::SCDB_caseID:: 1814-040
::decision_cite:: 12 U.S. 417 (1814)
::decision_name::  United States v. The Brigantine Mars
::decision_year:: 1814
::opinion_author:: 
::opinion_type:: 
::opinion:: 

U.S. Supreme CourtUnited States v. The Brigantine Mars, 12 U.S. 8 Cranch 417 417 (1814)
United States v. The Brigantine Mars
12 U.S. (8 Cranch) 417

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF MASSACHUSETTS DISTRICT
Syllabus 

															A forfeiture under the third section of the Act of 28 June, 1809, ch. 9, will overreach a bona fide sale to a purchaser for a valuable consideration without notice of the offense.

															This was an appeal from the sentence of the Circuit Court of Massachusetts District which affirmed the sentence of the district court restoring the brig to the claimants.

															An information was filed against the brig Mars for a breach of the Act of 28 June, 1809, entitled "An act to amend and continue in force certain parts of the act entitled An act to interdict the commercial intercourse, . . . '" in departing from port without having given bond according to the 3d section of the act, which provides that

															"If any ship or vessel shall, contrary to the provisions of this section depart from any port of the United States without clearance or without having given bond in the manner above mentioned, such ship or vessel, together with her cargo, shall be wholly forfeited."

															The vessel, after her return to the United States, and before seizure, was bona fide purchased by the claimants for a full and valuable consideration without notice of the offense.  Upon this ground she was by the decree of the district court ordered to be restored, which decree was affirmed by the circuit court.  Judge Story's opinion in pronouncing that decree will be found in the preceding case of United States v. 1960 Bags of Coffee, 12 U. S. 398.

															This case having been submitted upon the arguments which were had in that case,

															JOHNSON, J. delivered the opinion of the Court as follows:

															"This case depends upon the principle established in the case against the coffee, the Bohlens, claimants. "
															Page 12 U. S. 418

															The decision, as in that case, was founded upon the ground of a sale to a bona fide purchaser without notice.

															The decree of the Circuit Court of Massachusetts District in this case is therefore

															Reversed and the Brigantine Mars adjudged forfeited to the United States.

