::SCDB_caseID:: 2014-050
::decision_cite:: 13-1175
::decision_name::  Los Angeles v. Patel
::decision_year:: 2015
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 13–1175

															_________________

															CITY OF LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, PETITIONER v. NARANJIBHAI PATEL, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 22, 2015]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas joins, dissenting.

															After today, the city of Los Angeles can never, under any circumstances, enforce its 116-year-old requirement that hotels make their registers available to police officers.  That is because the Court holds that §41.49(3)(a) of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (2015) is facially unconstitutional.  Before entering a judgment with such serious safety and federalism implications, the Court must conclude that every application of this law is unconstitu-tional—i.e., that “ ‘no set of circumstances exists under which the [law] would be valid.’ ”  Ante, at 7 (quoting United States v. Salerno,

481 U. S. 739,
745 (1987)
).  I have doubts about the Court’s approach to administrative searches and closely regulated industries.  Ante, at 9–17.  But even if the Court were 100% correct, it still should uphold §41.49(3)(a) because many other applications of this law are constitutional.  Here are five examples.

															Example One.  The police have probable cause to believe that a register contains evidence of a crime.  They go to a judge and get a search warrant.  The hotel operator, however, refuses to surrender the register, but instead stashes it away.  Officers could tear the hotel apart looking for it.  Or they could simply order the operator to produce it.  The
 
Fourth Amendment does not create a right to defy a warrant.  Hence §41.49(3)(a) could be constitutionally applied in this scenario.  Indeed, the Court concedes that it is proper to apply a California obstruction of justice law in such a case.  See ante, at 8–9, n. 1; Brief for Respondents 49.  How could applying a city law with a similar effect be different?  No one thinks that overlapping laws are unconstitutional.  See, e.g., Yates v. United States, 574 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (Kagan, J. dissenting) (slip op., at 10–11) (“Overlap—even significant overlap—abounds in criminal law”) (collecting citations).  And a specific law gives more notice than a general law.

															In any event, the Los Angeles ordinance is arguably broader in at least one important respect than the California obstruction of justice statute on which the Court relies.  Ante, at 8–9, n.  1.  The state law applies when a person “willfully resists, delays, or obstructs any public officer . . . in the discharge or attempt to discharge any duty of his or her office.”  Cal. Penal Code Ann. §148(a)(1) (West 2014).  In the example set out above, suppose that the hotel operator, instead of hiding the register, simply refused to tell the police where it is located.  The Court cites no California case holding that such a refusal would be unlawful, and the city of Los Angeles submits that under California law, “[o]bstruction statutes prohibit a hotel owner from obstructing a search, but they do not require affirmative assistance.”  Reply Brief 5.  The Los Angeles ordinance, by contrast, unequivocally requires a hotel operator to make the register available on request.

															Example Two.  A murderer has kidnapped a woman with the intent to rape and kill her and there is reason to believe he is holed up in a certain motel.  The
 
Fourth Amendment’s reasonableness standard accounts for exigent circumstances.  See, e.g., Brigham City v. Stuart,

547 U. S. 398,
403 (2006)
.  When the police arrive, the motel operator folds her arms and says the register is locked in a safe.  Invoking §41.49(3)(a), the police order the operator to turn over the register.  She refuses.  The
 
Fourth Amendment does not protect her from arrest.

															Example Three.  A neighborhood of “pay by the hour” motels is a notorious gathering spot for child-sex traffickers.  Police officers drive through the neighborhood late one night and see unusual amounts of activity at a particular motel.  The officers stop and ask the motel operator for the names of those who paid with cash to rent rooms for less than three hours.  The operator refuses to provide the information.  Requesting to see the register—and arresting the operator for failing to provide it—would be reasonable under the “totality of the circumstances.”  Ohio v. Robinette,

519 U. S. 33,
39 (1996)
.  In fact, the Court has upheld a similar reporting duty against a
 
Fourth Amendment challenge where the scope of information required was also targeted and the public’s interest in crime prevention was no less serious.  See California Bankers Assn. v. Shultz,

416 U. S. 21
, n. 15, 66–67 (1974) (having “no difficulty” upholding a requirement that banks must provide reports about transactions involving more than $10,000, including the name, address, occupation, and social security number of the customer involved, along with a summary of the transaction, the amount of money at issue, and the type of identification presented).

															Example Four.  A motel is operated by a dishonest employee.  He has been charging more for rooms than he records, all the while pocketing the difference.  The owner finds out and eagerly consents to a police inspection of the register.  But when officers arrive and ask to see the register, the operator hides it.  The
 
Fourth Amendment does not allow the operator’s refusal to defeat the owner’s consent.  See, e.g., Mancusi v. DeForte,

392 U. S. 364
–370 (1968).  Accordingly, it would not violate the
 
Fourth Amendment to arrest the operator for failing to make the register “available to any officer of the Los Angeles Police Department for inspection.”  §41.49(3)(a).

															Example Five.  A “mom and pop” motel always keeps its old-fashioned guest register open on the front desk.  Anyone who wants to can walk up and leaf through it.  (Such motels are not as common as they used to be, but Los Angeles is a big place.)  The motel has no reasonable expectation of privacy in the register, and no one doubts that police officers—like anyone else—can enter into the lobby.  See, e.g., Florida v. Jardines,

569 U. S. 1
, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 6); Donovan v. Lone Steer, Inc.,

464 U. S. 408,
413 (1984)
.  But when an officer starts looking at the register, as others do, the motel operator at the desk snatches it away and will not give it back.  Arresting that person would not violate the
 
Fourth Amendment.

															These are just five examples.  There are many more.  The Court rushes past examples like these by suggesting that §41.49(3)(a) does no “work” in such scenarios.  Ante, at 8.  That is not true.  Under threat of legal sanction, this law orders hotel operators to do things they do not want to do.  To be sure, there may be circumstances in which §41.49(3)(a)’s command conflicts with the
 
Fourth Amendment, and in those circumstances the
 
Fourth Amendment is supreme.  See U. S. Const., Art VI, cl. 2.  But no different from any other local law, the remedy for such circumstances should be an as-applied injunction limited to the conflict with the
 
Fourth Amendment.  Such an injunction would protect a hotel from being “searched 10 times a day, every day, for three months, without any violation being found.”  Ante, at 11.  But unlike facial invalidation, an as-applied injunction does not produce collateral damage.  Section 41.49(3)(a) should be enforceable in those many cases in which the
 
Fourth Amendment is not violated.

															There are serious arguments that the
 
Fourth Amendment’s application to warrantless searches and seizures is inherently inconsistent with facial challenges.  See Sibron v. New York,

392 U. S. 40,
59,
62 (1968)
 (explaining that because of the
 
Fourth Amendment’s reasonableness requirement, “[t]he constitutional validity of a warrantless search is pre-eminently the sort of question which can only be decided in the concrete factual context of the individual case”); Brief for Manhattan Institute for Policy Research as Amicus Curiae 33 (“A constitutional claim under the first clause of the
 
Fourth Amendment is never a ‘facial’ challenge, because it is always and inherently a challenge to executive action”).  But assuming such facial challenges ever make sense conceptually, this particular one fails under basic principles of facial invalidation.  The Court’s contrary holding is befuddling.  I respectfully dissent.
													
