::SCDB_caseID:: 2014-055
::decision_cite:: 13-1499
::decision_name::  Williams-Yulee v. Florida Bar
::decision_year:: 2015
::opinion_author:: Ginsburg
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
															_________________
															No. 13–1499
															_________________
															LANELL WILLIAMS-YULEE, PETITIONER v.THE FLORIDA BAR
															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of florida
															[April 29, 2015]
															                    Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Breyer joins as to Part II, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.
															I
															                    I join the Court’s opinion save for Part II.  As explained in my dissenting opinion in Republican Party of Minnesota v. White,536 U. S. 765,803 (2002), I would not apply exacting scrutiny to a State’s endeavor sensibly to “differentiate elections for political offices . . . , from elections designed to select those whose office it is to administer justice without respect to persons,” id., at 805.
															II
															                    I write separately to reiterate the substantial latitude, in my view, States should possess to enact campaign-finance rules geared to judicial elections.  “Judges,” the Court rightly recognizes, “are not politicians,” ante, at 1, so “States may regulate judicial elections differently than they regulate political elections,” ante, at 10.  And because “the role of judges differs from the role of politicians,” ibid., this Court’s “precedents applying the First Amendment to political elections [should] have little bearing” on elections to judicial office.  Ante, at 11.
															                    The Court’s recent campaign-finance decisions, trained on political actors, should not hold sway for judicial elec-tions.  In Citizens United v. Federal Election Comm’n,558 U. S. 310 (2010), the Court invalidated a campaign-finance restriction designed to check the outsized influence of monied interests in politics.  Addressing the Government’s asserted interest in preventing “influence over or access to elected officials,” id., at 359, the Court observed that“[f]avoritism and influence” are inevitable “in representative politics.”  Ibid. (quoting McConnell v. Federal Elec-tion Comm’n,540 U. S. 93 (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in part); emphasis added).  A plurality of the Court responded similarly in McCutcheon v. Federal Election Comm’n, 572 U. S. ___ (2014), when it addressed the prospect that wealthy donors would have ready access to, and could therefore influence, elected policymakers.  “[A] central feature of democracy,” the plurality maintained, is “that constituents support candidates who share their beliefs and interests, and candidates who are elected can be expected to be responsive to those concerns.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 2).
															                    For reasons spelled out in the dissenting opinions in Citizens United and McCutcheon, I would have upheld the legislation there at issue.  But even if one agrees with those judgments, they are geared to elections for representative posts, and should have “little bearing” on judicial elections.  Ante, at 11.  “Favoritism,” i.e., partiality, if inevitable in the political arena, is disqualifying in the judiciary’s domain.  See Marshall v. Jerrico, Inc.,446 U. S. 238,242 (1980) (“The Due Process Clause entitles a person to an impartial and disinterested tribunal in both civil and criminal cases.”).  Unlike politicians, judges are not “expected to be responsive to [the] concerns” of constituents.  McCutcheon, 572 U. S., at ___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 2).  Instead, “it is the business of judges to be indifferent to popularity.”  Chisom v. Roemer,501 U. S. 380,401, n.29 (1991) (internal quotation marks omitted).
															                    States may therefore impose different campaign-finance rules for judicial elections than for political elections.  Experience illustrates why States may wish to do so.  When the political campaign-finance apparatus is applied to judicial elections, the distinction of judges from politicians dims.  Donors, who gain audience and influence through contributions to political campaigns, anticipate that investment in campaigns for judicial office will yield similar returns.  Elected judges understand this dynamic.  As Ohio Supreme Court Justice Paul Pfeifer put it: “Whether they succeed or not,” campaign contributors “mean to be buying a vote.”  Liptak & Roberts, Campaign Cash Mirrors a High Court’s Rulings, N. Y. Times, Oct. 1, 2006, pp. A1, A22 (internal quotation marks omitted).
															                    In recent years, moreover, issue-oriented organizations and political action committees have spent millions of dollars opposing the reelection of judges whose decisions do not tow a party line or are alleged to be out of step with public opinion.  Following the Iowa Supreme Court’s 2009 invalidation of the State’s same-sex marriage ban, for example, national organizations poured money into a successful campaign to remove three justices from that Court.  J. Shugerman, The People’s Courts: Pursuing Judicial Independence in America 3 (2012).  Attack advertisements funded by issue or politically driven organizations portrayed the justices as political actors; they lambasted the Iowa Supreme Court for “usurp[ing] the will of voters.”  A. Skaggs, M. da Silva, L. Casey, & C. Hall, The New Politics of Judicial Elections 2009–10, p. 9 (C. Hall ed. 2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).
															                    Similarly portraying judges as belonging to another political branch, huge amounts have been spent on advertisements opposing retention of judges because they rendered unpopular decisions in favor of criminal defendants.  D. Goldberg, S. Samis, E. Bender, & R. Weiss, The New Politics of Judicial Elections 2004, pp. 5, 10–11 (J. Rutledge ed. 2005) (hereinafter Goldberg).  In North Caro-lina, for example, in 2014, a political action committee aired “a widely condemned TV spot accusing [North Carolina Supreme Court Justice Robin] Hudson of being ‘soft’ on child-molesters.”  Oliphant, When Judges Go Courting, National Journal Magazine, Oct. 18, 2014, p. 28.  And in West Virginia, as described in Caperton v. A. T. Massey Coal Co.,556 U. S. 868,873 (2009), coal executive Don Blankenship lavishly funded a political action committee called “And For The Sake Of The Kids.”  That group bought advertisements accusing Justice Warren McGraw of freeing a “child rapist” and allowing that “rapist” to “work as a janitor at a West Virginia school.”  Goldberg 4; see A. Bannon, E. Velasco, L. Casey, & L. Reagan, The New Politics of Judicial Elections 2011–12, p. 22 (L. Kinney and P. Hardin eds. 2013) (reporting that in 2011 and 2012, interest-oriented groups were 22 times more likely to purchase an “attack” advertisement than were judicial candidates themselves).
															                    Disproportionate spending to influence court judgments threatens both the appearance and actuality of judicial independence.  Numerous studies report that the money pressure groups spend on judicial elections “can affect judicial decision-making across a broad range of cases.”  Brief for Professors of Law, Economics, and Political Science as Amici Curiae 14 (hereinafter Professors’ Brief), see id., at 5–17; J. Shepherd & M. Kang, Skewed Justice 1 (2014), available at http://skewedjustice.org (All Internet materials as visited Apr. 24, 2015, and included in Clerk of Court’s case file) (finding that a recent “explosion in spending on television attack advertisements . . . has made courts less likely to rule in favor of defendants in criminal appeals”).
															                    How does the electorate perceive outsized spending on judicial elections?  Multiple surveys over the past 13 years indicate that voters overwhelmingly believe direct contributions to judges’ campaigns have at least “some influ-ence” on judicial decisionmaking.  See Professors’ Brief23 (citing polls).  Disquieting as well, in responseto a recent poll, 87% of voters stated that advertisements purchased by interest groups during judicial electionscan have either “some” or “a great deal of influence” on an elected “judge’s later decisions.”  Justice at Stake/Brennan Center National Poll 3, Question 9 (Oct. 22–24,2013) (conducted by 20/20 Insight LLC), available at http://www.justiceatstake.org /file.cfm /media /news/toplines337_B2D51323DC5D0.pdf.
															                    “A State’s decision to elect its judges does not require it to tolerate these risks.”  Ante, at 12.  What may be true of happy families, L. Tolstoy, Anna Karenina 1 (R. Pevear and L. Volokhonsky transls. 2000) (“All happy families are alike”), or of roses, G. Stein, Sacred Emily, in Geography and Plays 178, 187 (1922) (reprint 1968) (“Rose is a rose is a rose is a rose”), does not hold true in elections of every kind.  States should not be put to the polar choices of either equating judicial elections to political elections, or else abandoning public participation in the selection of judges altogether.  Instead, States should have leeway to “balance the constitutional interests in judicial integrity and free expression within the unique setting of anelected judiciary.”  White, 536 U. S., at 821 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting).
													
