::SCDB_caseID:: 2014-022
::decision_cite:: 13-1041
::decision_name::  Perez v. Mortgage Bankers Ass'n
::decision_year:: 2015
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
															_________________
															Nos. 13–1041 and 13–1052
															_________________
															THOMAS E. PEREZ, SECRETARY OF LABOR, et al., PETITIONERS
															13–1041                    v.
															MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION et al.
															
															JEROME NICKOLS, et al., PETITIONERS
															13–1052                    v.
															MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION
															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit
															[March 9, 2015]
															                    Justice Scalia, concurring in the judgment.
															                    I agree with the Court’s decision, and all of its reasoning demonstrating the incompatibility of the D. C. Circuit’s Paralyzed Veterans holding with the Administrative Procedure Act.  Paralyzed Veterans of Am. v. D. C. Arena L.P., 117 F. 3d 579 (CADC 1997).  I do not agree, however, with the Court’s portrayal of the result it produces as a vindication of the balance Congress struck when it “weighed the costs and benefits of placing more rigorous . . . restrictions on the issuance of interpretive rules.”  Ante, at 9.  That depiction is accurate enough if one looks at this case in isolation.  Considered alongside our law of deference to administrative determinations, however, today’s decision produces a balance between power and procedure quite different from the one Congress chose when it enacted the APA.
															                    “The [APA] was framed against a background of rapid expansion of the administrative process as a check upon administrators whose zeal might otherwise have carried them to excesses not contemplated in legislation creating their offices.”  United States v. Morton Salt Co.,338 U. S. 632,644 (1950).  The Act guards against excesses in rulemaking by requiring notice and comment.  Before an agency makes a rule, it normally must notify the public of the proposal, invite them to comment on its shortcomings, consider and respond to their arguments, and explain its final decision in a statement of the rule’s basis and purpose.5 U. S. C. §553(b)–(c); ante, at 2.
															                    The APA exempts interpretive rules from these requirements.  §553(b)(A).  But this concession to agencies was meant to be more modest in its effects than it is today.  For despite exempting interpretive rules from notice and comment, the Act provides that “the reviewing courtshall . . . interpret constitutional and statutory provisions, and determine the meaning or applicability of the terms of an agency action.”  §706 (emphasis added).  The Act thus contemplates that courts, not agencies, will authoritatively resolve ambiguities in statutes and regulations.  In sucha regime, the exemption for interpretive rules does not add much to agency power.  An agency may use interpretive rules to advise the public by explaining its interpretation of the law.  But an agency may not use interpretive rules to bind the public by making law, because it remains the responsibility of the court to decide whether the law means what the agency says it means.
															                    Heedless of the original design of the APA, we have developed an elaborate law of deference to agencies’ interpretations of statutes and regulations.  Never mentioning §706’s directive that the “reviewing court . . . interpret . . . statutory provisions,” we have held that agencies may authoritatively resolve ambiguities in statutes.  Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,467 U. S. 837–843 (1984).  And never mentioning §706’s directive that the “reviewing court . . . determine the meaning or applicability of the terms of an agency action,” we have—relying on a case decided before the APA, Bowles v. Seminole Rock & Sand Co.,325 U. S. 410 (1945)—held that agencies may authoritatively resolve ambiguities in regulations.  Auer v. Robbins,519 U. S. 452,461 (1997).
															                    By supplementing the APA with judge-made doctrines of deference, we have revolutionized the import of interpretive rules’ exemption from notice-and-comment rulemaking.  Agencies may now use these rules not just to advise the public, but also to bind them.  After all, if an interpretive rule gets deference, the people are bound to obey it on pain of sanction, no less surely than they are bound to obey substantive rules, which are accorded similar deference.  Interpretive rules that command deference do have the force of law.
															                    The Court’s reasons for resisting this obvious point would not withstand a gentle breeze.  Even when an agency’s interpretation gets deference, the Court argues, “it is the court that ultimately decides whether [the text] means what the agency says.”  Ante, at 10–11, n. 4.  That is not quite so.  So long as the agency does not stray beyond the ambiguity in the text being interpreted, deference compels the reviewing court to “decide” that the text means what the agency says.  The Court continues that “deference is not an inexorable command in all cases,” because (for example) it does not apply to plainly erroneous interpretations.  Ibid.  True, but beside the point.  Saying all interpretive rules lack force of law because plainly erroneous interpretations do not bind courts is like saying all substantive rules lack force of law because arbitrary and capricious rules do not bind courts.  Of course an interpretive rule must meet certain conditions before it gets deference—the interpretation must, for instance, be reason-able—but once it does so it is every bit as binding as a substantive rule.  So the point stands: By deferring to interpretive rules, we have allowed agencies to make binding rules unhampered by notice-and-commentprocedures.
															                    The problem is bad enough, and perhaps insoluble if Chevron is not to be uprooted, with respect to interpretive rules setting forth agency interpretation of statutes.  But an agency’s interpretation of its own regulations is an-other matter.  By giving that category of interpretive rules Auer deference, we do more than allow the agency to make binding regulations without notice and comment.  Because the agency (not Congress) drafts the substantive rules that are the object of those interpretations, giving them deference allows the agency to control the extent of its notice-and-comment-free domain.  To expand this domain, the agency need only write substantive rules morebroadly and vaguely, leaving plenty of gaps to be filled in later, using interpretive rules unchecked by notice and comment.  The APA does not remotely contemplate this regime.
															                    Still and all, what are we to do about the problem?  The Paralyzed Veterans doctrine is a courageous (indeed, brazen) attempt to limit the mischief by requiring an interpretive rule to go through notice and comment if it revises an earlier definitive interpretation of a regulation.  That solution is unlawful for the reasons set forth in the Court’s opinion: It contradicts the APA’s unqualified exemption of interpretive rules from notice-and-comment rulemaking.
															                    But I think there is another solution—one unavailable to the D. C. Circuit since it involves the overruling of one this Court’s decisions (that being even a greater fault than merely ignoring the APA).  As I have described elsewhere, the rule of Chevron, if it did not comport with the APA, at least was in conformity with the long history of judicial review of executive action, where “[s]tatutory ambiguities . . . were left to reasonable resolution by the Executive.”  United States v. Mead Corp.,533 U. S. 218,243 (2001) (Scalia, J., dissenting).  I am unaware of any such history justifying deference to agency interpretations of its own regulations.  And there are weighty reasons to deny a lawgiver the power to write ambiguous laws and then be the judge of what the ambiguity means.  See Decker v. Northwest Environmental Defense Center, 568 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2013) (Scalia, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (slip op., at 1–7).  I would therefore restore the balance originally struck by the APA with respect to an agency’s interpretation of its own regulations, not by rewriting the Act in order to make up for Auer, but by abandoning Auer and applying the Act as written.  The agency is free to interpret its own regulations with or without notice and comment; but courts will decide—with no deference to the agency—whether that interpretation is correct.
													
