::SCDB_caseID:: 2014-021
::decision_cite:: 13-485
::decision_name::  Comptroller of Treasury of Md. v. Wynne
::decision_year:: 2015
::opinion_author:: Ginsburg
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 13–485

															_________________

															COMPTROLLER OF THE TREASURY OF MARYLAND, PETITIONER v. BRIAN WYNNE et ux.

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeals of maryland

															[May 18, 2015]

															

															Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Scalia and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															Today’s decision veers from a principle of interstate and international taxation repeatedly acknowledged by this Court: A nation or State “may tax all the income of its residents, even income earned outside the taxing jurisdiction.”  Oklahoma Tax Comm’n v. Chickasaw Nation,

515 U. S. 450
–463 (1995).  In accord with this principle, the Court has regularly rejected claims that taxes on a resident’s out-of-state income violate the Due Process Clause for lack of a sufficient “connection” to the taxing State.  Quill Corp. v. North Dakota,

504 U. S. 298,
306 (1992)
 (internal quotation marks omitted); see, e.g., Lawrence v. State Tax Comm’n of Miss.,

286 U. S. 276,
281 (1932)
.  But under dormant Commerce Clause jurisprudence, the Court decides, a State is not really empowered to tax a resident’s income from whatever source derived.  In taxing personal income, the Court holds, source-based authority, i.e., authority to tax commerce conducted within a State’s territory, boxes in the taxing authority of a taxpayer’s domicile.

															As I see it, nothing in the Constitution or in prior decisions of this Court dictates that one of two States, the domiciliary State or the source State, must recede simply because both have lawful tax regimes reaching the same income.  See Moorman Mfg. Co. v. Bair,

437 U. S. 267
, n. 12 (1978) (finding no “discriminat[ion] against interstate commerce” where alleged taxation disparities were “the consequence of the combined effect” of two otherwise lawful income-tax schemes).  True, Maryland elected to deny a credit for income taxes paid to other States in computing a resident’s county tax liability.  It is equally true, however, that the other States that taxed the Wynnes’ income elected not to offer them a credit for their Maryland county income taxes.  In this situation, the Constitution does not prefer one lawful basis for state taxation of a person’s income over the other.  Nor doesit require one State, in this case Maryland, to limit its residence-based taxation, should the State also choose to exercise, to the full extent, its source-based authority.  States often offer their residents credits for income taxes paid to other States, as Maryland does for state income tax purposes.  States do so, however, as a matter of tax “policy,” Chickasaw Nation, 515 U. S., at 463, n. 12 (internal quotation marks omitted), not because the Constitution compels that course.

															I

															For at least a century, “domicile” has been recognized as a secure ground for taxation of residents’ worldwide income.  Lawrence, 286 U. S., at 279.  “Enjoyment of the privileges of residence within [a] state, and the attendant right to invoke the protection of its laws,” this Court has explained, “are inseparable from the responsibility for sharing the costs of government.”  Ibid.  “A tax measured by the net income of residents is an equitable method of distributing the burdens of government among those who are privileged to enjoy its benefits.”  New York ex rel. Cohn v. Graves,

300 U. S. 308,
313 (1937)
.

															More is given to the residents of a State than to those who reside elsewhere, therefore more may be demanded of them.  With this Court’s approbation, States have long favored their residents over nonresidents in the provision of local services.  See Reeves, Inc. v. Stake,

447 U. S. 429,
442 (1980)
 (such favoritism does not violate the Commerce Clause).  See also Martinez v. Bynum,

461 U. S. 321 (1983)
 (upholding residency requirements for free primary and secondary schooling).  The cost of services residents enjoy is substantial.  According to the State’s Comptroller, for example, in 2012 Maryland and its local governments spent over $11 billion to fund public schools, $4 billion for state health programs, and $1.1 billion for the State’s food supplemental program—all programs available to residents only.  Brief for Petitioner 20–23.  See also Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 18 (Howard County—where the Wynnes lived in 2006—budgeted more than $903 million for education in fiscal year 2014).  Excluding nonresidents from these services, this Court has observed, is rational for it is residents “who fund the state treasury and whom the State was created to serve.”  Reeves, 447 U. S., at 442. A taxpayer’s home State, then, can hardly be faulted for making support of local government activities an obligation of every resident, regardless of any obligations residents may have to other States.[1]

															Residents, moreover, possess political means, not shared by outsiders, to ensure that the power to tax their income is not abused.  “It is not,” this Court has observed, “a purpose of the Commerce Clause to protect state residents from their own state taxes.”  Goldberg v. Sweet,

488 U. S. 252,
266 (1989)
.  The reason is evident.  Residents are “insider[s] who presumably [are] able to complain about and change the tax through the [State’s] political process.”  Ibid.  Nonresidents, by contrast, are not similarly positioned to “effec[t] legislative change.”  Ibid. As Chief Justice Marshall, developer of the Court’s Commerce Clause jurisprudence, reasoned: “In imposing a tax the legislature acts upon its constituents.  This is in general a sufficient security against erroneous and oppressive taxation.”  McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 428 (1819).  The “people of a State” can thus “res[t] confidently on the interest of the legislator, and on the influence of the constituents over their representative, to guard them against . . . abuse” of the “right of taxing themselves and their property.”  Ibid.[2]

															I hardly maintain, as the majority insistently asserts I do, that “the Commerce Clause places no constraint on a State’s power to tax” its residents.  Ante, at 13.  See also ante, at 11–15.  This Court has not shied away from striking down or closely scrutinizing state efforts to tax residents at a higher rate for out-of-state activities than for in-state activities (or to exempt from taxation only in-state activities).  See, e.g., Department of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis,

553 U. S. 328,
336 (2008)
; Camps Newfound/ Owatonna, Inc. v. Town of Harrison,

520 U. S. 564
(1997); Fulton Corp. v. Faulkner,

516 U. S. 325 (1996)
; Bacchus Imports, Ltd. v. Dias,

468 U. S. 263,
272 (1984)
.  See also ante, at 11, and n. 3, 14–15 (mistakenly charging that under my analysis “all of these cases would be thrown into doubt”).  “[P]olitical processes” are ill equipped to guard against such facially discriminatory taxes because the effect of a tax of this sort is to “mollif[y]” some of the “in-state interests [that] would otherwise lobby against” it.  West Lynn Creamery, Inc. v. Healy,

512 U. S. 186,
200 (1994)
.  By contrast, the Court has generally upheld “evenhanded tax[es] . . . in spite of any adverse effects oninterstate commerce, in part because ‘[t]he existence of major in-state interests adversely affected . . . is a powerful safeguard against legislative abuse.’ ”  Ibid. (citing, inter alia, Goldberg, 488 U. S., at 266).  That justification applies with full force to the “evenhanded tax” challenged here, which taxes residents’ income at the same rate whether earned in-state or out-of-state.[3]

															These rationales for a State taxing its residents’ worldwide income are not diminished by another State’s independent interest in “requiring contributions from [nonresidents] who realize current pecuniary benefits under the protection of the [State’s] government.”  Shaffer v. Carter,

252 U. S. 37,
51 (1920)
.  A taxpayer living in one State and working in another gains protection and benefits from both—and so can be called upon to share in the costs of both States’ governments.

															States deciding whether to tax residents’ entire worldwide income must choose between legitimate but competing tax policy objectives.  A State might prioritize obtaining equal contributions from those who benefit from the State’s protection in roughly similar ways.  Or a State might prioritize ensuring that its taxpayers are not subject to double taxation.  A State cannot, however, accomplish both objectives at once.

															To illustrate, consider the Wynnes.  Under the tax scheme in place in 2006, other Howard County residents who earned their income in-state but who otherwise had the same tax profile as the Wynnes (e.g., $2.67 million in taxable net income) owed the same amount of taxes to Maryland as the Wynnes.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. A–56.  The scheme thus ensured that all residents with similar access to the State’s protection and benefits and similar ability to pay made equal contributions to the State to defray the costs of those benefits.  Maryland could not achieve that objective, however, without exposing the Wynnes to a risk of double taxation.  Conversely, the Court prioritizes reducing the risk that the Wynnes’ income will be taxed twice by two different States.  But that choice comes at a cost: The Wynnes enjoyed equal access to the State’s services but will have paid $25,000 less to cover the costs of those services than similarly situated neighbors who earned their income entirely within the State.  See Pet. for Cert. 15.

															States confront the same trade-off when deciding whether to tax nonresidents’ entire in-state income.  A State can require all residents and nonresidents who work within the State under its protection to contribute equally to the cost of that protection.  Or the State can seek to avoid exposing its workers to any risk of double taxation.  But it cannot achieve both objectives.

															For at least a century, responsibility for striking the right balance between these two policy objectives has belonged to the States (and Congress), not this Court.  Some States have chosen the same balance the Court embraces today.  See ante, at 17.  But since almost the dawn of the modern era of state income taxation, other States have taken the same approach as Maryland does now, taxing residents’ entire income, wherever earned, while at the same time taxing nonresidents’ entire in-state income.  And recognizing that “[p]rotection, benefit, and power over [a taxpayer’s income] are not confined to either” the State of residence or the State in which income is earned, this Court has long afforded States that flexibility.  Curry v. McCanless,

307 U. S. 357,
368 (1939)
.  This history of States imposing and this Court upholding income tax schemes materially identical to the one the Court confronts here should be the beginning and end of this case.

															The modern era of state income taxation dates from a Wisconsin tax enacted in 1911.  See 1911 Wis. Laws ch. 658; R. Blakey, State Income Taxation 1 (1930).  From close to the start of this modern era, States have taxed residents and nonresidents in ways materially indistinguishable from the way Maryland does now.  In 1915, for example, Oklahoma began taxing residents’ “entire net income . . . arising or accruing from all sources,” while at the same time taxing nonresidents’ “entire net income from [sources] in th[e] State.”  1915 Okla. Sess. Laws ch. 164, §1, pp. 232–233 (emphasis added).  Like Maryland today, Oklahoma provided no credit to either residents or nonresidents for taxes paid elsewhere.  See id., ch. 164, §1 et seq., at 232–237.  In 1917, neighboring Missouri adopted a similar scheme: Residents owed taxes on their “entire net income . . . from all sources” and nonresidents owed taxes on their “entire net income . . . from all sources within th[e] state.”  1917 Mo. Laws §1(a), pp. 524–525 (emphasis added).  Missouri too provided neither residents nor nonresidents a credit for taxes paid to other jurisdic-tions.  See id., §1 et seq., at 524–538.  Thus, much like Maryland today, these early income tax adopters simultaneously taxed residents on all income, wherever earned, and nonresidents on all income earned within the State.[4]

															Almost immediately, this Court began issuing what became a long series of decisions, repeatedly upholding States’ authority to tax both residents’ worldwide income and nonresidents’ in-state income.  E.g., Maguire v. Trefry,

253 U. S. 12,
17 (1920)
 (resident income tax); Shaffer, 252 U. S., at 52–53, 57 (nonresident income tax).  See also State Tax Comm’n of Utah v. Aldrich,

316 U. S. 174,
178 (1942)
; Curry, 307 U. S., at 368; Guaranty Trust Co. v. Virginia,

305 U. S. 19,
23 (1938)
; Graves, 300 U. S., at 313; Lawrence, 286 U. S., at 281.  By the end of the 20th cen-tury, it was “a well-established principle of interstate and international taxation” that “sovereigns have authority to tax all income of their residents, including income earned outside their borders,” Chickasaw Nation, 515 U. S., at 462, 463, n. 12, and that sovereigns generally may also tax nonresidents on “income earned within the [sovereign’s] jurisdiction,” id., at 463, n. 11.

															Far from suggesting that States must choose between taxing residents or nonresidents, this Court specifically affirmed that the exact same “income may be taxed [si-multaneously] both by the state where it is earned and by the state of the recipient’s domicile.”  Curry, 307 U. S., at 368 (emphasis added).  See also Aldrich, 316 U. S., at 176–178, 181 (rejecting “a rule of immunity from taxation by more than one state,” including with respect to income taxation (internal quotation marks omitted)).  In Lawrence, for example, this Court dealt with a Mississippi tax “scheme” with the same structure Maryland has today: Mississippi taxed residents on all income, wherever earned, and nonresidents on income earned within the State, without providing either set of taxpayers a credit for taxes paid elsewhere.  See 286 U. S., at 278–279; Miss. Code Ann. §5033(a), (b)(9) (1930).  Lawrence upheld a Mississippi tax on net income earned by one of its residents on the construction of public highways in Tennessee.  See 286 U. S., at 279–281.  The Court did so fully aware that both Mississippi and Tennessee were effectively imposing “an income tax upon the same occupation.”  Reply Brief in Lawrence v. State Tax Comm’n of Miss., O. T. 1931, No. 580, p. 32.  See also Curry, 307 U. S., at 363, n. 1, 368 (discussing Lawrence).

															Likewise, in Guaranty Trust, both New York and Vir-ginia had taxed income of a New York trust that had been distributed to a Virginia resident.  305 U. S., at 21–22.  The resident sought to block Virginia’s tax in order to avoid “double taxation” of the “identical income.”  Id., at 22.  Rejecting that challenge, the Court once again reiterated that “two States” may simultaneously tax the “same income.”  Ibid.

															The majority deems these cases irrelevant because they involved challenges brought under the Due Process Clause, not the Commerce Clause.  See ante, at 12–15.  These cases are significant, however, not because the constraints imposed by the two Clauses are identical.  Obviously, they are not.  See Quill Corp., 504 U. S., at 305.  What the sheer volume and consistency of this precedent confirms, rather, is the degree to which this Court has—until now—endorsed the “well-established principle of interstate and international taxation” that a State may tax its residents’ worldwide income, without restriction arising from the source-based taxes imposed by other States and regardless of whether the State also chooses to impose source-based taxes of its own.  Chickasaw Nation, 515 U. S., at 462.[5]

															In any event, it is incorrect that support for this principle is limited to the Court’s Due Process Clause cases.  In Shaffer, for example, this Court rejected both a Due Process Clause challenge and a dormant Commerce Clause challenge to an income tax “scheme” (the Oklahoma statute described above) with the very features the majority latches onto today: Oklahoma taxed residents on all worldwide income and nonresidents on all in-state income, without providing a credit for taxes paid elsewhere to either residents or nonresidents.  252 U. S., at 52–53 (Due Process challenge); id., at 57 (dormant Commerce Clause challenge).  See also supra, at 7.  The specific tax challenged in Shaffer—a tax on a nonresident’s in-state income—exposed taxpayers to the same risk of double taxation as the Maryland tax challenged in this case.  The majority labors mightily to distinguish Shaffer, but it does not dispute the one thing that ought to give it pause: Today’s decision overrules Shaffer’s dormant Commerce Clause holding.  See ante, at 15–16.  I would not discard our precedents so lightly.  Just as the tax in Shaffer encountered no constitutional shoals, so Maryland’s scheme should survive the Court’s inspection.

															This Court’s decision in West Publishing Co. v. McColgan,

328 U. S. 823 (1946)
, reinforces that conclusion.  In West Publishing, the Court summarily affirmed a decision of the California Supreme Court that denied a dormant Commerce Clause challenge based on the principles today’s majority disrespects: 

															“[T]here [is no] merit to the contention that [California’s tax] discriminates against interstate commerce on the ground that it subjects part of plaintiff’s income to double taxation, given the taxability of plaintiff’s entire net income in the state of its domicile.  Taxation in one state is not an immunization against taxation in other states.  Taxation by states in which a corporation carries on business activities is justified by the advantages that attend the pursuit of such activities.  Income may be taxed both by the state where it is earned and by the state of the recipient’s domicile.  Protection, benefit and power over the subject matter are not confined to either state.”  27 Cal. 2d 705, 710–711, 166 P. 2d 861, 864 (1946) (citations and internal quotation marks omitted).

															In treating the matter summarily, the Court rejected an argument strikingly similar to the one the majority now embraces: that California’s tax violated the dormant Commerce Clause because it subjected “interstate commerce . . . to the risk of a double tax burden.”  Brief for Appellant Opposing Motion to Dismiss or Affirm in West Publishing Co. v. McColgan, O. T. 1945, No. 1255, pp. 20–21 (quoting J. D. Adams Mfg. Co. v. Storen,

304 U. S. 307,
311 (1938)
).

															The long history just recounted counsels in favor of respecting States’ authority to tax without discount its residents’ worldwide income.  As Justice Holmes stated over a century ago, in regard to a “mode of taxation . . . of long standing, . . . the fact that the system has been in force for a very long time is of itself a strong reason . . . for leaving any improvement that may be desired to the legislature.”  Paddell v. City of New York,

211 U. S. 446,
448 (1908)
.  Only recently, this Court followed that sound advice in resisting a dormant Commerce Clause challenge to a taxing practice with a pedigree as enduring as the practice in this case.  See Department of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis,

553 U. S. 328
–357 (2008) (quoting Padell, 211 U. S., at 448).  Surely that advice merits application here, where the challenged tax draws support from both historical practice and numerous decisions of this Court.

															The majority rejects Justice Holmes’ counsel, observing that most States, over time, have chosen not to exercise plenary authority to tax residents’ worldwide income.  See ante, at 17–18.  The Court, however, learns the wrong lesson from the “independent policy decision[s]” States have made.  Chickasaw, 515 U. S., at 463, n. 12 (emphasis added; internal quotation marks omitted).  This history demonstrates not that States “doub[t]” their “constitutiona[l]” authority to tax residents’ income, wherever earned, as the majority speculates, ante, at 18, but that the very political processes the Court disregards as “fanciful,” ante, at 12, have in fact worked to produce policies the Court ranks as responsible—all the more reason to resist this Court’s heavy-handed supervision.

															The Court also attempts to deflect the force of this his-tory and precedent by relying on a “trilogy” of decisions it finds “particularly instructive.”  Ante, at 6–7 (citing Central Greyhound Lines, Inc. v. Mealey,

334 U. S. 653 (1948)
; Gwin, White & Prince, Inc. v. Henneford,

305 U. S. 434 (1939)
; J. D. Adams Mfg.,

304 U. S. 307
).  As the majority acknowledges, however, those three decisions involved gross receipts taxes, not income taxes.  Ante, at 7–9.  True, this Court has recently pointed to similarities between these two forms of taxation.  See ante, at 9.  But it is an indulgence in wishful thinking to say that this Court has previously “rejected the argument that the Commerce Clause distinguishes between” these taxes.  Ante, at 9.  For decades—including the years when the majority’s “trilogy” was decided—the Court has routinely maintained that “the difference between taxes on net income and taxes on gross receipts from interstate commerce warrants different results” under the Commerce Clause.  C. Trost & P. Hartman, Federal Limitations on State and Local Taxation 2d §10:1 (2003).

															In Shaffer, for example, the Court rejected the taxpayer’s dormant Commerce Clause challenge because “the tax [was] imposed not upon gross receipts . . . but only upon the net proceeds.” 252 U. S., at 57.  Just three years before deciding J. D. Adams, the Court emphasized “manifest and substantial” differences between the two types of taxes, calling the burden imposed by a gross receipts tax “direct and immediate,” in contrast to the “indirect and incidental” burden imposed by an income tax.  Stewart Dry Goods Co. v. Lewis,

294 U. S. 550,
558 (1935)
 (quoting United States Glue Co. v. Town of Oak Creek,

247 U. S. 321,
328 (1918)
).  And the Gwin, White opinion observed that invalidating the gross receipts tax at issue “left to the states wide scope for taxation of those engaged in interstate commerce, extending to . . . net income derived from it.”  305 U. S., at 441 (emphasis added).

															The majority asserts that this Court “rejected” this distinction in Moorman Mfg.  See ante, at 9.  That decision in fact described gross receipts taxes as “more burdensome” than income taxes—twice.  437 U. S., at 280, 281.  In particular, Moorman upheld a state income tax because an earlier decision had upheld a similar but “inherently more burdensome” gross receipts tax.  Id., at 281.  To say that the constitutionality of an income tax follows a fortiori from the constitutionality of a similar but “more burdensome” gross receipts tax is to affirm, not reject, a distinction between the two.

															The Justices participating in the Court’s “trilogy,” in short, would scarcely expect to see the three decisions invoked to invalidate a tax on net income.

															II

															Abandoning principles and precedent sustaining simultaneous residence- and source-based income taxation, the Court offers two reasons for striking down Maryland’s county income tax: (1) the tax creates a risk of double taxation, ante, at 7, 18; and (2) the Court deems Maryland’s income tax “scheme” “inherently discriminatory”—by which the Court means, the scheme fails the so-called “internal consistency” test, ante, at 21–22.  The first objection is overwhelmed by the history, recounted above, of States imposing and this Court upholding income taxes that carried a similar risk of double taxation.  See supra, at 6–12.  The Court’s reliance on the internal consistency test is no more compelling.

															This Court has not rigidly required States to maintain internally consistent tax regimes.  Before today, for two decades, the Court has not insisted that a tax under review pass the internal consistency test, see Oklahoma Tax Comm’n v. Jefferson Lines, Inc.,

514 U. S. 175,
185 (1995)
, and has not struck down a state tax for failing the test in nearly 30 years, see American Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Scheiner,

483 U. S. 266
–287 (1987) (ATA I); Tyler Pipe Industries, Inc. v. Washington State Dept. of Revenue,

483 U. S. 232
–248 (1987).  Moreover, the Court has rejected challenges to taxes that flunk the test.  The Oklahoma tax “scheme” upheld under the dormant Commerce Clause in Shaffer, for example, is materially indistinguishable from—therefore as internally inconsistent as—Maryland’s scheme.  252 U. S., at 57.  And more recently, in American Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Michigan Pub. Serv. Comm’n, the Court upheld a “concede[dly]” internally inconsistent state tax.

545 U. S. 429,
438 (2005)
 (ATA II).  The Court did so, satisfied that there was a sufficiently close connection between the tax at issue and the local conduct that triggered the tax.  See ibid.[6]

															The logic of ATA II, counsel for the Wynnes appeared to recognize, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 46–47, would permit a State to impose a head tax—i.e., a flat charge imposed on every resident in the State—even if that tax were part of an internally inconsistent tax scheme.  Such a tax would rest on purely local conduct: the taxpayer’s residence in the taxing State.  And the taxes paid would defray costsclosely connected to that local conduct—the services used by the taxpayer while living in the State.

															I see no reason why the Constitution requires us to disarm States from using a progressive tax, rather than a flat toll, to cover the costs of local services all residents enjoy.  A head tax and a residence-based income tax differ, do they not, only in that the latter is measured by each taxpayer’s ability to pay.  Like the head tax, however, a residence-based income tax is triggered by the purely local conduct of residing in the State.  And also like the head tax, a residence-based income tax covers costs closely connected to that residence: It finances services used by those living in the State.  If a head tax qualifies for ATA II’s reprieve from internal consistency, then so too must a residence-based income tax.

															The majority asserts that because Maryland’s tax scheme is internally inconsistent, it “operates as a tariff,” making it “ ‘patently unconstitutional.’ ”  Ante, at 22.  This is a curious claim.  The defining characteristic of a tariff is that it taxes interstate activity at a higher rate than it taxes the same activity conducted within the State.  See West Lynn Creamery, 512 U. S., at 193.  Maryland’s resident income tax does the exact opposite: It taxes the income of its residents at precisely the same rate, whether the income is earned in-state or out-of-state.[7]

															There is, moreover, a deep flaw in the Court’s chosen test.  The Court characterizes internal consistency as a “cure,” ante, at 18, 25–26, but the test is scarcely that, at least for the double taxation the Court believes to justify its intervention.  According to the Court, Maryland’s tax “scheme” is internally inconsistent because Maryland simultaneously imposes two taxes: the county income tax and the special nonresident tax.  See ante, at 7, 21–22, and n. 8.  But only one of these taxes—the county income tax—actually falls on the Wynnes.  Because it is the interaction between these two taxes that renders Maryland’s tax scheme internally inconsistent, Maryland could eliminate the inconsistency by terminating the special nonresident tax—a measure that would not help the Wynnes at all.[8]  Maryland could, in other words, bring itself into compliance with the test at the heart of the Court’s analysis without removing the double tax burden the test is pur-portedly designed to “cure.”

															To illustrate this oddity, consider the Court’s “simple example” of April (who lives and works in State A) and Bob (who lives in State A, but works in State B).  Ante, at 21–22, 25.  Both States fail the internal consistency test because they impose (1) a 1.25% tax on income that residents earn in-state, (2) a 1.25% tax on income that residents earn in other jurisdictions, and (3) a 1.25% tax on income that nonresidents earn in-state.  According to the Court, these tax schemes are troubling because “Bob will pay more income tax than April solely because he earns income interstate.”  Ante, at 22.

															Each State, however, need not pursue the same approach to make their tax schemes internally consistent.[9]  See ante, at 25–26.  State A might choose to tax residents’ worldwide income only, which it could do by eliminating tax #3 (on nonresidents’ in-state income).  State B might instead choose exclusively to tax income earned within the State by deleting tax #2 (on residents’ out-of-state income).  Each State’s tax scheme would then be internally consistent.  But the tax burden on April and Bob would remain unchanged: Just as under the original schemes, April would have to pay a 1.25% tax only once, to State A, and Bob would have to pay a 1.25% tax twice: once to State A, where he resides, and once to State B, where he earns the income.  The Court’s “cure,” in other words, is no match for the perceived disease.[10]

															The Court asserts that this flaw is just a “truism” of every discrimination case, whether brought under the dormant Commerce Clause or the Equal Protection Clause.  Ante, at 26.  That is simply incorrect.  As the Court acknowledges, a government that impermissibly “treats like cases differently” (i.e., discriminates) can ordinarily cure the violation either by “leveling up” or “leveling down.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).  Consider another April and Bob example.  If Bob must pay a 10% tax and April must pay a 5% tax, that discrimination can be eliminated either by requiring both to pay the 10% tax (“leveling up”) or by requiring both to pay the 5% tax (“leveling down”).  True, “leveling up” leaves Bob’s tax bill unchanged.  “Leveling up” nonetheless benefits Bob because it eliminates the unfairness of being treated differently.  And if, as is often true in dormant Commerce Clause cases, April and Bob compete in the same market, then “leveling up” provides the concrete benefit of placing a new burden on Bob’s competitors.

															The majority’s rule does not work this way.  As just explained, Maryland can “cure” what the majority deems discrimination without lowering the Wynnes’ taxes or increasing the tax burden on any of the Wynnes’ neighbors—by terminating the special nonresident tax.  See supra, at 16–17.  The State can, in other words, satisfy the majority not by lowering Bob’s taxes or by raising April’s taxes, but by eliminating the taxes imposed on yet a third taxpayer (say, Cathy).  The Court’s internal consis-tency test thus scarcely resembles “ordinary” anti-discrimination law.  Whatever virtue the internal consistency test has in other contexts, this shortcoming makes it a poor excuse for jettisoning taxation principles as entrenched as those here.

															*  *  *

															This case is, at bottom, about policy choices: Should States prioritize ensuring that all who live or work within the State shoulder their fair share of the costs of government?  Or must States prioritize avoidance of double taxation?  As I have demonstrated, supra, at 16–19, achieving even the latter goal is beyond this Court’s competence.  Resolving the competing tax policy considerations this case implicates is something the Court is even less well equipped to do.  For a century, we have recognized that state legislatures and the Congress are constitutionally assigned and institutionally better equipped to balance such issues.  I would reverse, so that we may leave that task where it belongs.Notes

1


		 The Court offers no response to this reason for permitting a State to tax its residents’ worldwide income, other than to urge that Commerce Clause doctrine ought not favor corporations over individuals.  See ante, at 10–11.  I scarcely disagree with that proposition (nor does this opinion suggest otherwise).  But I fail to see how it answers, or is even relevant to, my observation that affording residents greater benefits entitles a State to require that they bear a greater tax burden.
	


2


		 The majority dismisses what we said in Goldberg v. Sweet,

488 U. S. 252 (1989)
, as “dictum” allegedly “repudiated” by the Court in West Lynn Creamery, Inc. v. Healy,

512 U. S. 186,
203 (1994)
.  Ante, at 11–12.  That is doubly wrong.  In Goldberg, we distinguished the tax struck down in American Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Scheiner,

483 U. S. 266 (1987)
 (ATA I), noting, in particular, that the tax in ATA I fell on “out-of-state[rs]” whereas the tax in Goldberg fell on “the insider who presumably is able to complain about and change the tax through the Illinois political process.”  488 U. S., at 266.  Essential to our holding, this rationale cannot be written off as “dictum.”  As for West Lynn Creamery, far from “repudiat[ing]” Goldberg, the Court cited Goldberg and reaffirmed its political safeguards rationale, as explained below.  See infra this page and 5.
	


3


		 Given the pedigree of this rationale, applying it here would hardly “work a sea change in our Commerce Clause jurisprudence.”  Ante, at 14.  See United Haulers Assn., Inc. v. Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Management Authority,

550 U. S. 330
, n. 7 (2007); Goldberg, 488 U. S., at 266; Minnesota v. Clover Leaf Creamery Co.,

449 U. S. 456
, n. 17 (1981); Raymond Motor Transp., Inc. v. Rice,

434 U. S. 429,
444, n.
18 (1978)
; South Carolina Highway Dept. v. Barnwell Brothers, Inc.,

303 U. S. 177,
187 (1938)
.  Nor would applying the rationale to a net income tax cast “doubt” on the Court’s gross receipts precedents, ante, at 14–15, given the Court’s longstanding practice of evaluating income and gross receipt taxes differently, see infra, at 12–14.
	


4


		 Unlike Maryland’s county income tax, these early 20th-century income taxes allowed a deduction for taxes paid to other jurisdictions.  Compare App. 18 with 1917 Mo. Laws §5, pp. 526–527, and 1915 Okla. Sess. Laws §6, p. 234.  The Wynnes have not argued and the majority does not suggest, however, that Maryland could fully cure the asserted defects in its tax “scheme” simply by providing a deduction, in lieu of a tax credit.  And I doubt that such a deduction would give the Wynnes much satisfaction: Deducting taxes paid to other States from the Wynnes’ $2.67 million taxable net income would reduce their Maryland tax burden by a small fraction of the $25,000 tax credit the majority awards them.  See Pet. for Cert. 15; App. to Pet. for Cert. A–56.
	


5


		 Upholding Maryland’s facially neutral tax hardly means, as the majority contends, ante, at 12, that the dormant Commerce Clause places no limits on States’ authority to tax residents’ worldwide income.  There are, for example, no well-established principles of interstate and international taxation permitting the kind of facially discriminatory tax the majority “[i]magine[s]” a State enacting.  Ibid.  Nor are the political processes noted above an adequate safeguard against such a tax.  See supra, at 3–5.
	


6


		 The majority reads American Trucking Assns., Inc. v. Michigan Pub. Serv. Comm’n,

545 U. S. 429 (2005)
 (ATA II), in a way so implausible, it must resort to quoting from an amicus brief, rather than from the Court’s opinion.  According to the majority, this Court did not think the challenged tax failed the internal consistency test in ATA II, it held only that the challengers had failed to make the necessary “empirical showing.”  See ante, at 20–21, n. 7.  It is true that the United States made that argument.  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in ATA II, O. T. 2004, No. 03–1230, p. 26.  But one searches the U. S. Reports in vain for any indication that the Court adopted it.  Which is hardly surprising, for one would scarcely think that a test turning on “hypothetically” assessing a tax’s “structure,” ante, at 19 (emphasis added), would require empirical data.  What the Court in fact said in ATA II, is that the tax’s internal inconsistency would be excused because any multiple taxation resulting from every State adopting the challenged tax would be caused by interstate firms’ choosing to “engag[e] in local business in all those States.”  545 U. S., at 438.
	


7


		 The majority faults the dissents for not “disput[ing]” its “economic analysis,” but beyond citation to a pair of amicus briefs, its opinion offers no analysis to dispute.  Ante, at 22.
	


8


		 Or Maryland could provide nonresidents a credit for taxes paid to other jurisdictions on Maryland source income.  Cf. ante, at 25–26.
	


9


		 I do not “clai[m]” as the Court groundlessly suggests, that the Court’s analysis “establish[es] . . . [a] rule of priority” between residence- and source-based taxation.  Ante, at 25–26.  My objection, rather, is that the Court treats source-based authority as “box[ing] in” a State’s discrete authority to tax on the basis of residence.  Supra, at 1.   There is no “inconsisten[cy]” in my analysis, and the majority plainly errs in insisting that there is.  Ante, at 25.
	


10


		 Attempting to preserve the test’s qualification as a “cure,” the Court redefines the illness as not just double taxation but double taxation caused by an “inherently discriminat[ory]” tax “scheme.”  Ante, at 19–20.  Relying on such a distinction to justify the test is entirely circular, however, as the Court defines “inherent discrimination” in this case as internal inconsistency.  In any event, given the concern that purportedly drives the Court’s analysis, it is mystifying why the Court sees “virtue” in striking down only one of the two schemes under which Bob is taxed twice.  Ante, at 19.  Whatever disincentive the original scheme creates for Bob (or the Wynnes) to work in interstate commerce is created just as much by the revised scheme that the Court finds satisfactory.
	


