::SCDB_caseID:: 2014-037
::decision_cite:: 13-502
::decision_name::  Reed v. Town of Gilbert
::decision_year:: 2015
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 13–502

															_________________

															CLYDE REED, et al., PETITIONERS v.
TOWN OF GILBERT, ARIZONA, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 18, 2015]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Ginsburg and
Justice Breyer join, concurring in the judgment.

															Countless cities and towns across America have
adopted ordinances regulating the posting of signs, while exempting
certain categories of signs based on their subject matter. For
example, some municipalities generally prohibit illuminated signs
in residential neighborhoods, but lift that ban for signs that
identify the address of a home or the name of its owner or
occupant. See, e.g., City of Truth or Consequences,
N. M., Code of Ordinances, ch. 16, Art. XIII,
§§11–13–2.3, 11–13–2.9(H)(4)
(2014). In other municipalities, safety signs such as “Blind
Pedestrian Crossing” and “Hidden Driveway” can be
posted without a permit, even as other permanent signs require one.
See, e.g., Code of Athens-Clarke County, Ga., Pt. III,
§7–4–7(1) (1993). Elsewhere, historic site
markers—for example, “George Washington Slept
Here”—are also exempt from general regulations. See,
e.g., Dover, Del., Code of Ordinances, Pt. II, App. B, Art.
5, §4.5(F) (2012). And simi-larly, the federal Highway
Beautification Act limits signs along interstate highways unless,
for instance, they direct travelers to “scenic and historical
attractions” or advertise free coffee. See 23 U. S. C.
§§131(b), (c)(1), (c)(5).

															Given the Court’s analysis, many sign
ordinances of that kind are now in jeopardy. See ante, at 14
(acknowledging that “entirely reasonable” sign laws
“will sometimes be struck down” under its approach
(internal quotation marks omitted)). Says the majority: When laws
“single[ ] out specific subject matter,” they are
“facially content based”; and when they are facially
content based, they are automatically subject to strict scrutiny.
Ante, at 12, 16–17. And although the majority holds
out hope that some sign laws with subject-matter exemptions
“might survive” that stringent review, ante, at
17, the likelihood is that most will be struck down. After all, it
is the “rare case[ ] in which a speech restriction
withstands strict scrutiny.” Williams-Yulee v.
Florida Bar, 575 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 9). To
clear that high bar, the government must show that a content-based
distinction “is necessary to serve a compelling state
interest and is narrowly drawn to achieve that end.”
Arkansas Writers’ Project, Inc. v. Ragland, 481
U. S. 221, 231 (1987) . So on the majority’s view,
courts would have to determine that a town has a compelling
interest in informing passersby where George Washington slept. And
likewise, courts would have to find that a town has no other way to
prevent hidden-driveway mishaps than by specially treating
hidden-driveway signs. (Well-placed speed bumps? Lower speed
limits? Or how about just a ban on hidden driveways?) The
consequence—unless courts water down strict scrutiny to
something unrecognizable—is that our communities will find
themselves in an unenviable bind: They will have to either repeal
the exemptions that allow for helpful signs on streets and
sidewalks, or else lift their sign restrictions altogether and
resign themselves to the resulting clutter.[1]*

															Although the majority insists that applying
strict scrutiny to all such ordinances is “essential”
to protecting First Amendment freedoms, ante, at 14, I find
it challenging to understand why that is so. This Court’s
decisions articulate two important and related reasons for
subjecting content-based speech regulations to the most exacting
standard of review. The first is “to preserve an uninhib-ited
marketplace of ideas in which truth will ultimately prevail.”
McCullen v. Coakley, 573 U. S. ___, ___–___
(2014) (slip op., at 8–9) (internal quotation marks omitted).
The second is to ensure that the government has not regulated
speech “based on hostility—or favoritism—towards
the underlying message expressed.” R. A. V. v. St.
Paul, 505 U. S. 377, 386 (1992) . Yet the subject-matter
exemptions included in many sign ordinances do not implicate those
concerns. Allowing residents, say, to install a light bulb over
“name and address” signs but no others does not distort
the marketplace of ideas. Nor does that different treatment give
rise to an inference of impermissible government motive.

															We apply strict scrutiny to facially
content-based regulations of speech, in keeping with the rationales
just described, when there is any “realistic possibility that
official suppression of ideas is afoot.” Davenport v.
Washington Ed. Assn., 551 U. S. 177, 189 (2007)
(quoting R. A. V., 505 U. S., at 390). That
is always the case when the regulation facially differentiates on
the basis of viewpoint. See Rosenberger v. Rector and
Visitors of Univ. of Va., 515 U. S. 819, 829 (1995) . It
is also the case (except in non-public or limited public forums)
when a law restricts “discussion of an entire topic” in
public debate. Consolidated Edison Co. of N. Y. v.
Public Serv. Comm’n of N. Y., 447 U. S. 530
–540 (1980) (invalidating a limitation on speech about
nuclear power). We have stated that “[i]f the marketplace of
ideas is to remain free and open, governments must not be allowed
to choose ‘which issues are worth discussing or
debating.’ ” Id., at 537–538 (quoting
Police Dept. of Chicago v. Mosley, 408 U. S. 92, 96
(1972) ). And we have recognized that such subject-matter
restrictions, even though viewpoint-neutral on their face, may
“suggest[ ] an attempt to give one side of a debatable
public question an advantage in expressing its views to the
people.” First Nat. Bank of Boston v. Bellotti,
435 U. S. 765, 785 (1978) ; accord, ante, at 1 (Alito,
J., concurring) (limiting all speech on one topic “favors
those who do not want to disturb the status quo”).
Subject-matter regulation, in other words, may have the intent or
effect of favoring some ideas over others. When that is
realistically possible—when the restriction “raises the
specter that the Government may effectively drive certain ideas or
viewpoints from the marketplace”—we insist that the law
pass the most demanding constitutional test.
R. A. V., 505 U. S., at 387 (quoting Simon
& Schuster, Inc. v. Members of N. Y. State Crime Victims
Bd., 502 U. S. 105, 116 (1991) ).

															But when that is not realistically possible, we
may do well to relax our guard so that “entirely
reasonable” laws imperiled by strict scrutiny can survive.
Ante, at 14. This point is by no means new. Our concern with
content-based regulation arises from the fear that the government
will skew the public’s debate of ideas—so when
“that risk is inconsequential, . . . strict
scrutiny is unwarranted.” Davenport, 551 U. S.,
at 188; see R. A. V., 505 U. S., at 388 (approving
certain content-based distinctions when there is “no
significant danger of idea or viewpoint discrimination”). To
do its intended work, of course, the category of content-based
regulation triggering strict scrutiny must sweep more broadly than
the actual harm; that category exists to create a buffer zone
guaranteeing that the government cannot favor or disfavor certain
viewpoints. But that buffer zone need not extend forever. We can
administer our content-regulation doctrine with a dose of common
sense, so as to leave standing laws that in no way implicate its
intended function.

															And indeed we have done just that: Our cases
have been far less rigid than the majority admits in applying
strict scrutiny to facially content-based laws—including in
cases just like this one. See Davenport, 551 U. S., at
188 (noting that “we have identified numerous situations in
which [the] risk” attached to content-based laws is
“attenuated”). In Members of City Council of Los
Angeles v. Taxpayers for Vincent, 466 U. S. 789
(1984) , the Court declined to apply strict scrutiny to a municipal
ordinance that exempted address numbers and markers commemorating
“historical, cultural, or artistic event[s]” from a
generally applicable limit on sidewalk signs. Id., at 792,
n. 1 (listing exemptions); see id., at 804–810
(upholding ordinance under intermediate scrutiny). After all, we
explained, the law’s enactment and enforcement revealed
“not even a hint of bias or censorship.” Id., at
804; see also Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475
U. S. 41, 48 (1986) (applying intermediate scrutiny to a
zoning law that facially distinguished among movie theaters based
on content because it was “designed to prevent crime, protect
the city’s retail trade, [and] maintain property values
. . . , not to suppress the expression of unpopular
views”). And another decision involving a similar law
provides an alternative model. In City of Ladue v.
Gilleo, 512 U. S. 43 (1994) , the Court assumed
arguendo that a sign ordinance’s exceptions for
address signs, safety signs, and for-sale signs in residential
areas did not trigger strict scrutiny. See id., at
46–47, and n. 6 (listing exemptions); id., at 53
(noting this assumption). We did not need to, and so did not,
decide the level-of-scrutiny question because the law’s
breadth made it unconstitutional under any standard.

															The majority could easily have taken
Ladue’s tack here. The Town of Gilbert’s defense
of its sign ordinance—most notably, the law’s
distinctions between directional signs and others—does not
pass strict scrutiny, or intermediate scrutiny, or even the laugh
test. See ante, at 14–15 (discussing those
distinctions). The Town, for example, provides no reason at all for
prohibiting more than four directional signs on a property while
placing no limits on the number of other types of signs. See
Gilbert, Ariz., Land Development Code, ch. I, §§4.402(J),
(P)(2) (2014). Similarly, the Town offers no coherent justification
for restricting the size of directional signs to 6 square feet
while allowing other signs to reach 20 square feet. See
§§4.402(J), (P)(1). The best the Town could come up with
at oral argument was that directional signs “need to be
smaller because they need to guide travelers along a route.”
Tr. of Oral Arg. 40. Why exactly a smaller sign better helps
travelers get to where they are going is left a mystery. The
absence of any sensible basis for these and other distinctions
dooms the Town’s ordinance under even the intermediate
scrutiny that the Court typically applies to “time, place, or
manner” speech regulations. Accordingly, there is no need to
decide in this case whether strict scrutiny applies to every sign
ordinance in every town across this country containing a
subject-matter exemption.

															I suspect this Court and others will regret the
majority’s insistence today on answering that question in the
affirmative. As the years go by, courts will discover that
thousands of towns have such ordinances, many of them
“entirely reasonable.” Ante, at 14. And as the
challenges to them mount, courts will have to invalidate one after
the other. (This Court may soon find itself a veritable Supreme
Board of Sign Review.) And courts will strike down those
democratically enacted local laws even though no
one—certainly not the majority—has ever explained why
the vindication of First Amendment values requires that result.
Because I see no reason why such an easy case calls for us to cast
a constitutional pall on reasonable regulations quite unlike the
law before us, I concur only in the judgment.

Notes
1
* Even in trying
(commendably) to limit today’s decision, Justice
Alito’s concurrence highlights its far-reaching effects.
According to Justice Alito, the majority does not subject to strict
scrutiny regulations of “signs advertising a one-time
event.” Ante, at 2 (Alito, J., concurring). But of
course it does. On the majority’s view, a law with an
exception for such signs “singles out specific subject matter
for differential treatment” and “defin[es] regulated
speech by particular subject matter.” Ante, at 6, 12
(majority opinion). Indeed, the precise reason the majority applies
strict scrutiny here is that “the Code singles out signs
bearing a particular message: the time and location of a specific
event.” Ante, at 14.


