::SCDB_caseID:: 2014-011
::decision_cite:: 13-628
::decision_name::  Zivotofsky v. Kerry
::decision_year:: 2015
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 13–628

															_________________

															MENACHEM BINYAMIN ZIVOTOFSKY, by his parents
and guardians, ARI Z. AND NAOMI SIEGMAN ZIVOTOFSKY, PETITIONER
v. JOHN KERRY, SECRETARY OF STATE

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit

															[June 8, 2015]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Alito
joins, dissenting.

															Today’s decision is a first: Never before
has this Court accepted a President’s direct defiance of an
Act of Congress in the field of foreign affairs. We have instead
stressed that the President’s power reaches “its lowest
ebb” when he contravenes the express will of Congress,
“for what is at stake is the equilibrium established by our
constitutional system.” Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U. S. 579 –638 (1952)
(Jackson, J.,concurring).

															Justice Scalia’s principal dissent, which
I join in full, refutes the majority’s unprecedented holding
in detail. I write separately to underscore the stark nature of the
Court’s error on a basic question of separation of
powers.

															The first principles in this area are firmly
established. The Constitution allocates some foreign policy powers
to the Executive, grants some to the Legislature, and enjoins the
President to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully
executed.” Art. II, §3. The Executive may disregard
“the expressed or implied will of Congress” only if the
Constitution grants him a power “at once so conclusive and
preclusive” as to “disabl[e] the Congress from acting
upon the subject.” Youngstown, 343 U. S., at
637–638 (Jackson, J., concurring).

															Assertions of exclusive and preclusive power
leave the Executive “in the least favorable of possible
constitutional postures,” and such claims have been
“scrutinized with caution” throughout this
Court’s history. Id., at 640, 638; see Dames &
Moore v. Regan, 453 U. S. 654 –669 (1981).
For our first 225 years, no President prevailed when contradicting
a statute in the field of foreign affairs. See
Medellín v. Texas, 552 U. S. 491
–532 (2008); Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, 548 U. S.
557 –595, 613–625 (2006); Youngstown, 343
U. S., at 587–589 (majority opinion);
Little v. Barreme, 2 Cranch 170, 177–179
(1804).

															In this case, the President claims the exclusive
and preclusive power to recognize foreign sovereigns. The Court
devotes much of its analysis to accepting the Executive’s
contention. Ante, at 6–26. I have serious doubts about
that position. The majority places great weight on the Reception
Clause, which directs that the Executive “shall receive
Ambassadors and other public Ministers.” Art. II,
§3. But that provision, framed as an obligation rather than an
authorization, appears alongside the duties imposed on the
President by Article II, Section 3, not the powers granted
to him by Article II, Section 2. Indeed, the People ratified the
Constitution with Alexander Hamilton’s assurance that
executive reception of ambassadors “is more a matter of
dignity than of authority” and “will be without
consequence in the administration of the government.” The
Federalist No. 69, p. 420 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961). In short, at the
time of the founding, “there was no reason to view the
reception clause as a source of discretionary authority for the
president.” Adler, The President’s Recognition Power:
Ministerial or Discretionary? 25 Presidential Studies Q. 267, 269
(1995).

															The majority’s other asserted textual
bases are even more tenuous. The President does have power to make
treaties and appoint ambassadors. Art. II, §2. Butthose
authorities are shared with Congress, ibid., so they
hardly support an inference that the recognition power is
exclusive.

															Precedent and history lend no more weight to the
Court’s position. The majority cites dicta suggesting an
exclusive executive recognition power, but acknowledges contrary
dicta suggesting that the power is shared. See, e.g.,
United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610, 643 (1818)
(“the courts of the union must view [a] newly constituted
government as it is viewed by the legislative and executive
departments of the government of the United States”
(emphasis added)). When the best you can muster is conflicting
dicta, precedent can hardly be said to support your side.

															As for history, the majority admits that it too
points in both directions. Some Presidents have claimed an
exclusive recognition power, but others have expressed uncertainty
about whether such preclusive authority exists. Those in the
skeptical camp include Andrew Jackson and Abraham Lincoln, leaders
not generally known for their cramped conceptions of Presidential
power. Congress has also asserted its authority over recognition
determinations at numerous points in history. The majority
therefore falls short of demonstrating that “Congress has
accepted” the President’s exclusive recognition power.
Ante, at 26. In any event, we have held that congressional
acquiescence is only “pertinent” when the President
acts in the absence of express congressional authorization, not
when he asserts power to disregard a statute, as the Executive does
here. Medellín, 552 U. S., at 528; see Dames
& Moore, 453 U. S., at 678–679.

															In sum, although the President has authority
over recognition, I am not convinced that the Constitution provides
the “conclusive and preclusive” power required to
justify defiance of an express legislative mandate.
Youngstown, 343 U. S., at 638 (Jackson, J.,
concurring). As the leading scholar on this issue has concluded,
the “text, original understanding, post-ratification history,
and structure of the Constitution do not support the
. . . expansive claim that this executive power is
plenary.” Reinstein, Is the President’s Recognition
Power Exclusive? 86 Temp. L. Rev. 1, 60 (2013).

															But even if the President does have exclusive
recognition power, he still cannot prevail in this case, because
the statute at issue does not implicate recognition. See
Zivotofsky v. Clinton, 566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012)
(Alito, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 1); post,
at 5–10 (Scalia, J., dissenting). The relevant provision,
§214(d), simply gives an American citizen born in Jerusalem
the option to designate his place of birth as Israel
“[f ]or purposes of” passports and other
documents. Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003,
116Stat. 1366. The State Department itself has explained that
“identification”—not recognition—“is
the principal reason that U. S. passports require ‘place
of birth.’ ” App. 42. Congress has not disputed
the Executive’s assurances that §214(d) does not alter
the longstanding United States position on Jerusalem. And the
annals of diplomatic history record no examples of official
recognition accomplished via optional passport designation.

															The majority acknowledges both that the
“Executive’s exclusive power extends no further than
his formal recognition determination” and that §214(d)
does “not itself constitute a formal act of
recognition.” Ante, at 27. Taken together, these
statements come close to a confession of error. The majority
attempts to reconcile its position by reconceiving §214(d) as
a “mandate that the Executive contradict his prior
recognition determination in an official document issued by the
Secretary of State.” Ante, at 27. But as just noted,
neither Congress nor the Executive Branch regards §214(d) as a
recognition determination, so it is hard to see how the statute
could contradict any such determination.

															At most, the majority worries that there may be
a perceived contradiction based on a mistaken
understanding of the effect of §214(d), insisting that some
“observers interpreted §214 as altering United States
policy regarding Jerusalem.” Ante, at 28. To afford
controlling weight to such impressions, however, is essentially to
subject a duly enacted statute to an international heckler’s
veto.

															Moreover, expanding the President’s
purportedly exclusive recognition power to include authority to
avoid potential misunderstandings of legislative enactments proves
far too much. Congress could validly exercise its enumerated powers
in countless ways that would create more severe perceived
contradictions with Presidential recognition decisions than does
§214(d). If, for example, the President recognized a
particular country in opposition to Congress’s wishes,
Congress could declare war or impose a trade embargo on that
country. A neutral observer might well conclude that these
legislative actions had, to put it mildly, created a perceived
contradiction with the President’s recognition decision. And
yet each of them would undoubtedly be constitutional. See
ante, at 27. So too would statements by nonlegislative
actors that might be seen to contradict the President’s
recognition positions, such as the declaration in a political party
platform that “Jerusalem is and will remain the capital of
Israel.” Landler, Pushed by Obama, Democrats Alter Platform
Over Jerusalem, N. Y. Times, Sept. 6, 2012, p. A14.

															Ultimately, the only power that could support
the President’s position is the one the majority purports to
reject: the “exclusive authority to conduct diplomatic
relations.” Brief for Respondent 18. The Government offers a
single citation for this allegedly exclusive power: United
States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S.
304 –320 (1936). But as the majority rightly acknowledges,
Curtiss-Wright did not involve a claim that the Executive
could contravene a statute; it held only that he could act pursuant
to a legislative delegation. Ante, at 17.

															The expansive language in Curtiss-Wright
casting the President as the “sole organ” of the Nation
in foreign affairs certainly has attraction for members of the
Executive Branch. The Solicitor General invokes the case no fewer
than ten times in his brief. Brief for Respondent 9, 10, 18, 19,
23, 24, 53, 54. But our precedents have never accepted such a
sweeping understanding of executive power. See Hamdan, 548
U. S., at 591–592; Dames & Moore, 453
U. S., at 661–662; Youngstown, 343 U. S., at
587 (majority opinion); id., at 635, n. 2 (Jackson, J.,
concurring); cf. Little, 2 Cranch, at 179 (Marshall,
C. J.) (“I confess the first bias of my mind was very
strong in favour of . . . the executive . . .
[b]ut I have been convinced that I was mistaken.”).

															Just a few Terms ago, this Court rejected the
President’s argument that a broad foreign relations power
allowed him to override a state court decision that contradicted
U. S. international law obligations. Medellín,
552 U. S., at 523–532. If the President’s
so-called general foreign relations authority does not permit him
to countermand a State’s lawful action, it surely does not
authorize him to disregard an express statutory directive enacted
by Congress, which—unlike the States—has extensive
foreign relations powers of its own. Unfortunately, despite its
protest to the contrary, the majority today allows the Executive to
do just that.

															Resolving the status of Jerusalem may be vexing,
but resolving this case is not. Whatever recognition power the
President may have, exclusive or otherwise, is not implicated by
§214(d). It has not been necessary over the past 225 years to
definitively resolve a dispute between Congress and the President
over the recognition power. Perhaps we could have waited another
225 years. But instead the majority strains to reach the question
based on the mere possibility that observers overseas might
misperceive the significance of the birthplace designation at issue
in this case. And in the process, the Court takes the perilous
step—for the first time in our history—of allowing the
President to defy an Act of Congress in the field of foreign
affairs.

															I respectfully dissent.

													
