::SCDB_caseID:: 2014-024
::decision_cite:: 13-983
::decision_name::  Elonis v. United States
::decision_year:: 2015
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence & Dissent In Part
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 13–983

															_________________

															ANTHONY DOUGLAS ELONIS, PETITIONER v.
UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the third circuit

															[June 1, 2015]

															

															Justice Alito, concurring in part and
dissenting in part.

															In Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch
137, 177 (1803), the Court famously proclaimed: “It is
emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to
say what the law is.” Today, the Court announces: It is
emphatically the prerogative of this Court to say only what the law
is not.

															The Court’s disposition of this case is
certain to cause confusion and serious problems. Attorneys and
judges need to know which mental state is required for conviction
under 18 U. S. C. §875(c), an important criminal
statute. This case squarely presents that issue, but the Court
provides only a partial answer. The Court holds that the jury
instructions in this case were defective because they required only
negligence in conveying a threat. But the Court refuses to explain
what type of intent was necessary. Did the jury need to find that
Elonis had the purpose of conveying a true threat? Was it
enough if he knew that his words conveyed such a threat?
Would recklessness suffice? The Court declines to say.
Attorneys and judges are left to guess.

															This will have regrettable consequences. While
this Court has the luxury of choosing its docket, lower courts and
juries are not so fortunate. They must actually decide cases, and
this means applying a standard. If purpose or knowledge is needed
and a district court instructs the jury that recklessness suffices,
a defendant may be wrongly convicted. On the other hand, if
recklessness is enough, and the jury is told that conviction
requires proof of more, a guilty defendant may go free. We granted
review in this case to resolve a disagreement among the Circuits.
But the Court has compounded—not clarified—the
confusion.

															There is no justification for the Court’s
refusal to provide an answer. The Court says that “[n]either
Elonis nor the Government has briefed or argued” the question
whether recklessness is sufficient. Ante, at 16. But in fact
both parties addressed that issue. Elonis argued that recklessness
is not enough, and the Government argued that it more than
suffices. If the Court thinks that we cannot decide the
recklessness question without additional help from the parties, we
can order further briefing and argument. In my view, however, we
are capable of deciding the recklessness issue, and we should
resolve that question now.

															I

															Section 875(c) provides in relevant part:

															“Whoever transmits in interstate or
foreign commerce any communication containing . . . any
threat to injure the person of another, shall be fined under this
title or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.”

															Thus, conviction under this provision requires
proof that: (1) the defendant transmitted something, (2) the
thing transmitted was a threat to injure the person of another, and
(3) the transmission was in interstate or foreigncommerce.

															At issue in this case is the mens rea
required with respect to the second element—that the thing
transmitted was a threat to injure the person of another. This
Court has not defined the meaning of the term “threat”
in §875(c), but in construing the same term in a related
statute, the Court distinguished a “true
‘threat’ ” from facetious or hyperbolic
remarks. Watts v. United States, 394 U. S. 705,
708 (1969) (per curiam). In my view, the term
“threat” in §875(c) can fairly be defined as a
statement that is reasonably interpreted as “an expression of
an intention to inflict evil, injury, or damage on another.”
Webster’s Third New International Dictionary 2382 (1976).
Conviction under §875(c) demands proof that the
defendant’s transmission was in fact a threat, i.e.,
that it is reasonable to interpret the transmission as an
expression of an intent to harm another. In addition, it must be
shown that the defendant was at least reckless as to whether the
transmission met that requirement.

															Why is recklessness enough? My analysis of the
mens rea issue follows the same track as the Court’s,
as far as it goes. I agree with the Court that we should presume
that criminal statutes require some sort of mens rea for
conviction. See ante, at 9–13. To be sure, this
presumption marks a departure from the way in which we generally
interpret statutes. We “ordinarily resist reading words or
elements into a statute that do not appear on its face.”
Bates v. United States, 522 U. S. 23, 29 (1997)
. But this step is justified by a well-established pattern in our
criminal laws. “For several centuries (at least since 1600)
the different common law crimes have been so defined as to require,
for guilt, that the defendant’s acts or omissions be
accompanied by one or more of the various types of fault
(intention, knowledge, recklessness or—more
rarely—negligence).” 1 W. LaFave, Substantive Criminal
Law §5.5, p. 381 (2003). Based on these “background
rules of the common law, in which the requirement of some mens
rea for a crime is firmly embedded,” we require
“some indication of congressional intent, express or implied,
. . . to dispense with mens rea as an element of a
crime.” Staples v. United States, 511
U. S. 600 –606 (1994).

															For a similar reason, I agree with the Court
that we should presume that an offense like that created by
§875(c) requires more than negligence with respect to a
critical element like the one at issue here. See ante, at
13–14. As the Court states, “[w]hen interpreting
federal criminal statutes that are silent on the required mental
state, we read into the statute ‘only that mens rea
which is necessary to separate wrongful conduct from
“otherwise innocent conduct.” ’ ”
Ante, at 12 (quoting Carter v. United States,
530 U. S. 255, 269 (2000) ). Whether negligence is morally
culpable is an interesting philosophical question, but the answer
is at least sufficiently debatable to justify the presumption that
a serious offense against the person that lacks any clear
common-law counterpart should be presumed to require more.

															Once we have passed negligence, however, no
further presumptions are defensible. In the hierarchy of mental
states that may be required as a condition for criminal liability,
the mens rea just above negligence is recklessness.
Negligence requires only that the defendant “should [have]
be[en] aware of a substantial and unjustifiable risk,” ALI,
Model Penal Code §2.02(2)(d), p. 226 (1985), while
recklessness exists “when a person disregards a risk of harm
of which he is aware,” Farmer v. Brennan, 511
U. S. 825, 837 (1994) ; Model Penal Code §2.02(2)(c). And
when Congress does not specify a mens rea in a criminal
statute, we have no justification for inferring that anything more
than recklessness is needed. It is quite un-usual for us to
interpret a statute to contain a requirement that is nowhere set
out in the text. Once we have reached recklessness, we have gone as
far as we can without stepping over the line that separates
interpretation from amendment.

															There can be no real dispute that recklessness
regarding a risk of serious harm is wrongful conduct. In a wide
variety of contexts, we have described reckless conduct as morally
culpable. See, e.g., Farmer, supra, at 835–836
(deliberate indifference to an inmate’s harm);
Garrison v. Louisiana, 379 U. S. 64, 75 (1964)
(criminal libel); New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376
U. S. 254 –280 (1964) (civil libel). Indeed, this Court
has held that “reckless disregard for human life” may
justify the death penalty. Tison v. Arizona, 481
U. S. 137, 157 (1987) . Someone who acts recklessly with
respect to conveying a threat necessarily grasps that he is not
engaged in innocent conduct. He is not merely careless. He is aware
that others could regard his statements as a threat, but he
delivers them anyway.

															Accordingly, I would hold that a defendant may
be convicted under §875(c) if he or she consciously disregards
the risk that the communication transmitted will be interpreted as
a true threat. Nothing in the Court’s non-committal opinion
prevents lower courts from adopting that standard.

															II

															There remains the question whether
interpreting §875(c) to require no more than recklessness with
respect to the element at issue here would violate the First
Amendment. Elonis contends that it would. I would reject that
argument.

															It is settled that the Constitution does not
protect true threats. See Virginia v. Black, 538
U. S. 343 –360 (2003);
R. A. V. v. St. Paul, 505
U. S. 377, 388 (1992) ; Watts, 394 U. S., at
707–708. And there are good reasons for that rule: True
threats inflict great harm and have little if any social value. A
threat may cause serious emotional stress for the person threatened
and those who care about that person, and a threat may lead to a
violent confrontation. It is true that a communication containing a
threat may include other statements that have value and are
entitled to protection. But that does not justify constitutional
protection for the threat itself.

															Elonis argues that the First Amendment protects
a threat if the person making the statement does not actually
intend to cause harm. In his view, if a threat is madefor a
“ ‘therapeutic’ ” purpose,
“to ‘deal with the pain’ . . . of a
wrenching event,” or for “cathartic” reasons, the
threat is protected. Brief for Petitioner 52–53. But whether
or not the person making a threat intends to cause harm, the damage
is the same. And the fact that making a threat may have a
therapeutic or cathartic effect for the speaker is not sufficient
to justify constitutional protection. Some people may experience a
therapeutic or cathartic benefit only if they know that their words
will cause harm or only if they actually plan to carry out the
threat, but surely the First Amendment does not protect them.

															Elonis also claims his threats were
constitutionally protected works of art. Words like his, he
contends, are shielded by the First Amendment because they are
similar to words uttered by rappers and singers in public
performances and recordings. To make this point, his brief includes
a lengthy excerpt from the lyrics of a rap song in which a very
well-compensated rapper imagines killing his ex-wife and dumping
her body in a lake. If this celebrity can utter such words, Elonis
pleads, amateurs like him should be able to post similar things on
social media. But context matters. “Taken in context,”
lyrics in songs that are performed for an audience or sold in
recorded form are unlikely to be interpreted as a real threat to a
real person. Watts, supra, at 708. Statements on social
media that are pointedly directed at their victims, by contrast,
are much more likely to be taken seriously. To hold otherwise would
grant a license to anyone who is clever enough to dress up a real
threat in the guise of rap lyrics, a parody, or something
similar.

															The facts of this case illustrate the point.
Imagine the effect on Elonis’s estranged wife when she read
this: “ ‘If I only knew then what I know now
. . . I would have smothered your ass with a pillow,
dumped your body in the back seat, dropped you off in Toad Creek
and made it look like a rape and murder.’ ” 730
F. 3d 321, 324 (CA3 2013). Or this: “There’s one
way to love you but a thousand ways to kill you. I’m not
going to rest until your body is a mess, soaked in blood and dying
from all the little cuts.” Ibid. Or this: “Fold
up your [protection from abuse order] and put it in your pocket[.]
Is it thick enough to stop a bullet?” Id., at 325.

															There was evidence that Elonis made sure his
wife saw his posts. And she testified that they made her feel
“ ‘extremely afraid’ ” and
“ ‘like [she] was being
stalked.’ ” Ibid. Considering the context,
who could blame her? Threats of violence and intimidation are among
the most favored weapons of domestic abusers, and the rise of
social media has only made those tactics more commonplace. See
Brief for The National Network to End Domestic Violence et al.
as Amici Curiae 4–16. A fig leaf of artistic
expression cannot convert such hurtful, valueless threats into
protected speech.

															It can be argued that §875(c), if not
limited to threats made with the intent to harm, will chill
statements that do not qualify as true threats, e.g.,
statements that may be literally threatening but are plainly not
meant to be taken seriously. We have sometimes cautioned that it is
necessary to “exten[d] a measure of strategic
protection” to otherwise unprotected false statements of fact
in order to ensure enough “ ‘breathing
space’ ” for protected speech. Gertz v.
Robert Welch, Inc., 418 U. S. 323, 342 (1974) (quoting
NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 433 (1963) ). A
similar argument might be made with respect to threats. But we have
also held that the law provides adequate breathing space when it
requires proof that false statements were made with reckless
disregard of their falsity. See New York Times, 376
U. S., at 279–280 (civil liability); Garrison,
379 U. S., at 74–75 (criminal liability). Requiring
proof of recklessness is similarly sufficient here.

															III

															Finally, because the jury instructions in this
case did not require proof of recklessness, I would vacate the
judgment below and remand for the Court of Appeals to decide in the
first instance whether Elonis’s conviction could be upheld
under a recklessness standard.

															We do not lightly overturn criminal convictions,
even where it appears that the district court might have erred. To
benefit from a favorable ruling on appeal, a defendant must have
actually asked for the legal rule the appellate court adopts. Rule
30(d) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure requires a
defendant to “inform the court of the specific objection and
the grounds for the objection.” An objection cannot be vague
or open-ended. It must specifically identify the alleged
error. And failure to lodge a sufficient objection “precludes
appellate review,” except for plain error. Rule 30(d); see
also 2A C. Wright & P. Henning, Federal Practice and Procedure
§484, pp. 433–435 (4th ed. 2009).

															At trial, Elonis objected to the District
Court’s instruction, but he did not argue for recklessness.
Instead, he proposed instructions that would have required proof
that he acted purposefully or with knowledge that his statements
would be received as threats. See App. 19–21. He advanced the
same position on appeal and in this Court. See Brief for Petitioner
29 (“Section 875(c) requires proof that the defendant
intended the charged statement to be a
‘threat’ ” (emphasis in original));
Corrected Brief of Appellant in No. 12–3798 (CA3), p. 14
(“[A] ‘true threat’ has been uttered only if the
speaker acted with subjective intent to threaten”
(same)). And at oral argument before this Court, he expressly
disclaimed any agreement with a recklessness standard—which
the Third Circuit remains free to adopt. Tr. of Oral Arg.
8:22–23 (“[W]e would say that recklessness is not
justif[ied]”). I would therefore remand for the Third Circuit
to determine if Elonis’s failure (indeed, refusal) to
argue for recklessness prevents reversal of his conviction.

															The Third Circuit should also have the
opportunity to consider whether the conviction can be upheld on
harmless-error grounds. “We have often applied harmless-error
analysis to cases involving improper instructions.”
Neder v. United States, 527 U. S. 1, 9 (1999) ;
see also, e.g., Pope v. Illinois, 481
U. S. 497 –504 (1987) (remanding for harmless-error
analysis after holding that jury instruction misstated obscenity
standard). And the Third Circuit has previously upheld convictions
where erroneous jury instructions proved harmless. See, e.g.,
United States v. Saybolt, 577 F. 3d 195,
206–207 (2009). It should be given the chance to address that
possibility here.

													
