::SCDB_caseID:: 2015-068
::decision_cite:: 14-1468
::decision_name::  Birchfield v. North Dakota
::decision_year:: 2016
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
															_________________
															Nos. 14–1468, 14–1470, and 14–1507
															_________________
															DANNY BIRCHFIELD, PETITIONER
															14–1468v.
															NORTH DAKOTA;
															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court ofnorth dakota
															
															WILLIAM ROBERT BERNARD, Jr., PETITIONER
															14–1470v.
															MINNESOTA; AND
															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court ofminnesota
															
															STEVE MICHAEL BEYLUND, PETITIONER
															14–1507v.
															GRANT LEVI, DIRECTOR, NORTH DAKOTA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court ofnorth dakota
															
															[June 23, 2016]
															
															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
															The Court today considers three consolidated cases.  I join the majority’s disposition of Birchfield v. North Da-kota, No. 14–1468, and Beylund v. Levi, No. 14–1507, in which the Court holds that the search-incident-to-arrest exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement does not permit warrantless blood tests.  But I dissent from the Court’s disposition of Bernard v. Minnesota, No. 14–1470, in which the Court holds that the same exception permits warrantless breath tests.  Because no governmental interest categorically makes it impractical for an officer to obtain a warrant before measuring a driver’s alcohol level, the Fourth Amendment prohibits such searches without a warrant, unless exigent circumstances exist in a particular case.[1]
															I
															A
															As the Court recognizes, the proper disposition of this case turns on whether the Fourth Amendment guarantees a right not to be subjected to a warrantless breath test after being arrested.  The Fourth Amendment provides:
															“The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.”
															The “ultimate touchstone of the Fourth Amendment is ‘reasonableness.’ ”  Brigham City v. Stuart,547 U. S. 398,403 (2006).  A citizen’s Fourth Amendment right to be free from “unreasonable searches” does not disappear upon arrest.  Police officers may want to conduct a range of searches after placing a person under arrest.  They may want to pat the arrestee down, search her pockets and purse, peek inside her wallet, scroll through her cellphone, examine her car or dwelling, swab her cheeks, or take blood and breath samples to determine her level of intoxication.  But an officer is not authorized to conduct all of these searches simply because he has arrested someone.  Each search must be separately analyzed to determine its reasonableness.
															Both before and after a person has been arrested, warrants are the usual safeguard against unreasonable searches because they guarantee that the search is not a “random or arbitrary ac[t] of government agents,” but is instead “narrowly limited in its objectives and scope.”  Skinner v. Railway Labor Executives’ Assn.,489 U. S. 602,622 (1989).  Warrants provide the “detached scrutiny of a neutral magistrate, and thus ensur[e] an objective determination whether an intrusion is justified.”  Ibid.  And they give life to our instruction that the Fourth Amendment “is designed to prevent, not simply to redress, unlawful police action.”  Steagald v. United States,451 U. S. 204,215 (1981) (internal quotation marks omitted).
															Because securing a warrant before a search is the rule of reasonableness, the warrant requirement is “subject only to a few specifically established and well-delineated exceptions.”  Katz v. United States,389 U. S. 347,357 (1967).  To determine whether to “exempt a given type of search from the warrant requirement,” this Court traditionally “assess[es], on the one hand, the degree to which it intrudes upon an individual’s privacy and, on the other, the degree to which it is needed for the promotion of legitimate governmental interests.”  Riley v. California, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 9) (internal quotation marks omitted).  In weighing “whether the public interest demands creation of a general exception to the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement, the question is not whether the public interest justifies the type of search in question,” but, more specifically, “whether the burden of obtaining a warrant is likely to frustrate the governmental purpose behind the search.”  Camara v. Municipal Court of City and County of San Francisco,387 U. S. 523,533 (1967); see also Almeida-Sanchez v. United States, 413 U. S. 266–283 (1973) (Powell, J., concurring) (noting that in areas ranging from building inspections to automobile searches, the Court’s “general approach to exceptions to the warrant requirement” is to determine whether a “ ‘warrant system can be constructed that would be feasible and meaningful’ ”); United States v. United States Dist. Court for Eastern Dist. of Mich.,407 U. S. 297,315 (1972) (“We must . . . ask whether a warrant requirement would unduly frustrate the [governmental interest]”).[2]
															Applying these principles in past cases, this Court has recognized two kinds of exceptions to the warrant requirement that are implicated here: (1) case-by-case exceptions, where the particularities of an individual case justify a warrantless search in that instance, but not others; and (2) categorical exceptions, where the commonalities among a class of cases justify dispensing with the warrant requirement for all of those cases, regardless of their individual circumstances.
															Relevant here, the Court allows warrantless searches on a case-by-case basis where the “exigencies” of the particular case “make the needs of law enforcement so compelling that a warrantless search is objectively reasonable” in that instance.  Missouri v. McNeely, 569 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 5) (quoting Kentucky v. King,563 U. S. 452,460 (2011)).  The defining feature of the exigent circumstances exception is that the need for the search becomes clear only after “all of the facts and circumstances of the particular case” have been considered in light of the “totality of the circumstances.”  569 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8).  Exigencies can include officers’ “need to provide emer-gency assistance to an occupant of a home, engage in ‘hotpursuit’ of a fleeing suspect, or enter a burning building to put out a fire and investigate its cause.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (citations omitted).
															Exigencies can also arise in efforts to measure a driver’s blood alcohol level.  In Schmerber v. California,384 U. S. 757 (1966), for instance, a man sustained injuries in a car accident and was transported to the hospital.  While there, a police officer arrested him for drunk driving and ordered a warrantless blood test to measure his blood alcohol content.  This Court noted that although the warrant requirement generally applies to postarrest blood tests, a warrantless search was justified in that case because several hours had passed while the police investigated the scene of the crime and Schmerber was taken to the hospital, precluding a timely securing of a warrant.  Id., at 770–771.
															This Court also recognizes some forms of searches in which the governmental interest will “categorically” outweigh the person’s privacy interest in virtually any circumstance in which the search is conducted.  Relevant here is the search-incident-to-arrest exception.  That exception allows officers to conduct a limited postarrest search without a warrant to combat risks that could arise in any arrest situation before a warrant could be obtained: “ ‘to remove any weapons that the [arrestee] might seek to use in order to resist arrest or effect his escape’ ” and to “ ‘seize any evidence on the arrestee’s person in order to prevent its concealment or destruction.’ ”  Riley, 573 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6) (quoting Chimel v. California,395 U. S. 752,763 (1969)).  That rule applies “categorical[ly]” to all arrests because the need for the warrantless search arises from the very “fact of the lawful arrest,” not from the reason for arrest or the circumstances surrounding it.  United States v. Robinson,414 U. S. 218,225,235 (1973).
															Given these different kinds of exceptions to the warrant requirement, if some form of exception is necessary for a particular kind of postarrest search, the next step is to ask whether the governmental need to conduct a warrantless search arises from “threats” that “ ‘lurk in all custodial arrests’ ” and therefore “justif[ies] dispensing with the warrant requirement across the board,” or, instead, whether the threats “may be implicated in a particular way in a particular case” and are therefore “better addressed through consideration of case-specific exceptions to the warrant requirement, such as the one for exigent circumstances.”  Riley, 573 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11–12) (alterations and internal quotation marks omitted).
															To condense these doctrinal considerations into a straightforward rule, the question is whether, in light of the individual’s privacy, a “legitimate governmental interest” justifies warrantless searches—and, if so, whether that governmental interest is adequately addressed by a case-by-case exception or requires by its nature a categorical exception to the warrant requirement.
															B
															This Court has twice applied this framework in recent terms.  Riley v. California, 573 U. S. ___,addressed whether, after placing a person under arrest, a police officer mayconduct a warrantless search of his cell phone data.  California asked for a categorical rule, but the Court rejected that request, concluding that cell phones do not present the generic arrest-related harms that have long justified the search-incident-to-arrest exception.  The Court found that phone data posed neither a danger to officer safety nor a risk of evidence destruction once the physical phone was secured.  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 10–15).  The Court nevertheless acknowledged that the exigent circumstances exception might be available in a “now or never situation.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 15) (internal quotation marks omitted).  It emphasized that “[i]n light of the availability of the exigent circumstances exception, there is no reason to believe that law enforcement officers will not be able to address” the rare needs that would require an on-the-spot search.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 26).
															Similarly, Missouri v. McNeely, 569 U. S. ___,applied this doctrinal analysis to a case involving police efforts to measure drivers’ blood alcohol levels.  In that case, Missouri argued that the natural dissipation of alcohol in a person’s blood justified a per se exigent circumstances exception to the warrant requirement—in essence, a new kind of categorical exception.  The Court recognized that exigencies could exist, like in Schmerber, that would jus-tify warrantless searches.  569 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9).  But it also noted that in many drunk driving situations, no such exigencies exist.  Where, for instance, “the warrant process will not significantly increase the delay” in testing “because an officer can take steps to secure a warrant” while the subject is being prepared for the test, there is “no plausible justification for an exception to the warrant requirement.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 10).  The Court thus found it unnecessary to “depart from careful case-by-case assessment of exigency and adopt the categorical rule proposed by the State.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 9).[3]
															II
															The States do not challenge McNeely’s holding that a categorical exigency exception is not necessary to accommodate the governmental interests associated with the dissipation of blood alcohol after drunk-driving arrests.  They instead seek to exempt breath tests from the warrant requirement categorically under the search-incident-to-arrest doctrine.  The majority agrees.  Both are wrong.
															As discussed above, regardless of the exception a State requests, the Court’s traditional framework asks whether, in light of the privacy interest at stake, a legitimate governmental interest ever requires conducting breath searches without a warrant—and, if so, whether that governmental interest is adequately addressed by a case-by-case exception or requires a categorical exception to the warrant requirement.  That framework directs the conclusion that a categorical search-incident-to-arrest rule for breath tests is unnecessary to address the States’ governmental interests in combating drunk driving.
															A
															Beginning with the governmental interests, there can be no dispute that States must have tools to combat drunk driving.  See ante, at 2–8.  But neither the States nor the Court has demonstrated that “obtaining a warrant” in cases not already covered by the exigent circumstances exception “is likely to frustrate the governmental purpose[s] behind [this] search.”  Camara, 387 U. S., at 533.[4]
															First, the Court cites the governmental interest in protecting the public from drunk drivers.  See ante, at 24.  But it is critical to note that once a person is stopped for drunk driving and arrested, he no longer poses an immediate threat to the public.  Because the person is already in custody prior to the administration of the breath test, there can be no serious claim that the time it takes to obtain a warrant would increase the danger that drunk driver poses to fellow citizens.
															Second, the Court cites the governmental interest in preventing the destruction or loss of evidence.  See ante, at 30-31.  But neither the Court nor the States identify any practical reasons why obtaining a warrant after making an arrest and before conducting a breath test compromises the quality of the evidence obtained.  To the contrary, the delays inherent in administering reliable breath tests generally provide ample time to obtain a warrant.
															There is a common misconception that breath tests are conducted roadside, immediately after a driver is arrested.  While some preliminary testing is conducted roadside, reliability concerns with roadside tests confine their use in most circumstances to establishing probable cause for an arrest.  See 2 R. Erwin, Defense of Drunk Driving Cases §18.08 (3d ed. 2015) (“Screening devices are . . . used when it is impractical to utilize an evidential breath tester (EBT) (e.g. at roadside or at various work sites)”).  The standard evidentiary breath test is conducted after a motorist is arrested and transported to a police station, governmental building, or mobile testing facility where officers can access reliable, evidence-grade breath testing machinery.  Brief for Respondent in No. 14–1618, p. 8, n. 2; National Highway Transportation Safety Admin. (NHTSA), A. Berning et al., Refusal of Intoxication Testing: A Report to Congress 4, and n. 5 (No. 811098, Sept. 2008).  Transporting the motorist to the equipment site is not the only potential delay in the process, however.  Officers must also observe the subject for 15 to 20 minutes to ensure that “residual mouth alcohol,” which can inflate results and expose the test to an evidentiary challenge at trial, has dissipated and that the subject has not inserted any food or drink into his mouth.[5]  In many States, including Minnesota, officers must then give the motorist a window of time within which to contact an attorney before administering a test.[6]  Finally, if a breath test machine is not already active, the police officer must set it up.  North Dakota’s Intoxilyzer 8000 machine can take as long as 30 minutes to “warm-up.”[7]
															Because of these necessary steps, the standard breath test is conducted well after an arrest is effectuated.  The Minnesota Court of Appeals has explained that nearly all breath tests “involve a time lag of 45 minutes to two hours.”  State v. Larson, 429 N. W. 2d 674, 676 (Minn. App. 1988); see also State v. Chirpich, 392 N. W. 2d 34, 37 (Minn. App. 1986).  Both North Dakota and Minnesota give police a 2-hour period from the time the motorist was pulled over within which to administer a breath test.  N. D. Cent. Code Ann. §39–20–04.1(1) (2008); Minn. Stat. §169A.20, subd. 1(5) (2014).[8]
															During this built-in window, police can seek warrants.  That is particularly true in light of “advances” in technol-ogy that now permit “the more expeditious processing of warrant applications.”  McNeely, 569 U. S., at ___–___, and n. 4 (slip op., at 11–12, and n. 4) (describing increased availability of telephonic warrants); Riley, 573 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 26) (describing jurisdictions that have adopted an e-mail warrant system that takes less than 15 minutes); Minn. Rules Crim. Proc. 33.05, 36.01–36.08 (2010 and Supp. 2013) (allowing telephonic warrants); N. D. Rules Crim. Proc. 41(c)(2)–(3) (2013) (same).  Moreover, counsel for North Dakota explained at oral argument that the State uses a typical “on-call” system in which some judges are available even during off-duty times.[9]  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 42.
															Where “an officer can . . . secure a warrant while” the motorist is being transported and the test is being prepared, this Court has said that “there would be no plausible justification for an exception to the warrant requirement.”  McNeely, 569 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10).  Neither the Court nor the States provide any evidence to suggest that, in the normal course of affairs, obtaining a warrant and conducting a breath test will exceed the allotted 2-hour window.
															Third, the Court and the States cite a governmental interest in minimizing the costs of gathering evidence of drunk driving.  But neither has demonstrated that requiring police to obtain warrants for breath tests would impose a sufficiently significant burden on state resources to justify the elimination of the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement.  The Court notes that North Dakota has 82 judges and magistrate judges who are authorized to issue warrants.  See ante, at 27-28.  Because North Da-kota has roughly 7,000 drunk-driving arrests annually, theCourt concludes that if police were required to obtain warrants “for every search incident to arrest that does not involve exigent circumstances, the courts would be swamped.”  Ante, at 27. That conclusion relies on inflated numbers and unsupported inferences.
															Assuming that North Dakota police officers do not obtain warrants for any drunk-driving arrests today, and assuming that they would need to obtain a warrant for every drunk-driving arrest tomorrow, each of the State’s 82 judges and magistrate judges would need to issue fewer than two extra warrants per week.[10]  Minnesota has nearly the same ratio of judges to drunk-driving arrests, and sowould face roughly the same burden.[11]  These back-of-the-envelope numbers suggest that the burden of obtaining a warrant before conducting a breath test would be small in both States.
															But even these numbers overstate the burden by a significant degree.  States only need to obtain warrants for drivers who refuse testing and a significant majority of drivers voluntarily consent to breath tests, even in States without criminal penalties for refusal.  In North Dakota, only 21% of people refuse breath tests and in Minnesota, only 12% refuse.  NHTSA, E. Namuswe, H. Coleman, & A. Berning, Breath Test Refusal Rates in the United States–2011 Update 2 (No. 811881 2014).  Including States that impose only civil penalties for refusal, the average refusal rate is slightly higher at 24%.  Id., at 3.  Say that North Dakota’s and Minnesota’s refusal rates rise to double the mean, or 48%.  Each of their judges and magistrate judges would need to issue fewer than one extra warrant a week.[12]  That bears repeating: The Court finds a categorical exception to the warrant requirement because each of a State’s judges and magistrate judges would need to issue less than one extra warrant a week.
															Fourth, the Court alludes to the need to collect evidence conveniently.  But mere convenience in investigating drunk driving cannot itself justify an exception to the warrant requirement.  All of this Court’s postarrest exceptions to the warrant requirement require a law enforcement interest separate from criminal investigation.  The Court’s justification for the search incident to arrest rule is “the officer’s safety” and the prevention of evidence “concealment or destruction.”  Chimel, 395 U. S., at 763.  The Court’s justification for the booking exception, which allows police to obtain fingerprints and DNA without a warrant while booking an arrestee at the police station, is the administrative need for identification.  See Maryland v. King, 569 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2013) (slip op., at 11–12).  The Court’s justification for the inventory search exception, which allows police to inventory the items in the arrestee’s personal possession and car, is the need to “protect an owner’s property while it is in the custody of the police, to insure against claims of lost, stolen, or vandalized property, and to guard the police from danger.”  Colorado v. Bertine,479 U. S. 367,372 (1987).
															This Court has never said that mere convenience in gathering evidence justifies an exception to the warrant requirement.  See Florida v. Wells,495 U. S. 1,4 (1990) (suppressing evidence where supposed “inventory” search was done without standardized criteria, suggesting instead “ ‘a purposeful and general means of discovering evidence of crime’ ”).  If the simple collection of evidence justifies an exception to the warrant requirement even where a warrant could be easily obtained, exceptions would become the rule.  Ibid.
															Finally, as a general matter, the States have ample tools to force compliance with lawfully obtained warrants.  This Court has never cast doubt on the States’ ability to impose criminal penalties for obstructing a search authorized by a lawfully obtained warrant.  No resort to violent compliance would be necessary to compel a test.  If a police officer obtains a warrant to conduct a breath test, citizens can be subjected to serious penalties for obstruction of justice if they decline to cooperate with the test.
															This Court has already taken the weighty step of characterizing breath tests as “searches” for Fourth Amendment purposes.  See Skinner, 489 U. S., at 616–617.  That is because the typical breath test requires the subject to actively blow alveolar (or “deep lung”) air into the machine.  Ibid.  Although the process of physically blowing into the machine can be completed in as little as a few minutes, the end-to-end process can be significantly longer.  The person administering the test must calibrate themachine, collect at least two separate samples from the arrestee, change the mouthpiece and reset the machine between each, and conduct any additional testing indicated by disparities between the two tests.[13]  Although somesearches are certainly more invasive than breath tests, this Court cannot do justice to their status as Fourth Amendment “searches” if exaggerated time pressures, mere convenience in collecting evidence, and the “burden” of asking judges to issue an extra couple of warrants per month are costs so high as to render reasonable a search without a warrant.[14]  The Fourth Amendment becomes an empty promise of protecting citizens from unreasonable searches.
															B
															After evaluating the governmental and privacy interests at stake here, the final step is to determine whether any situations in which warrants would interfere with the States’ legitimate governmental interests should be accommodated through a case-by-case or categorical exception to the warrant requirement.
															As shown, because there are so many circumstances in which obtaining a warrant will not delay the administration of a breath test or otherwise compromise any governmental interest cited by the States, it should be clear that allowing a categorical exception to the warrant requirement is a “considerable overgeneralization” here.  McNeely, 569 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10). As this Court concluded in Riley and McNeely, any unusual issues that do arise can “better [be] addressed through considera-tion of case-specific exceptions to the warrant requirement.”  Riley, 573 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11); see also McNeely, 569 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15) (opinion of Sotomayor, J.).
															Without even considering the comparative effectiveness of case-by-case and categorical exceptions, the Court reaches for the categorical search-incident-to-arrest exception and enshrines it for all breath tests.  The majority apparently assumes that any postarrest search should be analyzed under the search-incident-to-arrest doctrine.  See ante, at 16 (“In the three cases now before us, the drivers were searched or told that they were required to submit to a search after being placed under arrest for drunk driving.  We therefore consider how the search-incident-to-arrest doctrine applies to breath and blood tests incident to such arrests”).
															But, as we explained earlier, police officers may want to conduct a range of different searches after placing a person under arrest.  Each of those searches must be separately analyzed for Fourth Amendment compliance.  Two narrow types of postarrest searches are analyzed together under the rubric of our search-incident-to-arrest doctrine: Searches to disarm arrestees who could pose a danger before a warrant is obtained and searches to find evidence arrestees have an incentive to destroy before a warrant is obtained.  Chimel, 395 U. S., at 763.  Other forms of postarrest searches are analyzed differently because they present needs that require more tailored exceptions to the warrant requirement. See supra, at 4–5 (discussing postarrest application of the “exigency” exception); see also supra, at 13–14 (discussing postarrest booking and inven-tory exceptions).
															The fact that a person is under arrest does not tell us which of these warrant exceptions should apply to a par-ticular kind of postarrest search.  The way to analyze which exception, if any, is appropriate is to ask whether the exception best addresses the nature of the postarrest search and the needs it fulfills.  Yet the majority never explains why the search-incident-to-arrest framework—its justifications, applications, and categorical scope—is best suited to breath tests.
															To the contrary, the search-incident-to-arrest exception is particularly ill suited to breath tests.  To the extent the Court discusses any fit between breath tests and the rationales underlying the search-incident-to-arrest exception, it says that evidence preservation is one of the core values served by the exception and worries that “evidence may be lost” if breath tests are not conducted.  Ante, at 31.  But, of course, the search-incident-to-arrest exception is concerned with evidence destruction only insofar as that destruction would occur before a warrant could be sought.  And breath tests are not, except in rare circumstances, conducted at the time of arrest, before a warrant can be obtained, but at a separate location 40 to 120 minutes after an arrest is effectuated.  That alone should be reason to reject an exception forged to address the immediate needs of arrests.
															The exception’s categorical reach makes it even less suitable here.  The search-incident-to-arrest exception is applied categorically precisely because the needs it addresses could arise in every arrest.  Robinson, 414 U. S., at 236.  But the government’s need to conduct a breath test is present only in arrests for drunk driving.  And the asserted need to conduct a breath test without a warrant arisesonly when a warrant cannot be obtained during the significant built-in delay between arrest and testing.  The conditions that require warrantless breath searches, in short, are highly situational and defy the logical underpinnings of the search-incident-to-arrest exception and its categorical application.
															*  *  *
															In Maryland v. King, this Court dispensed with the warrant requirement and allowed DNA searches following an arrest.  But there, it at least attempted to justify the search using the booking exception’s interest in identifying arrestees.  569 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 11–18); id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 4–6) (Scalia, J., dissenting).  Here, the Court lacks even the pretense of attempting to situate breath searches within the narrow and weighty law enforcement needs that have historically justified the limited use of warrantless searches.  I fear that if the Court continues down this road, the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement will become nothing more than a suggestion.Notes1 Because I see no justification for warrantless blood or warrantless breath tests, I also dissent from the parts of the majority opinion that justify its conclusions with respect to blood tests on the availability of warrantless breath tests.  See ante, at 33-34.2 The Court is wrong to suggest that because the States are seeking an extension of the “existing” search-incident-to-arrest exception rather than the “creation” of a new exception for breath searches, this Court need not determine whether the governmental interest in these searches can be accomplished without excusing the warrant requirement. Ante, at 26. To the contrary, as the very sentence the Court cites il-lustrates, the question is always whether the particular “type ofsearch in question” is reasonable if conducted without a warrant.  Camara, 387 U. S., at 533.  To answer that question, in every case, courts must ask whether the “burden of obtaining a warrant is likely to frustrate the governmental purpose behind the search.”  Ibid.  This question may be answered based on existing doctrine, or it may require the creation of new doctrine, but it must always be asked.3 The Court quibbles with our unremarkable statement that the categorical search-incident-to-arrest doctrine and the case-by-case exigent circumstances doctrine are part of the same framework by arguing that a footnote in McNeely was “careful to note that the decision did not address any other exceptions to the warrant requirement.”  Ante, at 26-27 (citing McNeely, 569 U. S., at ___, n. 3 (slip op., at 7, n. 3)).  That footnote explains the difference between categorical exceptions and case-by-case exceptions generally.  Id., at ___, n. 3.  It does nothing to suggest that the two forms of exceptions should not be considered together when analyzing whether it is reasonable to exempt categorically a particular form of search from the Fourth Amendment’s warrant requirement.  4 Although Bernard’s case arises in Minnesota, North Dakota’s similar breath test laws are before this Court.  I therefore consider both States together.5 See NHTSA and International Assn. of Chiefs of Police, DWI Detection and Standardized Field Sobriety Testing Participant Guide, Session 7, p. 20 (2013).6 See Minn. Stat. §169A.51, subd. 2(4) (2014) (“[T]he person has the right to consult with an attorney, but . . . this right is limited to the extent that it cannot unreasonably delay administration of the test”); see also Kuhn v. Commissioner of Public Safety, 488 N. W. 2d 838 (Minn. App. 1992) (finding 24 minutes insufficient time to contact an attorney before being required to submit to a test).7 See Office of Attorney General, Crime Lab. Div., Chemical Test Training Student Manual, Fall 2011–Spring 2012, p. 13 (2011).8 Many tests are conducted at the outer boundaries of that window.  See, e.g., Israel v. Commissioner of Public Safety, 400 N. W. 2d 428 (Minn. App. 1987) (57 minute poststop delay); Mosher v. Commissioner of Public Safety, 2015 WL 3649344 (Minn. App., June 15, 2015) (119 minute postarrest delay); Johnson v. Commissioner of Public Safety, 400 N. W. 2d 195 (Minn. App. 1987) (96 minute postarrest delay); Scheiterlein v. Commissioner of Public Safety, 2014 WL 3021278 (Minn. App., July 7, 2014) (111 minute poststop delay).9 Counsel for North Dakota represented at oral argument that in “larger jurisdictions” it “takes about a half an hour” to obtain a warrant.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 42.  Counsel said that it is sometimes “harder to get somebody on the phone” in rural jurisdictions, but even if it took twice as long, the process of obtaining a warrant would be unlikely to take longer than the inherent delays in preparing a motorist for testing and would be particularly unlikely to reach beyond the 2-hour window within which officers can conduct the test.10 Seven thousand annual arrests divided by 82 judges and magistrate judges is 85.4 extra warrants per judge and magistrate judge per year.  And 85.4 divided by 52 weeks is 1.64 extra warrants per judge and magistrate judge per week.11 Minnesota has about 25,000 drunk-driving incidents each year.  Minn. Dept. of Public Safety, Office of Traffic Safety, Minn. Impaired Driving Facts 2014, p. 2 (2015).  In Minnesota, all judges not exercising probate jurisdiction can issue warrants.  Minn. Stat. §626.06 (2009).  But the state district court judges appear to do the lion’s share of that work.  So, conservatively counting only those judges, the State has 280 judges that can issue warrants.  Minnesota Judicial Branch, Report to the Community 23 (2015).  Similar to North Dakota, that amounts to 1.72 extra warrants per judge per week.12 Because each of North Dakota’s judges and magistrate judges would have to issue an extra 1.64 warrants per week assuming a 100% refusal rate, see supra, at 13, nn. 10–11, they would have to issue an additional 0.79 per week assuming a 48% refusal rate.  Adjusting for the same conservatively high refusal rate, Minnesota would go from 1.72 additional warrants per judge per week to just 0.82.13 See Office of Attorney General, Crime Lab. Div., Approved Method To Conduct Breath Tests With the Intoxilyzer 8000 (BRS–001), pp. 4–6, 8 (2012).14 In weighing the governmental interests at stake here, the Court also downplays the “benefits” that warrants provide for breath tests.  Because this Court has said unequivocally that warrants are the usual safeguard against unreasonable searches, see Katz v. United States, 389 U. S. 347,357 (1967), the legal relevance of this discussion is not clear.  In any event, the Court is wrong to conclude that warrants provide little benefit here.  The Court says that any warrants for breath tests would be issued based on the “characterization” of the police officer, which a “magistrate would be in a poor position to challenge.”  Ante, at 29.  Virtually all warrants will rely to some degree on an officer’s own perception.  The very purpose of warrants is to have a neutral arbiter determine whether inferences drawn from officers’ perceptions and circumstantial evidence are sufficient to justify a search.  Regardless of the particulars, the Court’s mode of analysis is a dangerous road to venture down.  Historically, our default has been that warrants are required.  This part of the Court’s argument instead suggests, without precedent, that their value now has to be proven.

