::SCDB_caseID:: 2015-083
::decision_cite:: 14-1143
::decision_name::  Mullenix v. Luna
::decision_year:: 2015
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															CHADRIN LEE MULLENIX v. BEATRICE LUNA, individually and as representative of theESTATE OF ISRAEL LEIJA, JR., et al.

															on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															No. 14–1143. Decided November 9, 2015

															

															Justice Scalia, concurring in the judgment.

															I join the judgment of the Court, but would not describe what occurred here as the application of deadly force in effecting an arrest.  Our prior cases have reserved that description to the directing of force sufficient to kill at the person of the desired arrestee.  See, e.g., Plumhoff v. Rickard, 572 U. S. ___ (2014); Brosseau v. Haugen,

543 U. S. 194 (2004)
 (per curiam); Tennessee v. Garner,

471 U. S. 1 (1985)
.  It does not assist analysis to refer to all use of force that happens to kill the arrestee as the application of deadly force.  The police might, for example, attempt to stop a fleeing felon’s car by felling a large tree across the road; if they drop the tree too late, so that it crushes the car and its occupant, I would not call that the application of deadly force.  Though it was force sufficient to kill, it was not applied with the object of harming the body of the felon.

															Thus, in Scott v. Harris,

550 U. S. 372 (2007)
, we declined to characterize officer Scott’s use of his pursuing vehicle’s bumper to push the fleeing vehicle off the road as the application of deadly force.  Whether or not it was that, we said, “all that matters is whether Scott’s actions were reasonable.”  Id., at 383.  So also here.  But it stacks the deck against the officer, it seems to me, to describe his action as the application of deadly force.

															It was at least arguable in Scott that pushing a speeding vehicle off the road is targeting its occupant for injury or death.  Here, however, it is conceded that Trooper Mullenix did not shoot to wound or kill the fleeing Leija, nor even to drive Leija’s car off the road, but only to cause the car to stop by destroying its engine.  That was a risky enterprise, as the outcome demonstrated; but determining whether it violated the
 
Fourth Amendment requires us to ask, not whether it was reasonable to kill Leija, but whether it was reasonable to shoot at the engine in light of the risk to Leija.  It distorts that inquiry, I think, to make the question whether it was reasonable for Mullenix to “apply deadly force.”
													
