::SCDB_caseID:: 2015-039
::decision_cite:: 14-1373
::decision_name::  Utah v. Strieff
::decision_year:: 2016
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 14–1373

															_________________

															UTAH, PETITIONER v. EDWARDJOSEPH STRIEFF, JR.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of utah

															[June 20, 2016]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins, dissenting.

															If a police officer stops a person on the street without reasonable suspicion, that seizure violates the
 
Fourth Amendment.  And if the officer pats down the unlawfully detained individual and finds drugs in his pocket, the State may not use the contraband as evidence in a criminal prosecution.  That much is beyond dispute.  The question here is whether the prohibition on admitting evidence dissolves if the officer discovers, after making the stop but before finding the drugs, that the person has an outstanding arrest warrant.  Because that added wrinkle makes no difference under the Constitution, I respectfully dissent.

															This Court has established a simple framework for determining whether to exclude evidence obtained through a
 
Fourth Amendment violation: Suppression is necessary when, but only when, its societal benefits outweigh its costs.  See ante, at 4; Davis v. United States,

564 U. S. 229,
237 (2011)
.  The exclusionary rule serves a crucial function—to deter unconstitutional police conduct.  By barring the use of illegally obtained evidence, courts reduce the temptation for police officers to skirt the
 
Fourth Amendment’s requirements.  See James v. Illinois,

493 U. S. 307,
319 (1990)
.  But suppression of evidence also “exacts a heavy toll”: Its consequence in many cases is to release a criminal without just punishment.  Davis, 564 U. S., at 237.  Our decisions have thus endeavored to strike a sound balance between those two competing considerations—rejecting the “reflexive” impulse to exclude evidence every time an officer runs afoul of the
 
Fourth Amendment, id., at 238, but insisting on suppression when it will lead to “appreciable deterrence” of police misconduct, Herring v. United States,

555 U. S. 135,
141 (2009)
.

															This case thus requires the Court to determine whether excluding the fruits of Officer Douglas Fackrell’s unjustified stop of Edward Strieff would significantly deter police from committing similar constitutional violations in the future.  And as the Court states, that inquiry turns on application of the “attenuation doctrine,” ante, at 5—our effort to “mark the point” at which the discovery of evidence “become[s] so attenuated” from the police misconduct that the deterrent benefit of exclusion drops below its cost.  United States v. Leon,

468 U. S. 897,
911 (1984)
.  Since Brown v. Illinois,

422 U. S. 590
–605 (1975), three factors have guided that analysis.  First, the closer the “temporal proximity” between the unlawful act and the discovery of evidence, the greater the deterrent value of suppression.  Id., at 603.  Second, the more “purpose[ful]” or “flagran[t]” the police illegality, the clearer the necessity, and better the chance, of preventing similar misbehavior.  Id., at 604.  And third, the presence (or absence) of “intervening circumstances” makes a difference: The stronger the causal chain between the misconduct and the evidence, the more exclusion will curb future constitutional violations.  Id., at 603–604.  Here, as shown below, each of those considerations points toward suppression: Nothing in Fackrell’s discovery of an outstanding warrant so attenuated the connection between his wrongful behavior and his detection of drugs as to diminish the exclusionary rule’s deterrent benefits.

															Start where the majority does: The temporal proximity factor, it forthrightly admits, “favors suppressing the evidence.”  Ante, at 6.  After all, Fackrell’s discovery of drugs came just minutes after the unconstitutional stop.  And in prior decisions, this Court has made clear that only the lapse of “substantial time” between the two could favor admission.  Kaupp v. Texas,

538 U. S. 626,
633 (2003)
 (per curiam); see, e.g., Brown, 422 U. S., at 604 (suppressing a confession when “less than two hours” separated it from an unlawful arrest).  So the State, by all accounts, takes strike one.

															Move on to the purposefulness of Fackrell’s conduct, where the majority is less willing to see a problem for what it is.  The majority chalks up Fackrell’s
 
Fourth Amendment violation to a couple of innocent “mistakes.”  Ante, at 8.  But far from a Barney Fife-type mishap, Fackrell’s seizure of Strieff was a calculated decision, taken with so little justification that the State has never tried to defend its legality.  At the suppression hearing, Fackrell acknowledged that the stop was designed for investigatory purposes—i.e., to “find out what was going on [in] the house” he had been watching, and to figure out “what [Strieff] was doing there.”  App. 17–18.  And Fackrell frankly admitted that he had no basis for his action except that Strieff “was coming out of the house.”  Id., at 17.  Plug in Fackrell’s and Strieff’s names, substitute “stop” for “arrest” and “reasonable suspicion” for “probable cause,” and this Court’s decision in Brown perfectly describes this case:

															“[I]t is not disputed that [Fackrell stopped Strieff] without [reasonable suspicion].  [He] later testified that [he] made the [stop] for the purpose of questioning [Strieff] as part of [his] investigation . . . .  The illegality here . . . had a quality of purposefulness.  The impropriety of the [stop] was obvious.  [A]wareness of that fact was virtually conceded by [Fackrell] when [he] repeatedly acknowledged, in [his] testimony, that the purpose of [his] action was ‘for investigation’: [Fackrell] embarked upon this expedition for evidence in the hope that something might turn up.”  422 U. S., at 592, 605 (some internal punctuation altered; footnote, citation, and paragraph break omitted).

															In Brown, the Court held those facts to support suppression—and they do here as well.  Swing and a miss for strike two.

															Finally, consider whether any intervening circumstance “br[oke] the causal chain” between the stop and the evidence.  Ante, at 6.  The notion of such a disrupting event comes from the tort law doctrine of proximate causation.  See Bridge v. Phoenix Bond & Indemnity Co.,

553 U. S. 639
–659 (2008) (explaining that a party cannot “establish[ ] proximate cause” when “an intervening cause break[s] the chain of causation between” the act and the injury); Kerr, Good Faith, New Law, and the Scope of the Exclusionary Rule, 99 Geo. L. J. 1077, 1099 (2011) (
 
Fourth Amendment attenuation analysis “looks to whether the constitutional violation was the proximate cause of the discovery of the evidence”).  And as in the tort context, a circumstance counts as intervening only when it is unforeseeable—not when it can be seen coming from miles away.  See W. Keeton, D. Dobbs, B. Keeton, & D. Owen, Prosser and Keeton on Law of Torts 312 (5th ed. 1984).  For rather than breaking the causal chain, predictable effects (e.g., X leads naturally to Y leads naturally to Z) are its very links.

															And Fackrell’s discovery of an arrest warrant—the only event the majority thinks intervened—was an eminently foreseeable consequence of stopping Strieff.  As Fackrell testified, checking for outstanding warrants during a stop is the “normal” practice of South Salt Lake City police.  App. 18; see also State v. Topanotes, 2003 UT 30, ¶2, 76 P. 3d 1159, 1160 (describing a warrant check as “routine procedure” and “common practice” in Salt Lake City).  In other words, the department’s standard detention procedures—stop, ask for identification, run a check—are partly designed to find outstanding warrants.  And find them they will, given the staggering number of such warrants on the books.  See generally ante, at 7–8 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting).  To take just a few examples: The State of California has 2.5 million outstanding arrest warrants (a number corresponding to about 9% of its adult population); Pennsylvania (with a population of about 12.8 million) contributes 1.4 million more; and New York City (population 8.4 million) adds another 1.2 million.  See Reply Brief 8; Associated Press, Pa. Database, NBC News (Apr. 8, 2007), online at http://goo.gl/3Yq3Nd (as last visited June 17, 2016); N. Y. Times, Oct. 8, 2015, p. A24.[1]  So outstanding warrants do not appear as bolts from the blue.  They are the run-of-the-mill results of police stops—what officers look for when they run a routine check of a person’s identification and what they know will turn up with fair regularity.  In short, they are nothing like what intervening circumstances are supposed to be.[2]  Strike three.

															The majority’s misapplication of Brown’s three-part inquiry creates unfortunate incentives for the police—indeed, practically invites them to do what Fackrell did here.  Consider an officer who, like Fackrell, wishes to stop someone for investigative reasons, but does not have what a court would view as reasonable suspicion.  If the officer believes that any evidence he discovers will be inadmissible, he is likely to think the unlawful stop not worth making—precisely the deterrence the exclusionary rule is meant to achieve.  But when he is told of today’s decision?  Now the officer knows that the stop may well yield admissible evidence: So long as the target is one of the many millions of people in this country with an outstanding arrest warrant, anything the officer finds in a search is fair game for use in a criminal prosecution.  The officer’s incentive to violate the Constitution thus increases: From here on, he sees potential advantage in stopping individuals without reasonable suspicion—exactly the temptation the exclusionary rule is supposed to remove.  Because the majority thus places
 
Fourth Amendment protections at risk, I respectfully dissent.Notes

1


		 What is more, outstanding arrest warrants are not distributed evenly across the population.  To the contrary, they are concentrated incities, towns, and neighborhoods where stops are most likely to occur—and so the odds of any given stop revealing a warrant are even higher than the above numbers indicate.  One study found, for example, that Cincinnati, Ohio had over 100,000 outstanding warrants with only 300,000 residents.  See Helland & Tabarrok, The Fugitive: Evidence on Public Versus Private Law Enforcement from Bail Jumping, 47 J. Law & Econ. 93, 98 (2004).  And as Justice Sotomayor notes, 16,000 of the 21,000 people residing in the town of Ferguson, Missouri have outstanding warrants.  See ante, at 8.
	


2


		 The majority relies on Segura v. United States,

468 U. S. 796 (1984)
, to reach the opposite conclusion, see ante, at 6–7, but that decision lacks any relevance to this case.  The Court there held that the
 
Fourth Amendment violation at issue “did not contribute in any way” to the police’s subsequent procurement of a warrant and discovery of contraband.  468 U. S., at 815.  So the Court had no occasion to consider the question here: What happens when an unconstitutional act in fact leads to a warrant which then leads to evidence?
	


