::SCDB_caseID:: 2014-070
::decision_cite:: 14-556
::decision_name::  Obergefell v. Hodges
::decision_year:: 2015
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 14–556, 14-562, 14-571 and 14–574

															_________________

															JAMES OBERGEFELL, et al., PETITIONERS

															14–556v.

															RICHARD HODGES, DIRECTOR, OHIO DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, et al.;

															

															VALERIA TANCO, et al., PETITIONERS

															14–562v.

															BILL HASLAM, GOVERNOR OF TENNESSEE, et al.;

															

															APRIL DeBOER, et al., PETITIONERS

															14–571v.

															RICK SNYDER, GOVERNOR OF MICHIGAN, et al.; AND

															

															GREGORY BOURKE, et al., PETITIONERS

															14–574v.

															STEVE BESHEAR, GOVERNOR OF KENTUCKY

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[June 26, 2015]

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas join, dissenting.

															Until the federal courts intervened, the American people were engaged in a debate about whether their States should recognize same-sex marriage.[1]  The question in these cases, however, is not what States should do about same-sex marriage but whether the Constitution answers that question for them.  It does not.  The Constitution leaves that question to be decided by the people of each State.

															I

															The Constitution says nothing about a right to same-sex marriage, but the Court holds that the term “liberty” in the Due Process Clause of the
 
Fourteenth Amendment encompasses this right.  Our Nation was founded upon the principle that every person has the unalienable right to liberty, but liberty is a term of many meanings.  For classical liberals, it may include economic rights now limited by government regulation.  For social democrats, it may include the right to a variety of government benefits.  For today’s majority, it has a distinctively postmodern meaning.

															To prevent five unelected Justices from imposing their personal vision of liberty upon the American people, the Court has held that “liberty” under the Due Process Clause should be understood to protect only those rights that are “ ‘deeply rooted in this Nation’s history and tradition.’ ”  Washington v. Glucksberg,

521 U. S. 701
–721 (1997).  And it is beyond dispute that the right to same-sex marriage is not among those rights.  See United States v. Windsor, 570 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (Alito, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 7).  Indeed:

															“In this country, no State permitted same-sex marriage until the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court held in 2003 that limiting marriage to opposite-sex couples violated the State Constitution.  See Goodridge v. Department of Public Health, 440 Mass. 309, 798 N. E. 2d 941.  Nor is the right to same-sex marriage deeply rooted in the traditions of other nations.  No country allowed same-sex couples to marry until the Netherlands did so in 2000.

															“What [those arguing in favor of a constitutional right to same sex marriage] seek, therefore, is not the protection of a deeply rooted right but the recognition of a very new right, and they seek this innovation not from a legislative body elected by the people, but from unelected judges.  Faced with such a request, judges have cause for both caution and humility.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 7–8) (footnote omitted).

															For today’s majority, it does not matter that the right to same-sex marriage lacks deep roots or even that it is contrary to long-established tradition.  The Justices in the majority claim the authority to confer constitutional protection upon that right simply because they believe that it is fundamental.

															II

															Attempting to circumvent the problem presented by the newness of the right found in these cases, the majority claims that the issue is the right to equal treatment.  Noting that marriage is a fundamental right, the majority argues that a State has no valid reason for denying that right to same-sex couples.  This reasoning is dependent upon a particular understanding of the purpose of civil marriage.  Although the Court expresses the point in loftier terms, its argument is that the fundamental purpose of marriage is to promote the well-being of those who choose to marry.  Marriage provides emotional fulfillment and the promise of support in times of need.  And by benefiting persons who choose to wed, marriage indirectly benefits society because persons who live in stable, fulfilling, and supportive relationships make better citizens.  It is for these reasons, the argument goes, that States encourage and formalize marriage, confer special benefits on married persons, and also impose some special obligations.  This understanding of the States’ reasons for recognizing marriage enables the majority to argue that same-sex marriage serves the States’ objectives in the same way as opposite-sex marriage.

															This understanding of marriage, which focuses almost entirely on the happiness of persons who choose to marry, is shared by many people today, but it is not the traditional one.  For millennia, marriage was inextricably linked to the one thing that only an opposite-sex couple can do:  procreate.

															Adherents to different schools of philosophy use different terms to explain why society should formalize marriage and attach special benefits and obligations to persons who marry.  Here, the States defending their adherence to the traditional understanding of marriage have explained their position using the pragmatic vocabulary that characterizes most American political discourse.  Their basic argument is that States formalize and promote marriage, unlike other fulfilling human relationships, in order to encourage potentially procreative conduct to take place within a lasting unit that has long been thought to provide the best atmosphere for raising children.  They thus argue that there are reasonable secular grounds for restricting marriage to opposite-sex couples.

															If this traditional understanding of the purpose of marriage does not ring true to all ears today, that is probably because the tie between marriage and procreation has frayed.  Today, for instance, more than 40% of all children in this country are born to unmarried women.[2]  This development undoubtedly is both a cause and a result of changes in our society’s understanding of marriage.

															While, for many, the attributes of marriage in 21st-century America have changed, those States that do not want to recognize same-sex marriage have not yet given up on the traditional understanding.  They worry that by officially abandoning the older understanding, they may contribute to marriage’s further decay.  It is far beyond the outer reaches of this Court’s authority to say that a State may not adhere to the understanding of marriage that has long prevailed, not just in this country and others with similar cultural roots, but also in a great variety of countries and cultures all around the globe.

															As I wrote in Windsor:

															“The family is an ancient and universal human institution. Family structure reflects the characteristics of a civilization, and changes in family structure and in the popular understanding of marriage and the family can have profound effects.  Past changes in the understanding of marriage—for example, the gradual ascendance of the idea that romantic love is a prerequisite to marriage—have had far-reaching consequences.  But the process by which such consequences come about is complex, involving the interaction of numerous factors, and tends to occur over an extended period of time.

															“We can expect something similar to take place if same-sex marriage becomes widely accepted.  The long-term consequences of this change are not now known and are unlikely to be ascertainable for some time to come.  There are those who think that allowing same-sex marriage will seriously undermine the institution of marriage.  Others think that recognition of same-sex marriage will fortify a now-shaky institution.

															“At present, no one—including social scientists, philosophers, and historians—can predict with any certainty what the long-term ramifications of widespread acceptance of same-sex marriage will be.  And judges are certainly not equipped to make such an assessment.  The Members of this Court have the authority and the responsibility to interpret and apply the Constitution.  Thus, if the Constitution contained a provision guaranteeing the right to marry a person of the same sex, it would be our duty to enforce that right.  But the Constitution simply does not speak to the issue of same-sex marriage.  In our system of government, ultimate sovereignty rests with the people, and the people have the right to control their own destiny.  Any change on a question so fundamental should be made by the people through their elected officials.”  570 U. S., at ___ (dissenting opinion) (slip op., at 8–10) (citations and footnotes omitted).

															III

															Today’s decision usurps the constitutional right of the people to decide whether to keep or alter the traditional understanding of marriage.  The decision will also have other important consequences.

															It will be used to vilify Americans who are unwilling to assent to the new orthodoxy.  In the course of its opinion, the majority compares traditional marriage laws to laws that denied equal treatment for African-Americans and women.  E.g., ante, at 11–13.  The implications of this analogy will be exploited by those who are determined to stamp out every vestige of dissent.

															Perhaps recognizing how its reasoning may be used, the majority attempts, toward the end of its opinion, to reassure those who oppose same-sex marriage that their rights of conscience will be protected.  Ante, at 26–27. We will soon see whether this proves to be true.  I assume that those who cling to old beliefs will be able to whisper their thoughts in the recesses of their homes, but if they repeat those views in public, they will risk being labeled as bigots and treated as such by governments, employers, and schools.

															The system of federalism established by our Constitution provides a way for people with different beliefs to live together in a single nation.  If the issue of same-sex marriage had been left to the people of the States, it is likely that some States would recognize same-sex marriage and others would not.  It is also possible that some States would tie recognition to protection for conscience rights.  The majority today makes that impossible.  By imposing its own views on the entire country, the majority facilitates the marginalization of the many Americans who have traditional ideas.  Recalling the harsh treatment of gays and lesbians in the past, some may think that turnabout is fair play.  But if that sentiment prevails, the Nation will experience bitter and lasting wounds.

															Today’s decision will also have a fundamental effect on this Court and its ability to uphold the rule of law.  If a bare majority of Justices can invent a new right and impose that right on the rest of the country, the only real limit on what future majorities will be able to do is their own sense of what those with political power and cultural influence are willing to tolerate.  Even enthusiastic supporters of same-sex marriage should worry about the scope of the power that today’s majority claims.

															Today’s decision shows that decades of attempts to restrain this Court’s abuse of its authority have failed.  A lesson that some will take from today’s decision is that preaching about the proper method of interpreting the Constitution or the virtues of judicial self-restraint and humility cannot compete with the temptation to achieve what is viewed as a noble end by any practicable means.  I do not doubt that my colleagues in the majority sincerely see in the Constitution a vision of liberty that happens to coincide with their own.  But this sincerity is cause for concern, not comfort.  What it evidences is the deep and perhaps irremediable corruption of our legal culture’s conception of constitutional interpretation.

															Most Americans—understandably—will cheer or lament today’s decision because of their views on the issue of same-sex marriage.  But all Americans, whatever their thinking on that issue, should worry about what the majority’s claim of power portends.Notes

1


		 I use the phrase “recognize marriage” as shorthand for issuing marriage licenses and conferring those special benefits and obligations provided under state law for married persons.
	


2


		 See, e.g., Dept. of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, D. Martin, B. Hamilton, M. Osterman, S. Curtin, & T. Matthews, Births: Final Data for 2013, 64 National Vital Statistics Reports, No. 1, p. 2 (Jan. 15, 2015), online at http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nvsr/nvsr64/nvsr64_01.pdf (all Internet materials as visited June 24, 2015, and available in Clerk of Court’s case file); cf. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS), S. Ventura, Changing Patterns of Nonmartial Childbearing in the United States, NCHS Data Brief, No. 18 (May 2009), online at http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/databrief/db18.pdf.
	


