::SCDB_caseID:: 2014-068
::decision_cite:: 14-6368
::decision_name::  Kingsley v. Hendrickson
::decision_year:: 2015
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 14–6368

															_________________

															MICHAEL B. KINGSLEY, PETITIONER v. STAN HENDRICKSON, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the seventh circuit

															[June 22, 2015]

															Justice Scalia, with whom The Chief Justice and Justice Thomas join, dissenting.

															The Constitution contains no freestanding prohibition of excessive force.  There are, however, four constitutional provisions that we have said forbid the use of excessive force in certain circumstances.  The
 
Fourth Amendment prohibits it when it makes a search or seizure “unreason-able.”  The
 
Eighth Amendment prohibits it when it constitutes “cruel and unusual” punishment.  The Fifth and
 
Fourteenth Amendments prohibit it (or, for that matter, any use of force) when it is used to “deprive” someone of “life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.”

															This is a
 
Fourteenth Amendment case.  The
 
Fifth Amendment applies only to federal actors; Kingsley forfeited any argument under the
 
Fourth Amendment by failing to raise it below; and he acknowledges that the
 
Eighth Amendment standard is inapplicable, Brief for Petitioner 27, n. 8.  The only question before us is whether a pretrial detainee’s due process rights are violated when “the force purposely or knowingly used against him [is] objectively unreasonable.”  Ante, at 6.  In my view, the answer is no.  Our cases hold that the intentional infliction of punishment upon a pretrial detainee may violate the
 
Fourteenth Amendment; but the infliction of “objectively unreasonable” force, without more, is not the intentional infliction of punishment.

															In Bell v. Wolfish,

441 U. S. 520 (1979)
, we held that the Due Process Clause forbids holding pretrial detainees in conditions that “amount to punishment.”  Id., at 535.  Conditions amount to punishment, we explained, when they are “imposed for the purpose of punishment.”  Id., at 538.  Acting with the intent to punish means taking a “ ‘deliberate act intended to chastise or deter.’ ”  Wilson v. Seiter,

501 U. S. 294,
300 (1991)
 (quoting Duckworth v. Franzen, 780 F. 2d 645, 652 (CA7 1985)); see also Bell, supra, at 537–538.  The Court in Bell recognized that intent to punish need not be “expressed,” 441 U. S. at 538, but may be established with circumstantial evidence.  More specifically, if the condition of confinement being challenged “is not reasonably related to a legitimate goal—if it is arbitrary or purposeless—a court permissibly may infer that the purpose of the governmental action is punishment.”  Id., at 539.  We endorsed the same inference when we applied Bell’s intent-to-punish test in challenges brought by pretrial detainees against jailhouse security policies, id., at 560–562; Block v. Rutherford,

468 U. S. 576
–584 (1984), and statutes permitting pre-trial detention, Schall v. Martin,

467 U. S. 253,
255,
269 (1984)
; United States v. Salerno,

481 U. S. 739
–747 (1987).

															In light of these cases, I agree with the Court that “the Due Process Clause protects a pretrial detainee from the use of excessive force that amounts to punishment.”  Graham v. Connor,

490 U. S. 386,
395, n.
10 (1989)
 (citing Bell, supra, at 535–539).  I disagree, however, that any intentional application of force that is objectively unreasonable in degree is a use of excessive force that “amount[s] to punishment.”  Bell, 441 U. S., at 535.  The Court reaches that conclusion by misreading Bell as forbidding States to take any harmful action against pretrial detainees that is not “reasonably related to a legitimate goal.”  Id., at 539.

															Bell endorsed this “reasonable relation” inference in the context of a challenge to conditions of a confinement—specifically, challenges to the State’s policy of housing two people in each cell, id., at 528, and various security policies, id., at 548–549, 553, 555, 558, 560–562.  The conditions in which pretrial detainees are held, and the security policies to which they are subject, are the result of considered deliberation by the authority imposing the detention.  If those conditions and policies lack any reasonable relationship to a legitimate, nonpunitive goal, it is logical to infer a punitive intent.  And the same logic supports finding a punitive intent in statutes authorizing detention that lacks any reasonable relationship to a valid government interest.  Schall, supra, at 269; Salerno, supra, at 746–747.

															It is illogical, however, automatically to infer punitive intent from the fact that a prison guard used more force against a pretrial detainee than was necessary.  That could easily have been the result of a misjudgment about the degree of force required to maintain order or protect other inmates, rather than the product of an intent to punish the detainee for his charged crime (or for any other behavior).  An officer’s decision regarding how much force to use is made “in haste, under pressure, and frequently without the luxury of a second chance,” Hudson v. Mc-Millian,

503 U. S. 1,
6 (1992)
 (internal quotation marks omitted), not after the considered thought that precedes detention-policy determinations like those at issue in Bell, Block, Schall, and Salerno.  That an officer used more force than necessary might be evidence that he acted with intent to punish, but it is no more than that.

															In sum: Bell makes intent to punish the focus of its due-process analysis.  Objective reasonableness of the force used is nothing more than a heuristic for identifying this intent.  That heuristic makes good sense for considered decisions by the detaining authority, but is much weaker in the context of excessive-force cl+aims.  Kingsley does not argue that respondents actually intended to punish him, and his reliance on Bell to infer such an intent is misplaced.

															Kingsley claims that “the protections of due process . . . extend beyond the narrow context of ‘punishment.’ ”  Brief for Petitioner 15.  Unquestionably.  A State would plainly violate the Due Process Clause if it extended a detainee’s confinement because it believed him mentally ill (not as “punishment”), without giving him the constitutionally guaranteed processes that must precede the deprivation of liberty.  But Kingsley does not claim deprivation of liberty in that normal sense of that word—the right to walk about free.  He claims that the Due Process Clause confers, on pretrial detainees, a substantive “liberty” interest that consists of freedom from objectively unreasonable force.  Kingsley seeks relief, in other words, under the doctrine of “substantive due process,” through which we have occasionally recognized “liberty” interests other than freedom from incarceration or detention, that “cannot be limited at all, except by provisions that are ‘narrowly tailored to serve a compelling state interest.’ ”  Kerry v. Din, ante, at 6 (plurality opinion) (quoting Reno v. Flores,

507 U. S. 292
–302 (1993)).

															Even if one believed that the right to process can confer the right to substance in particular cases, Kingsley’s interest is not one of the “fundamental liberty interests” that substantive due process protects.  We have said that that doctrine protects only those liberty interests that, carefully described, are “objectively, deeply rooted in this Nation’s history and tradition, and implicit in the concept of ordered liberty, such that neither liberty nor justice would exist if they were sacrificed.”  Washington v. Glucksberg,

521 U. S. 702
–721 (1997) (citations and internal quotation marks omitted).  Carefully described, the liberty interest Kingsley asserts is the right of pretrial detainees to be free from the application of force that is more than is objectively required to further some legitimate, nonpunitive, governmental interest.  He does not argue (nor could he) that this asserted interest could pass the test announced in Glucksberg.

															I conclude by emphasizing that our Constitution is not the only source of American law.  There is an immense body of state statutory and common law under which individuals abused by state officials can seek relief.  Kingsley himself, in addition to suing respondents for excessive force under

42 U. S. C. §1983, brought a state-law claim for assault and battery.  744 F. 3d 443, 446, n. 6 (CA7 2014).  The Due Process Clause is not “a font of tort law to be superimposed upon” that state system.  Daniels v. Williams,

474 U. S. 327,
332 (1986)
 (quoting Paul v. Davis,

424 U. S. 693,
701 (1976)
).  Today’s majority overlooks this in its tender-hearted desire to tortify the
 
Fourteenth Amendment.
													
