::SCDB_caseID:: 2015-042
::decision_cite:: 14-614
::decision_name::  Hughes v. Talen Energy Mktg., LLC
::decision_year:: 2016
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 14–614 and 14–623

															_________________

															W. KEVIN HUGHES, CHAIRMAN, MARYLAND PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION, et al., PETITIONERS

															14–614v.

															TALEN ENERGY MARKETING, LLC, fka PPL ENERGYPLUS, LLC, et al.

															

															CPV MARYLAND, LLC, PETITIONER

															14–623v.

															TALEN ENERGY MARKETING, LLC, fka PPL ENERGYPLUS, LLC, et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															[April 19, 2016]

															Justice Sotomayor, concurring.

															I write separately to clarify my understanding of the pre-emption principles that should guide this Court’s analysis of the Federal Power Act and that underpin its conclusion in these cases.

															The process through which consumers obtain energy stretches across state and federal regulatory domains.  The Federal Power Act authorizes the States to regulate energy production.

16 U. S. C. §824(b).  It then instructs the Federal Government to step in and regulate wholesale purchases and energy transportation.  §824(a).  Finally,it allows the States to assume control over the ultimate sale of energy to consumers.  §824(b).  In short, theFederal Power Act, like all collaborative federalism stat-utes, envisions a federal-state relationship marked by interdependence.

															Pre-emption inquiries related to such collaborative programs are particularly delicate.  This Court has said that where “coordinate state and federal efforts exist within a complementary administrative framework, and in the pursuit of common purposes, the case for federal pre-emption becomes a less persuasive one.”  New York State Dept. of Social Servs. v. Dublino,

413 U. S. 405,
421 (1973)
.  That is not to say that pre-emption has no role in such programs, but courts must be careful not to confuse the “congressionally designed interplay between state and federal regulation,” Northwest Central Pipeline Corp. v. State Corporation, Comm’n of Kan.,

489 U. S. 493,
518 (1989)
, for impermissible tension that requires pre-emption under the Supremacy Clause.  

															In this context, therefore, our general exhortation not to rely on a talismanic pre-emption vocabulary applies with special force.  See Hines v. Davidowitz,

312 U. S. 52,
67 (1941)
 (“This Court . . . has made use of the following expressions: conflicting; contrary to; occupying the field; repugnance; difference; irreconcilability; inconsistency; violation; curtailment; and interference.  But none of these expressions provides an infallible constitutional test or an exclusive constitutional yardstick” (footnote omitted)).

															I understand today’s opinion to reflect these principles.  Using the purpose of the Federal Power Act as the “ultimate touchstone” of its pre-emption inquiry, Altria Group, Inc. v. Good,

555 U. S. 70,
76 (2008)
, rather than resting on generic pre-emption frameworks unrelated to the Federal Power Act, the Court holds that Maryland has impermissibly impeded the performance of one of FERC’s core regulatory duties.  Ensuring “just and reasonable” wholesale rates is a central purpose of the Act.  See 16 §824d(a).  Pursuant to its mandate to set such rates, FERC has approved the PJM Interconnection capacity auction as the proper mechanism to determine the “just and reasonable” rate for the sale of petitioner CPV Maryland, LLC’s energy at wholesale.  Ante, at 12.  Maryland, however, has acted to guarantee CPV a rate different from FERC’s “just and reasonable” rate and has thus contravened the goals of the Federal Power Act.  Ibid.  Such actions must be preempted. Mississippi Power & Light Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Moore,

487 U. S. 354,
374 (1988)
 (“States may not regulate in areas where FERC has properly exercised its jurisdiction to determine just and reasonable wholesale rates”).  The Court, however, also rightly recognizes the importance of protecting the States’ ability to contribute, within their regulatory domain, to the Federal Power Act’s goal of ensuring a sustainable supply of efficient and price-effective energy.  Ante, at 15.

															Endorsing those conclusions, I join the Court’s opinion in full.
													
