::SCDB_caseID:: 2015-009
::decision_cite:: 14-857
::decision_name::  Campbell-Ewald v. Gomez
::decision_year:: 2016
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 14–857

															_________________

															CAMPBELL-EWALD COMPANY, PETITIONERv. JOSE GOMEZ

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[January 20, 2016]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Scalia and Justice Alito join, dissenting.

															This case is straightforward.  Jose Gomez alleges that the marketing firm Campbell-Ewald (Campbell) sent him text messages without his permission, and he requests relief under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act.  That Act permits consumers to recover statutory damages for unauthorized text messages.  Based on Gomez’s allegations, the maximum that he could recover under the Act is $1500 per text message, plus the costs of filing suit.  Campbell has offered to pay Gomez that amount, but it turns out he wants more.  He wants a federal court to say he is right.

															The problem for Gomez is that the federal courts exist to resolve real disputes, not to rule on a plaintiff’s entitlement to relief already there for the taking.  As this Court has said, “[n]o principle is more fundamental to the judiciary’s proper role in our system of government than the constitutional limitation of federal-court jurisdiction to actual cases or controversies.”  Raines v. Byrd,

521 U. S. 811,
818 (1997)
 (quoting Simon v. Eastern Ky. Welfare Rights Organization,

426 U. S. 26,
37 (1976)
).  If there is no actual case or controversy, the lawsuit is moot, and the power of the federal courts to declare the law has come to an end.  Here, the District Court found that Campbell agreed to fully satisfy Gomez’s claims.  That makes the case moot, and Gomez is not entitled to a ruling on the merits of a moot case.

															I respectfully dissent.

															I

															A

															In 1793, President George Washington sent a letter to Chief Justice John Jay and the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, asking for the opinion of the Court on the rights and obligations of the United States with respect to the war between Great Britain and France.  The Supreme Court politely—but firmly—refused the request, concluding that “the lines of separation drawn by the Constitution between the three departments of the government” pro-hibit the federal courts from issuing such advisory opinions.  3 Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay 486–489 (H. Johnston ed. 1890–1893).

															That prohibition has remained “the oldest and most consistent thread in the federal law of justiciability.”  Flast v. Cohen,

392 U. S. 83,
96 (1968)
 (internal quotation marks omitted).  And for good reason.  It is derived from Article III of the Constitution, which limits the authority of the federal courts to the adjudication of “Cases” or “Controversies.”  U. S. Const., Art. III, §2.  The case or controversy requirement is at once an important check on the powers of the Federal Judiciary and the source of those powers.  In Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 177 (1803), Chief Justice Marshall established that it is “the province and duty of the judicial department to say what the law is.”  Not because there is a provision in the Constitution that says so—there isn’t.  Instead, the federal courts wield that power because they have to decide cases and controversies, and “[t]hose who apply [a] rule to particular cases, must of necessity expound and interpret that rule.”  Ibid.  Federal courts may exercise their authority “only in the last resort, and as a necessity in the determination of real, earnest and vital controversy between individuals.”  Chicago & Grand Trunk R. Co. v. Wellman,

143 U. S. 339,
345 (1892)
; see also Allen v. Wright,

468 U. S. 737,
752 (1984)
.  “If a dispute is not a proper case or controversy, the courts have no business deciding it, or expounding the law in the course of doing so.”  DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno,

547 U. S. 332,
341 (2006)
.

															A case or controversy exists when both the plaintiff and the defendant have a “personal stake” in the lawsuit.  Camreta v. Greene,

563 U. S. 692,
701 (2011)
.  A plaintiff demonstrates a personal stake by establishing standing to sue, which requires a “personal injury fairly traceable to the defendant’s allegedly unlawful conduct and likely to be redressed by the requested relief.”  Allen, 468 U. S., at 751.  A defendant demonstrates a personal stake through “an ongoing interest in the dispute.”  Camreta, 563 U. S., at 701.

															The personal stake requirement persists through every stage of the lawsuit.  It “is not enough that a dispute was very much alive when suit was filed”; the “parties must continue to have a personal stake in the outcome of the lawsuit” to prevent the case from becoming moot.  Lewis v. Continental Bank Corp.,

494 U. S. 472
–478 (1990) (internal quotation marks omitted).  If either the plaintiff or the defendant ceases to have a concrete interest in the outcome of the litigation, there is no longer a live case or controversy.  A federal court that decides the merits of such a case runs afoul of the prohibition on advisory opinions.

															B

															Applying those basic principles to this case, it is clear that the lawsuit is moot.  All agree that at the time Gomez filed suit, he had a personal stake in the litigation.  In his complaint, Gomez alleged that he suffered an injury in fact when he received unauthorized text messages from Campbell.  To remedy that injury, he requested $1500 in statutory damages for each unauthorized text message.  (It was later determined that he received only one text message.)

															What happened next, however, is critical: After Gomez’s initial legal volley, Campbell did not return fire.  Instead, Campbell responded to the complaint with a freestanding offer to pay Gomez the maximum amount that he could recover under the statute: $1500 per unauthorized text message, plus court costs.  Campbell also made an offer of judgment on the same terms under Rule 68 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which permits a defendant to recover certain attorney’s fees if the Rule 68 offer is unaccepted and the plaintiff later recovers no more than the amount of the offer.  Crucially, the District Court found that the “parties do not dispute” that Campbell’s Rule 68 offer—reflecting the same terms as the freestanding offer—“would have fully satisfied the individual claims asserted, or that could have been asserted,” by Gomez.  805 F. Supp. 2d 923, 927 (CD Cal. 2011).

															When a plaintiff files suit seeking redress for an alleged injury, and the defendant agrees to fully redress that injury, there is no longer a case or controversy for pur-poses of Article III.  After all, if the defendant is willing to remedy the plaintiff’s injury without forcing him to litigate, the plaintiff cannot demonstrate an injury in need of redress by the court, and the defendant’s interests are not adverse to the plaintiff.  At that point, there is no longer any “necessity” to “expound and interpret” the law, Marbury, 1 Cranch, at 177, and the federal courts lack authority to hear the case.  That is exactly what happened here: Once Campbell offered to fully remedy Gomez’s injury, there was no longer any “necessity” for the District Court to hear the merits of his case, rendering the lawsuit moot.[1]

															It is true that although Campbell has offered Gomez full relief, Campbell has not yet paid up.  That does not affect the mootness inquiry under the facts of this case.  Campbell is a multimillion dollar company, and the settlement offer here is for a few thousand dollars.  The settlement offer promises “prompt payment,” App. to Pet. for Cert. 59a, and it would be mere pettifoggery to argue that Campbell might not make good on that promise.  In any event, to the extent there is a question whether Campbell is willing and able to pay, there is an easy answer: have the firm deposit a certified check with the trial court.

															II

															The Court today holds that Gomez’s lawsuit is not moot.  According to the Court, “An unaccepted settlement offer—like any unaccepted contract offer—is a legal nullity, with no operative effect.”  Ante, at 7–8 (quoting Genesis HealthCare Corp. v. Symczyk, 569 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (Kagan, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 3)).  And so, the Court concludes, if a plaintiff does not feel like accepting the defendant’s complete offer of relief, the lawsuit cannot be moot because it is as if no offer had ever been made.

															But a plaintiff is not the judge of whether federal litigation is necessary, and a mere desire that there be federal litigation—for whatever reason—does not make it necessary.  When a lawsuit is filed, it is up to the federal court to determine whether a concrete case or controversy exists between the parties.  That remains true throughout the litigation.  Article III does not require the parties to affirmatively agree on a settlement before a case becomes moot.  This Court has long held that when a defendant unilaterally remedies the injuries of the plaintiff, the case is moot—even if the plaintiff disagrees and refuses to settle the dispute, and even if the defendant continues to deny liability.

															In California v. San Pablo & Tulare R. Co.,

149 U. S. 308 (1893)
, the State of California brought suit against a railroad company for back taxes.  Before oral argument in this Court, the railroad offered to pay California the entire sum at issue, “together with interest, penalties and costs.”  Id., at 313.  Although California continued to litigate the case despite the railroad’s offer of complete relief, the Court concluded that the offer to pay the full sum, in addition to “the deposit of the money in a bank, which by a statute of the State ha[s] the same effect as actual payment and receipt of the money,” mooted the case.  Id., at 314.

															The Court grounded its decision in San Pablo on the prohibition against advisory opinions, explaining that “the court is not empowered to decide moot questions or abstract propositions, or to declare, for the government of future cases, principles or rules of law which cannot affect the result as to the thing in issue in the case.”  Ibid.  Although the majority here places great weight on Gomez’s rejection of Campbell’s offer of complete relief, San Pablo did not consider the agreement of the parties to be relevant to the question of mootness.  As the Court said then, “[n]o stipulation of parties or counsel, whether in the case before the court or in any other case, can enlarge the power, or affect the duty, of the court.”  Ibid.

															More recently, in Alvarez v. Smith,

558 U. S. 87 (2009)
, the Court found that a plaintiff’s refusal to settle a case did not prevent it from becoming moot.  In Alvarez, Chi-cago police officers had seized vehicles and cash from six individuals.  The individuals filed suit against the city and two officials, claiming that they were entitled to a timely post-seizure hearing to seek the return of their property.  The Court of Appeals ruled for the plaintiffs, and this Court granted certiorari.

															At oral argument, the parties informed the Court that the cars and some of the cash had been returned, and that the plaintiffs no longer sought the return of the remainder of the cash.  Id., at 92.  Nevertheless, the plaintiffs—much like Gomez—“continue[d] to dispute the lawfulness of the State’s hearing procedures.”  Id., at 93.  Although the plaintiffs refused to settle the case, and the defendants would not concede that the hearing procedures were unlawful, the Court held that the case was moot.  As the Court explained, the “dispute is no longer embedded in any actual controversy about the plaintiffs’ particular legal rights,” and “a dispute solely about the meaning of a law, abstracted from any concrete actual or threatened harm, falls outside the scope of the constitutional words ‘Cases’ and ‘Controversies.’ ”  Ibid.

															The Court reached a similar conclusion in Already, LLC v. Nike, Inc., 568 U. S. ___ (2013).  In that case, Nike filed suit alleging that two of Already’s athletic shoes violated Nike’s Air Force 1 trademark.  In response, Already filed a counterclaim alleging that Nike’s trademark was invalid.  Instead of litigating the counterclaim, Nike issued a unilateral covenant not to sue Already.  In that covenant, Nike “unconditionally and irrevocably” promised not to raise any trademark or unfair competition claims against Already based on its current shoe designs or any future “colorable imitations” of those designs.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  Nike did not, however, admit that its trademark was invalid.  After issuing the covenant, Nike asked the District Court to dismiss the counterclaim as moot.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 2).

															Already did not agree to Nike’s covenant, and it did not view the covenant as sufficient to protect it from future trademark litigation.  Already argued that without judicial resolution of the dispute, “Nike’s trademarks [would] hang over Already’s operations like a Damoclean sword.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 9).  This Court disagreed and dismissed the suit.  It found that because Nike had demonstrated “that the covenant encompasses all of [Nike’s] allegedly unlawful conduct,” and that the “challenged conduct cannot reasonably be expected to recur,” the counterclaim was moot.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 7–8).

															These precedents reflect an important constitutional principle: The agreement of the plaintiff is not required to moot a case.  In San Pablo, California did not accept the railroad’s money in exchange for settling the State’s legal claims; in Alvarez, the plaintiffs did not receive their cars and cash in return for an agreement to stop litigating the case; and in Already, the eponymous shoe company never agreed to Nike’s covenant not to sue.  In each of those cases, despite the plaintiff’s desire not to settle, the Court held that the lawsuit was moot.

															The majority attempts to distinguish these precedents by emphasizing that the plaintiffs in all three cases received complete relief, but that is not the point.  I had thought that the theory of the Court’s opinion was that acceptance is required before complete relief will moot a case.  But consider the majority’s discussion of Already: What did Nike’s covenant do?  It “afforded Already blanket protection from future trademark litigation.”  Ante, at 10, n. 5.  What happened as a result of this complete relief ?  “The risk that underpinned Already’s standing” thus “ceased to exist.”  Ibid.  Even though what?  Even though “Nike’s covenant was unilateral,” and not accepted by Already.  Ibid.

															The majority is correct that because Gomez did not accept Campbell’s settlement, it is a “legal nullity” as a matter of contract law.  The question, however, is not whether there is a contract; it is whether there is a case or controversy under Article III.[2]  If the defendant is willing to give the plaintiff everything he asks for, there is no case or controversy to adjudicate, and the lawsuit is moot.[3]

															*  *  *

															The case or controversy requirement serves an essential purpose: It ensures that the federal courts expound the law “only in the last resort, and as a necessity.”  Allen, 468 U. S., at 752 (internal quotation marks omitted).  It is the necessity of resolving a live dispute that reconciles the exercise of profound power by unelected judges with the principles of self-governance, ensuring adherence to “the proper—and properly limited—role of the courts in a democratic society.”  Id., at 750 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															There is no such necessity here.  As the District Court found, Campbell offered Gomez full relief.  Although Gomez nonetheless wants to continue litigating, the issue is not what the plaintiff wants, but what the federal courts may do.  It is up to those courts to decide whether each party continues to have the requisite personal stake in the lawsuit, and if not, to dismiss the case as moot.  The Court today takes that important responsibility away from the federal courts and hands it to the plaintiff.

															The good news is that this case is limited to its facts.  The majority holds that an offer of complete relief is insufficient to moot a case.  The majority does not say that payment of complete relief leads to the same result.  For aught that appears, the majority’s analysis may have come out differently if Campbell had deposited the offered funds with the District Court.  See ante, at 11–12.  This Court leaves that question for another day—assuming there are other plaintiffs out there who, like Gomez, won’t take “yes” for an answer.Notes

1


		 The Court does not reach the question whether Gomez’s claim for class relief prevents this case from becoming moot.  The majority nev-ertheless suggests that Campbell “sought to avoid a potential ad-verse decision, one that could expose it to damages a thousand-fold larger than the bid Gomez declined to accept.”  Ante, at 11.  But under this Court’s precedents Gomez does not have standing to seek relief based solely on the alleged injuries of others, and Gomez’s interest in sharing attorney’s fees among class members or in obtaining a class incentive award does not create Article III standing.  See Lewis v. Continental Bank Corp.,

494 U. S. 472,
480 (1990)
 (An “interest in attorney’s fees is, of course, insufficient to create an Article III case or controversy where none exists on the merits of the underlying claim.”); Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment,

523 U. S. 83,
107 (1998)
 (“Obviously, however, a plaintiff cannot achieve standing to litigate a substantive issue by bringing suit for the cost of bringing suit.  The litigation must give the plaintiff some other benefit besides reimbursement of costs that are a byproduct of the litigation itself.”).
	


2


		 The majority suggests that this case is analogous to U. S. Bancorp Mortgage Co. v. Bonner Mall Partnership,

513 U. S. 18 (1994)
, where the Court declined to vacate a lower court decision that became moot on certiorari when the parties voluntarily settled the case.  Bancorp is inapposite—it involves the equitable powers of the courts to vacate judgments in moot cases, not the Article III question whether a case is moot in the first place.  The premise of Bancorp is that it is up to the federal courts—and not the parties—to decide what to do once a case becomes moot.  The majority’s position, in contrast, would leave it to the plaintiff to decide whether a case is moot.
	


3


		 To further support its Article III-by-contract theory of the case, the Court looks to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 68, which states that an unaccepted offer of judgment “is considered withdrawn.”  Rule 68(b).  But Campbell made Gomez both a Rule 68 offer and a freestanding settlement offer.  By its terms, Rule 68 does not apply to the latter.  The majority’s only argument with respect to the freestanding settlement offer is that under the rules of contract law, an unaccepted offer is a “legal nullity.”  Ante, at 7.  As explained, however, under the principles of Article III, an unaccepted offer of complete relief moots a case.
	


