::SCDB_caseID:: 2015-008
::decision_cite:: 14-840
::decision_name::  Fed. Energy Regulatory Comm'n v. Elec. Power Supply Ass'n
::decision_year:: 2016
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 14–840 and 14–841

															_________________

															FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION, PETITIONER

															14–840v.

															ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY ASSOCIATION, et al.

															

															ENERNOC, INC., et al., PETITIONERS

															14–841v.

															ELECTRIC POWER SUPPLY ASSOCIATION, et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit

															[January 25, 2016]

															

															Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Thomas joins, dissenting.

															I believe the Federal Power Act (FPA or Act),

16 U. S. C. §791a et seq., prohibits the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) from regulating the demand response of retail purchasers of power.  I respectfully dissent from the Court’s holding to the contrary.

															I

															A

															I agree with the majority that FERC has the authority to regulate practices “affecting” wholesale rates.  §§824d(a), 824e(a); Mississippi Power & Light Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Moore,

487 U. S. 354,
371 (1988)
.  I also agree that this so-called “affecting” jurisdiction cannot be limitless.  And I suppose I could even live with the Court’s “direct effect” test as a reasonable limit.  Ante, at 15.  But as the majority recognizes, ante, at 17, that extratextual limit on the “affecting” jurisdiction merely supplements, not supplants, limits that are already contained in the statutory text and structure.  I believe the Court misconstrues the primary statutory limit.  (Like the majority, I think that deference under Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,

467 U. S. 837 (1984)
, is unwarranted because the statute is clear.)

															The Act grants FERC authority to regulate the “generation . . . [and] transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and the sale of such energy at wholesale.”  §824(a).  Yet the majority frames the issue thusly: “[T]o uphold the [r]ule, we also must determine that it does not regulate retail electricity sales.”  Ante, at 17.  That formulation inverts the proper inquiry.  The pertinent question under the Act is whether the rule regulates sales “at wholesale.”  If so, it falls within FERC’s regulatory authority.  If not, the rule is unauthorized whether or not it happens to regulate “retail electricity sales”; for, with exceptions not material here, the FPA prohibits FERC from regulating “any other sale of electric energy” that is not at wholesale.  §824(b)(1) (emphasis added).  (The majority wisely ignores FERC’s specious argument that the demand-response rule does not regulate any sale, wholesale or retail.  See Brief for Petitioner in No. 14–840, p. 39.  Paying someone not to conclude a transaction that otherwise would without a doubt have been concluded is most assuredly a regulation of that transaction.  Cf. Gonzales v. Raich,

545 U. S. 1
–40 (2005) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment).)

															Properly framing the inquiry matters not because I think there exists “some undefined category of . . . electricity sales” that is “non-retail [and] non-wholesale,” ante, at 18, n. 7,[1] but because a proper framing of the inquiry is important to establish the default presumption regarding the scope of FERC’s authority.  While the majority would find every sale of electric energy to be within FERC’s authority to regulate unless the transaction is demonstrably a retail sale, the statute actually excludes from FERC’s jurisdiction all sales of electric energy except those that are demonstrably sales at wholesale.

															So what, exactly, is a “sale of electric energy at wholesale”?  We need not guess, for the Act provides a definition: “a sale of electric energy to any person for resale.”  §824(d) (emphasis added).  No matter how many times the majority incants and italicizes the word “wholesale,” ante, at 19–20, nothing can change the fact that the vast majority of (and likely all) demand-response participants—“[a]ggregators of multiple users of electricity, as well as large-scale individual users like factories or big-box stores,” ante, at 7—do not resell electric energy; they consume it themselves.  FERC’s own definition of demand response is aimed at energy consumers, not resellers.  18 CFR §35.28(b)(4) (2015).

															It is therefore quite beside the point that the challenged “[r]ule addresses—and addresses only—transactions occurring on the wholesale market,” ante, at 19.  For FERC’s regulatory authority over electric-energy sales depends not on which “market” the “transactions occu[r] on” (whatever that means), but rather on the identity of the putative purchaser.  If the purchaser is one who resells electric energy to other customers, the transaction is one “at wholesale” and thus within FERC’s authority.  If not, then not.  Or so, at least, says the statute.  As we long ago said of the parallel provision in the Natural Gas Act,

15 U. S. C. §717, “[t]he line of the statute [i]s thus clear and complete.  It cut[s] sharply and cleanly between sales for resale and direct sales for consumptive uses.  No exceptions [a]re made in either category for particular uses, quantities, or otherwise.”  Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co. v. Public Serv. Comm’n of Ind.,

332 U. S. 507,
517 (1947)
.  The majority makes no textual response to this plain reading of the statute.

															The demand-response bidders here indisputably do not resell energy to other customers.  It follows that the rule does not regulate electric-energy sales “at wholesale,” and

16 U. S. C. §824(b)(1) therefore forbids FERC to regulate these demand-response transactions.  See New York v. FERC,

535 U. S. 1,
17 (2002)
.  That is so whether or not those transactions “directly affect” wholesale rates; as we recently said in another context, we will not adopt a construction that “needlessly produces a contradiction in the statutory text.”  Shapiro v. McManus, 577 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 4).  A faithful application of that principle would compel the conclusion that FERC may not “do under [§§824d(a) and 824e(a)] what [it] is forbidden to do under [§824(b)(1)].”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).

															B

															The analysis could stop there.  But the majority is wrong even on its own terms, for the rule at issue here does in fact regulate “retail electricity sales,” which are indisputably “matters . . . subject to regulation by the States” and therefore off-limits to FERC.  §824(a); see FPC v. Conway Corp.,

426 U. S. 271,
276 (1976)
; Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co., supra, at 517–518.  The demand-response participants are retail customers—they purchase electric energy solely for their own consumption.  And FERC’s demand-response scheme is intentionally “designed to induce lower consumption of electric energy”—in other words, to induce a reduction in “retail electricity sales”—by offering “incentive payments” to those customers.  18 CFR §35.28(b)(4).  The incentive payments effectively increase the retail price of electric energy for participating customers because they must now account for the opportunity cost of using, as opposed to abstaining from using, more energy.  In other words, it literally costs them more to buy energy on the retail market.  In the court below, FERC conceded that offering credits to retail customers to reduce their electricity consumption “would be an impermissible intrusion into the retail market” because it would in effect regulate retail rates.  753 F. 3d 216, 223 (CADC 2014).  Demand-response incentive payments are identical in substance.

															The majority resists this elementary economic conclusion (notwithstanding its own exhortation to “think back to Econ 101,” ante, at 5).  Why?  Because its self-proclaimed “common-sensical” view dictates otherwise.  Ante, at 22.  Maybe the easiest way to see the majority’s error is to take its own example: an airline passenger who rejects a $300 voucher for taking a later flight.  Consider the following formulation of that example, indistinguish-able in substance from the majority’s formulation.  (Indis-tinguishable because the hypothetical passenger has exactly the same options and outcomes available to him.)  Suppose the airline said to the passenger: “We have proactively canceled your ticket and refunded $400 to your account; and because we have inconvenienced you, we have also deposited an extra $300.  The money is yours to use as you like.  But if you insist on repurchasing a ticket on the same flight, you must not only pay us $400, but return the $300 too.”  Now what is the effective price of the ticket?  Sometimes an allegedly commonsensical intuition is just that—an intuition, often mistaken.

															Moving closer to home, recall that demand-response participants must choose either to purchase a unit of energy at the prevailing retail price (say $10) or to withhold from purchasing that unit and receive instead an incentive payment (of say $5).  The two options thus present a choice between having a unit of energy, on the one hand, and having $15 more in the bank, on the other.  To repeat: take the energy, be $15 poorer; forgo the energy, be $15 richer.  Is that not the very definition of price?  See Black’s Law Dictionary 1380 (10th ed. 2014) (“[t]he amount of money or other consideration asked for or given in exchange for something else”).  In fact, is that not the majority’s definition of price?  Ante, at 21 (“the amount of money a consumer will hand over in exchange for power”).

															In any event, the majority appears to recognize that the effective price is indeed $15—just as the effective price of the airline ticket in the hypothetical is $700.  Ante, at 22–23, n. 9.  That recognition gives away the game.  For FERC is prohibited not just from directly setting or modifying retail prices; it is prohibited from regulating retail sales, no matter the means.  Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co., supra, at 517.  Whether FERC sets the “real” retail price (to use the majority’s idiosyncratic terminology, ante, at 23, n. 9) or the “effective” retail price is immaterial; either way, the rule—by design—induces demand-response participants to forgo retail electric-energy purchases they otherwise would have made.  As noted, even FERC conceded that offering credits to retail customers would impermissibly regulate retail sales.  The majority blithely overlooks this concession in favor of its own my-opic view of retail pricing—all the while evading the incon-venient fact that fiddling with the effective retail price of electric energy, be it through incentive payments or hypothetical credits, regulates retail sales of electric energy no less than does direct ratesetting.

															C

															The majority cites dicta in several of our opinions expressing the assumption that state jurisdiction and federal jurisdiction under FERC cover the field, so that there is no regulatory “gap”; one entity or the other “must have jurisdiction to regulate each and every practice that takes place in the electricity markets.”  Ante, at 27.  The cases that express such a principle, with respect to the Federal Power Act and its predecessor the Natural Gas Act, base it (no surprise) on legislative history.  See, e.g., FPC v. Louisiana Power & Light Co.,

406 U. S. 621,
631 (1972)
; FPC v. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp.,

365 U. S. 1,
19 (1961)
; Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co., 332 U. S., at 517–518, and n. 13.  One would expect the congressional proponents of legislation to assert that it is “comprehensive” and leaves no stone unturned.  But even if one is a fan of legislative history, surely one cannot rely upon such generalities in determining what a statute actually does.  Whether it is “comprehensive” and leaves not even the most minor regulatory “gap” surely depends on what it says and not on what its proponents hoped to achieve.  I cannot imagine a more irrational interpretive principle than the following, upon which the majority evidently relies:

															“[W]hen a dispute arises over whether a given transaction is within the scope of federal or state regulatory authority, we are not inclined to approach the problem negatively, thus raising the possibility that a ‘no man’s land’ will be created.  That is to say, in a borderline case where congressional authority is not explicit we must ask whether state authority can practicably regulate a given area and, if we find that it cannot, then we are impelled to decide that federal authority governs.”  Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp., supra, at 19–20 (citation omitted).

															That extravagant and otherwise-unheard-of method of establishing regulatory jurisdiction was not necessary to the judgments that invoked it, and should disappear in the Court’s memory hole.

															Suppose FERC decides that eliminating the middleman would benefit the public, and therefore promulgates a rule allowing electric-energy generators to sell directly to retail consumers across state lines and fixing generation, transmission, and retail rates for such sales.  I think it obvious this hypothetical scheme would be forbidden to FERC.  Yet just as surely the States could not enact it either, for only FERC has authority to regulate “the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce.”

16 U. S. C. §824(b)(1); see also New York, 535 U. S., at 19–20.  Is this a regulatory “gap”?  Has the generator-to-consumer sales scheme fallen into a regulatory “no man’s land”?  Must FERC therefore be allowed to implement this scheme on its own?  Applying the majority’s logic would yield nothing but “yesses.”  Yet the majority acknowledges that neither FERC nor the States have regulatory jurisdiction over this scheme.  Ante, at 27, n. 10.  Such sales transactions, involving a mix of retail and wholesale players—as the demand-response scheme does—can be regulated (if at all) only by joint action.  I would not call that a “problem,” ante, at 26; I would call it an inevitable consequence of the federal-state division created by the FPA.

															The majority is evidently distraught that affirming the decision below “would . . . extinguish the wholesale demand response program in its entirety.”  Ante, at 27.  Alarmist hyperbole.  Excluding FERC jurisdiction would at most eliminate this particular flavor of FERC-regulated demand response.  Nothing prevents FERC from tweaking its demand-response scheme by requiring incentive payments to be offered to wholesale customers, rather than retail ones.  Brief for Respondent Electric Power Supply Assn. (EPSA) et al. 47–48; Brief for Respondents Midwest Load-Serving Entities 10–11.  And retail-level demand-response programs, run by the States, do and would continue to exist.  See Brief for Respondent EPSA et al. 46–47; Brief for Respondents Midwest Load-Serving Entities 6–11.  In fact Congress seemed to presuppose that States, not FERC, would run such programs: The relevant provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005,

119Stat.
594 et seq., are intended “to encourage States to coordinate, on a regional basis, State energy policies to provide reliable and affordable demand response services.”  §1252(e)(1), id., at 965, codified at

16 U. S. C. §2642 note (emphasis added).  That statute also imposes several duties on the Secretary of Energy to assist States in implementing demand-response programs.  §§1252(e)(2), (e)(3),

119Stat.
965–966.  In context, §1252(f) of the 2005 Act is therefore best read as directing the Secretary to eliminate “unnecessary barriers” to States’ adopting and implementing demand-response systems—and not, as the majority contends,as “praising wholesale demand response” systems to be deployed and regulated by FERC, ante, at 9 (emphasis added).

															Moreover, the rule itself allows States to forbid their retail customers to participate in the existing demand-response scheme.  18 CFR §35.28(g)(1)(i)(A); see Brief for Petitioner in No. 14–840, at 43.  The majority accepts FERC’s argument that this is merely a matter of grace, and claims that it puts the “finishing blow” to respondents’ argument that

16 U. S. C. §824(b)(1) prohibits the scheme.  Ante, at 25.  Quite the contrary.  Remember that the majority believes FERC’s authority derives from 16 U. S. C. §§824d(a) and 824e(a), the grants of “affecting” jurisdiction.  Yet those provisions impose a duty on FERC to ensure that “all rules and regulations affecting or pertaining to [wholesale] rates or charges shall be just and reasonable.”  §824d(a) (emphasis added); see §824e(a) (similar); Conway Corp., 426 U. S., at 277–279.  If inducing retail customers to participate in wholesale demand-response transactions is necessary to render wholesale rates “just and reasonable,” how can FERC, consistent with its statutory mandate, permit States to thwart such participation?  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 20–21, in Hughes v. Talen Energy Marketing, LLC, No. 14–614 etc., now pending before the Court (making an argument similar to ours); cf. New England Power Co. v. New Hampshire,

455 U. S. 331
–341 (1982).  Although not legally relevant, the fact that FERC—ordinarily so jealous of its regulatory authority, see Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae in No. 14–614 etc.—is willing to let States opt out of its demand-response scheme serves to highlight just how far the rule intrudes into the retail electricity market.

															II

															Having found the rule to be within FERC’s authority, the Court goes on to hold that FERC’s choice of compensating demand-response bidders with the “locational marginal price” is not arbitrary and capricious.  There are strong arguments that it is.  Brief for Robert L. Borlick et al. as Amici Curiae 5–34.  Since, however, I believe FERC’s rule is ultra vires I have neither need nor desire to analyze whether, if it were not ultra vires, it would be reasonable.

															*  *  *

															For the foregoing reasons, I respectfully dissent.Notes

1


		 Although the majority dismisses this possibility, in fact it appears to think that demand response is in that category: It rejects the conclusion that the demand-response rule regulates retail sales, ante, at 17–23, yet also implicitly rejects the conclusion that it regulates wholesale sales—otherwise why rely on FERC’s “affecting” jurisdiction to rescue the rule’s legitimacy?
	


