::SCDB_caseID:: 2015-028
::decision_cite:: 14-940
::decision_name::  Evenwel v. Abbott
::decision_year:: 2016
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 14–940

															_________________

															SUE EVENWEL, et al., APPELLANTS v.
GREG ABBOTT, governor of texas, et al.

															on appeal from the united states district
court for the western district of texas

															[April 4, 2016]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas joins
except as to Part III–B, concurring in the judgment.

															The question that the Court must decide in this
case is whether Texas violated the “one-person,
one-vote” principle established in Reynolds v.
Sims, 377 U. S. 533 (1964) , by adopting a legislative
redistricting plan that provides for districts that are roughly
equal in total population. Appellants contend that Texas was
required to create districts that are equal in the number of
eligible voters, but I agree with the Court that Texas’ use
of total population did not violate the one-person, one-vote
rule.

															I

															Both practical considerations and precedent
support the conclusion that the use of total population is
consistent with the one-person, one-vote rule. The decennial census
required by the Constitution tallies total population. Art. I,
§2, cl. 3; Amdt. 14, §2. These statistics are more
reliable and less subject to manipulation and dispute than
statistics concerning eligible voters. Since Reynolds,
States have almost uniformly used total population in attempting to
create legislative districts that are equal in size. And with one
notable exception, Burns v. Richardson, 384
U. S. 73 (1966) , this Court’s post-Reynolds
cases have likewise looked to total population. Moreover, much of
the time, creating districts that are equal in total population
also results in the creation of districts that are at least roughly
equal in eligible voters. I therefore agree that States are
permitted to use total population in redistricting plans.

															II

															Although this conclusion is sufficient to
decide the case before us, Texas asks us to go further and to hold
that States, while generally free to use total population
statistics, are not barred from using eligible voter statistics.
Texas points to Burns, in which this Court held that Hawaii
did not violate the one-person, one-vote principle by adopting a
plan that sought to equalize the number of registered voters in
each district.

															Disagreeing with Texas, the Solicitor General
dismisses Burns as an anomaly and argues that the use of
total population is constitutionally required. The Solicitor
General contends that the one-person, one-vote rule means that all
persons, whether or not they are eligible to vote, are entitled to
equal representation in the legislature. Accordingly, he argues,
legislative districts must be equal in total population even if
that results in districts that are grossly unequal in the number of
eligible voters, a situation that is most likely to arise where
aliens are disproportionately concentrated in some parts of a
State.

															This argument, like that advanced by appellants,
implicates very difficult theoretical and empirical questions about
the nature of representation. For centuries, political theorists
have debated the proper role of representatives,[1] and political scientists have studied the
conduct of legislators and the interests that they actually
advance.[2] We have no need to
wade into these waters in this case, and I would not do so. Whether
a State is permitted to use some measure other than total
population is an important and sensitive question that we can
consider if and when we have before us a state districting plan
that, unlike the current Texas plan, uses something other than
total population as the basis for equalizing the size of
districts.

															III

															A

															The Court does not purport to decide whether a
State may base a districting plan on something other than total
population, but the Court, picking up a key component of the
Solicitor General’s argument, suggests that the use of total
population is supported by the Constitution’s formula for
allocating seats in the House of Representatives among the States.
Because House seats are allocated based on total population, the
Solicitor General argues, the one-person, one-vote principle
requires districts that are equal in total population. I write
separately primarily because I cannot endorse this meretricious
argument.

															First, the allocation of congressional
representation sheds little light on the question presented by the
Solicitor General’s argument because that allocation plainly
violates one person, one vote.[3] This is obviously true with respect to the Senate:
Although all States have equal representation in the Senate, the
most populous State (California) has 66 times as many people as the
least populous (Wyoming). See United States Census 2010, Resident
Population Data,
http://www.census.gov/‌2010census/‌data/‌apportionment-pop-text.php.
And even the allocation of House seats does not comport with one
person, one vote. Every State is entitled to at least one seat in
the House, even if the State’s population is lower than the
average population of House districts nationwide. U. S.
Const., Art. I, §2, cl. 3. Today, North Dakota,
Vermont, and Wyoming all fall into that category. See United States
Census 2010, Apportionment Data,
http://www.census.gov/2010census/data/apportionment-data-text.php.
If one person, one vote applied to allocation of House seats among
States, I very much doubt the Court would uphold a plan where one
Representative represents fewer than 570,000 people in Wyoming but
nearly a million people next door in Montana.[4]

															Second, Reynolds v. Sims squarely
rejected the argument that the Constitution’s allocation of
congressional representation establishes the test for the
constitution-ality of a state legislative districting plan. Under
one Ala-bama districting plan before the Court in that case, seats
in the State Senate were allocated by county, much as seats in the
United States Senate are allocated by State. (At that time, the
upper houses in most state legislatures were similar in this
respect.) The Reynolds Court noted that “[t]he system
of representation in the two Houses of the Federal Congress”
was “conceived out of compromise and concession indispensable
to the establishment of our federal republic.” 377
U. S., at 574. Rejecting Alabama’s argument that this
system supported the constitutionality of the State’s
apportionment of senate seats, the Court concluded that “the
Founding Fathers clearly had no intention of establishing a pattern
or model for the apportionment of seats in state legislatures when
the system of representation in the Federal Congress was
adopted.” Id., at 573; see also Gray v.
Sanders, 372 U. S. 368, 378 (1963) .

															Third, as the Reynolds Court recognized,
reliance on the Constitution’s allocation of congressional
representation is profoundly ahistorical. When the formula for
allocating House seats was first devised in 1787 and reconsidered
at the time of the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment in 1868,
the overwhelming concern was far removed from any abstract theory
about the nature of representation. Instead, the dominant
consideration was the distribution of political power among the
States.

															The original Constitution’s allocation of
House seats involved what the Reynolds Court rather
delicately termed “compromise and concession.” 377
U. S., at 574. Seats were apportioned among the States
“according to their respective Numbers,” and these
“Numbers” were “determined by adding to the whole
Number of free Persons . . . three fifths of all other
Persons.” Art. I, §2, cl. 3. The phrase “all other
Persons” was a euphemism for slaves. Delegates to the
Constitutional Convention from the slave States insisted on this
infamous clause as a condition of their support for the
Constitution, and the clause gave the slave States more power in
the House and in the electoral college than they would have enjoyed
if only free persons had been counted.[5] These slave-state delegates did not demand slave
representation based on some philosophical notion that
“representatives serve all residents, not just those eligible
or registered to vote.” Ante, at 18.[6]

															B

															The Court’s account of the original
Constitution’s allocation also plucks out of context
Alexander Hamilton’s statement on apportionment. The Court
characterizes Hamilton’s words (more precisely, Robert
Yates’s summary of his fellow New Yorker’s words) as
endorsing apportionment by total population, and positions
those words as if Hamilton were talking about apportionment in the
House. Ante, at 9. Neither is entirely accurate. The
“quote” comes from the controversy over Senate
apportionment, where the debate turned on whether to apportion by
population at all. See generally 1 Records of the Federal
Convention of 1787, pp. 470–474 (M. Farrand ed. 1911).
Hamilton argued in favor of allocating Senate seats by
population:

															“The question, after all is, is it
our interest in modifying this general government to sacrifice
individual rights to the preservation of the rights of an
artificial being, called states? There can be no truer
principle than this—that every individual of the community at
large has an equal right to the protection of government. If
therefore three states contain a majority of the inhabitants of
America, ought they to be governed by a minority? Would the
inhabitants of the great states ever submit to this? If the smaller
states maintain this principle, through a love of power, will not
the larger, from the same motives, be equally tenacious to preserve
their power?” Id., at 473.

															As is clear from the passage just quoted,
Hamilton (according to Yates) thought the fight over apportionment
was about naked power, not some lofty ideal about the nature
of representation. That interpretation is confirmed by James
Madison’s summary of the same statement by Hamilton:
“The truth is it [meaning the debate over apportionment] is a
contest for power, not for liberty. . . . The State of
Delaware having 40,000 souls will lose power, if she has
1/10 only of the votes allowed to Pa. having 400,000.”
Id., at 466. Far from “[e]ndorsing apportionment based
on total population,” ante, at 9, Hamilton was merely
acknowledging the obvious: that apportionment in the new National
Government would be the outcome of a contest over raw political
power, not abstract political theory.

															C

															After the Civil War, when the Fourteenth
Amendment was being drafted, the question of the apportionment
formula arose again. Thaddeus Stevens, a leader of the so-called
radical Republicans, unsuccessfully proposed that apportionment be
based on eligible voters, rather than total population. The opinion
of the Court suggests that the rejection of Stevens’ proposal
signified the adoption of the theory that representatives are
properly understood to represent all of the residents of their
districts, whether or not they are eligible to vote. Ante,
at 10–12. As was the case in 1787, however, it was power
politics, not democratic theory, that carried the day.

															In making his proposal, Stevens candidly
explained that the proposal’s primary aim was to perpetuate
the dominance of the Republican Party and the Northern States.
Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 74 (1865); Van Alstyne, The
Fourteenth Amendment, The “Right” to Vote, and the
Understanding of the Thirty-Ninth Congress, 1965 S. Ct. Rev. 33,
45–47 (Van Alstyne). As Stevens spelled out, if House seats
were based on total population, the power of the former slave
States would be magnified. Prior to the Civil War, a slave had
counted for only three-fifths of a person for purposes of the
apportionment of House seats. As a result of the Emancipation
Proclamation and the Thirteenth Amendment, the former slaves would
now be fully counted even if they were not permitted to vote. By
Stevens’ calculation, this would give the South 13 additional
votes in both the House and the electoral college. Cong. Globe,
39th Cong., 1st Sess., 74 (1865); VanAlstyne 46.

															Stevens’ proposal met with opposition in
the Joint Committee on Reconstruction, including from, as the
majority notes, James Blaine. Ante, at 11. Yet, as it does
with Hamilton’s, the majority plucks Blaine’s words out
of context:

															“[W]e have had several propositions to
amend the Federal Constitution with respect to the basis of
representation in Congress. These propositions . . . give
to the States in future a representation proportioned to their
voters instead of their inhabitants.

															“The effect contemplated and intended by
this change is perfectly well understood, and on all hands frankly
avowed. It is to deprive the lately rebellious States of the unfair
advantage of a large representation in this House, based on their
colored population, so long as that population shall be denied
political rights by the legislation of those States.
. . .

															“The direct object thus aimed at, as it
respects the rebellious States, has been so generally approved that
little thought seems to have been given to the incidental evils
which the proposed constitutional amendment would inflict on a
large portion of theloyal States—evils, in my judgment, so
serious and alarming as to lead me to oppose the amendment in any
form in which it has yet been presented. As an abstract proposition
no one will deny that population is the true basis of
representation; for women, children, and other non-voting classes
may have as vital an interest in the legislation of the country as
those who actually deposit the ballot. . . .

															“If voters instead of population shall be
made the basis of representation certain results will follow, not
fully appreciated perhaps by some who are now urgent for the
change.” Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 141 (1865).

															The “not fully appreciated” and
“incidental evi[l]” was, in Blaine’s view, the
disruption to loyal States’ representation in
Congress. Blaine described how the varying suffrage requirements in
loyal States could lead to, for instance, California’s being
entitled to eight seats in the House and Vermont’s being
entitled only to three, despite their having similar populations.
Ibid.; see also 2 B. Ackerman, We the People:
Transformations 164, 455, n. 5 (1998); Van Alstyne 47, 70.
This mattered to Blaine because both States were loyal and
so neither deserved to suffer a loss of relative political power.
Blaine therefore proposed to apportion representatives by the
“whole number of persons except those to whom civil or
political rights or privileges are denied or abridged by the
constitution or laws of any State on account of race or
color.” Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 142.

															“This is a very simple and very
direct way, it seems to me, of reaching the result aimed at without
embarrassment to any other question or interest. It leaves
population as heretofore the basis of representation, does not
disturb in any manner the harmonious relations of the loyal States,
and it conclusively deprives the southern States of all
representation in Congress on account of the colored population so
long as those States may choose to abridge or deny to that
population the political rights and privileges accorded to
others.” Ibid.

															As should be obvious from these lengthy
passages, Blaine recognized that the “generally
approved” “result aimed at” was to deprive
southern States of political power; far from quibbling with that
aim, he sought to achieve it while limiting the collateral
damage to the loyal northern States. See Van Alstyne 47.

															Roscoe Conkling, whom the majority also quotes,
ante, at 11, seemed to be as concerned with voter-based
apportionment’s “narrow[ing] the basis of taxation, and
in some States seriously,” as he was with abstract notions of
representational equality. Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 358;
id., at 359 (“representation should go with
taxation”); ibid. (apportionment by citizenship
“would narrow the basis of taxation and cause considerable
inequalities in this respect, because the number of aliens in some
States is very large, and growing larger now, when emigrants reach
our shores at the rate of more than a State a year”). And
Hamilton Ward, also quoted by the majority, ante, at 11, was
primarily disturbed by “[t]he fact that one South Carolinian,
whose hands are red with the blood of fallen patriots, and whose
skirts are reeking with the odors of Columbia and Andersonville,
will have a voice as potential in these Halls as two and a half
Vermont soldiers who have come back from the grandest battle-fields
in history maimed and scarred in the contest with South Carolina
traitors in their efforts to destroy this
Government”—and only secondarily worried about the
prospect of “taxation without representation.” Cong.
Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 434.

															Even Jacob Howard, he of the “theory of
the Constitution” language, ante, at 12, bemoaned the
fact that basing representation on total population would allow
southern States “to obtain an advantage which they did not
possess before the rebellion and emancipation.” Cong. Globe,
39th Cong., 1st Sess., 2766. “I object to this. I think they
cannot very consistently call upon us to grant them an additional
number of Representatives simply because in consequence of their
own misconduct they have lost the property [meaning slaves, whom
slaveholders considered to be property] which they once possessed,
and which served as a basis in great part of their
representation.” Ibid. The list could go on. The
bottom line is that in the leadup to the Fourteenth Amendment,
claims about representational equality were invoked, if at all,
only in service of the real goal: preventing southern States
from acquiring too much power in the National Government.

															After much debate, Congress eventually settled
on the compromise that now appears in §2 of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Under that provision, House seats are apportioned based
on total population, but if a State wrongfully denies the right to
vote to a certain percentage of its population, its representation
is supposed to be reduced proportionally.[7] Enforcement of this remedy, however, is dependent on
action by Congress, and—regrettably—the remedy was
never used during the long period when voting rights were widely
abridged. Amar 399.

															In light of the history of Article I, §2,
of the original Constitution and §2 of the Fourteenth
Amendment, it is clear that the apportionment of seats in the House
of Representatives was based in substantial part on the
distribution of political power among the States and not merely on
some theory regarding the proper nature of representation. It is
impossible to draw any clear constitutional command from this
complex history.

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, I would hold only that
Texas permissibly used total population in drawing the challenged
legislative districts. I therefore concur in the judgment of the
Court.

Notes
1
 See, e.g., H.
Pitkin, The Concept of Representation 4 (1967)
(“[D]iscussions of representation are marked by
long-standing, persistent controversies which seem to defy
solution”); ibid. (“Another vexing and seemingly
endless controversy concerns the proper relation between
representative and constituents”); Political Representation i
(I. Shapiro, S. Stokes, E. Wood, & A. Kirshner eds. 2009)
(“[R]elations between the democratic ideal and the everyday
practice of political representation have never been well defined
and remain the subject of vigorous debate among historians,
political theorists, lawyers, and citizens”); id., at
12 (“[W]e need a better understanding of these complex
relations in their multifarious parts before aspiring to develop
any general theory of representation”); S. Dovi, Political
Representation, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (E. Zalta
ed. Spring 2014) (“[O]ur common understanding of political
representation is one that contains different, and conflicting,
conceptions of how political representatives should represent and
so holds representatives to standards that are mutually
incompatible”), online at
http://plato.stanford.edu/‌archives/‌spr2014/‌entries/‌political-representation
(all Internet materials as last visited Mar. 31, 2016);
ibid. (“[W]hat exactly representatives do has
been a hotly contested issue”).
2
 See, e.g.,
Andeweg, Roles in Legislatures, in The Oxford Handbook of
Legislative Studies 268 (S. Martin, T. Saalfeld, & K.
Strøm eds. 2014) (explaining that the social sciences have
not “succeeded in distilling [an] unambiguous
concept[ion]” of the “role” of a legislator);
Introduction, id., at 11 (“Like political science in
general, scholars of legislatures approach the topic from different
and, at least partially, competing theoretical
perspectives”); Diermeier, Formal Models of Legislatures,
id., at 50 (“While the formal study of legislative
politics has come a long way, much remains to be done”); Best
& Vogel, The Sociology of Legislators and Legislatures,
id., at 75–76 (“Stable representative
democracies are . . . institutional frameworks and informal
arrangements which achieve an equilibrium between the competing
demands [of constituents and political opponents]. How this
situation affects the daily interactions of legislators is largely
unknown”).
3
 As Justice Thomas notes,
ante, at 8–10 (opinion concurring in judgment), the
plan for the House of Representatives was based in large part on
the view that there should be “equality of
representation,” but that does not answer the question
whether it is eligible voters (as appellants urge), all citizens,
or all residents who should be equally represented. The
Constitution allocates House seats based on total inhabitants, but
as I explain, the dominant, if not exclusive, reason for that
choice was the allocation of political power among the
States.
4
 The Court brushes off the
original Constitution’s allocation of congressional
representation by narrowing in on the Fourteenth Amendment’s
ratification debates. Ante, at 13, n. 10. But those
debates were held in the shadow of that original allocation. And
what Congress decided to do after those debates was to retain the
original apportionment formula—minus the infamous
three-fifths clause—and attach a penalty to the
disenfranchisement of eligible voters. In short, the Fourteenth
Amendment made no structural changes to apportionment that bear on
the one-person, one-vote rule.
5
 See A. Amar,
America’s Constitution: A Biography 87–98 (2005)
(Amar); id., at 94 (“The best justification for the
three-fifths clause sounded in neither republican principle nor
Revolutionary ideology, but raw politics”); see also
id., at 88–89 (explaining that the “protective
coloring” camouflaging the slave States’ power grab
“would have been wasted had the Constitution pegged
apportionment to the number of voters, with a glaringly
inconsistent add-on for nonvoting slaves”); cf. G. Van Cleve,
A Slaveholders’ Union 126 (2010) (“[T]he slave states
saw slave representation as a direct political protection for
wealth consisting of slave property against possible Northern
attacks on slavery, and told the Convention unequivocally that they
needed such protection in order to obtain ratification of the
Constitution”); id., at 133–134 (“The
compromise on representation awarded disproportionate shares of
representative influence to certain vested political-economy
interests, one of which was the slave labor
economies”).
6
 See Amar 92 (“But
masters did not as a rule claim to virtually represent the best
interests of their slaves. Masters, after all, claimed the right to
maim and sell slaves at will, and to doom their yet unborn
posterity to perpetual bondage. If this could count as virtual
representation, anything could”).
7
 Section 2
provides:


