::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 142-orig
::decision_name::  Florida v. Georgia
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 142, Orig.

															_________________

															STATE OF FLORIDA, PLAINTIFF  v. STATE OF GEORGIA

															on exceptions to report of special master

															[June 27, 2018]

															

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito, Justice Kagan, and Justice Gorsuch join, dissenting.

															Florida asks this Court to cap Georgia’s use of water in the Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint River Basin (Basin).  Florida claims that such a cap would allow additional water to flow into the Apalachicola River and Bay, which would benefit Florida by alleviating certain ecological harms.  To prevail under our precedents, Florida must present clear and convincing evidence that its proposed cap will benefit Florida more than it harms Georgia.  See Colorado v. New Mexico,

459 U. S. 176, 187 (1982) (Colorado I).  The Special Master applied this balance-of-harms standard and, after presiding over a 1-month trial involving 40 witnesses and more than 2,000 exhibits, found that Florida had not met its burden.  Because that finding is well supported by the evidence, I would have over- ruled Florida’s objections to the Special Master’s Report (Report) and denied Florida’s request for relief.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															The Court’s recitation of the facts focuses on the geography of the relevant rivers and the failed compact negotiations between Florida and Georgia, but does not provide any details about the respective interests of Florida and Georgia or the extensive operations of the United States Army Corps of Engineers (Corps).  See ante, at 2–5.  Because these missing details are crucial to determining whether equitable relief is warranted, I will supply them.

															A

															This case concerns Georgia’s use of water in the Basin.  Spanning Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, the Basin consists of three rivers—the Chattahoochee, the Flint, and the Apalachicola.  The Chattahoochee River starts in northern Georgia, just north of Atlanta, and flows southwest along the Alabama-Georgia border until it reaches Florida.  The Flint River starts east of the Chattahoochee, just south of Atlanta, and flows south until it reaches Florida.  The Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers meet at the border of Florida, forming Lake Seminole.  From Lake Seminole, the Apalachicola River flows south through the Florida panhandle and into the Gulf of Mexico at Apalachicola Bay.

															Both Georgia and Florida depend on Basin water.  The Chattahoochee River supplies most of the water for metropolitan Atlanta.  And the Flint River supplies most of the water for southern Georgia’s large agricultural industry.  In Florida, the Apalachicola River sustains a unique ecosystem that is home to a number of species, including mussels, sturgeon, and tupelo trees.  Flows from the Apalachicola River (or River) also support the Apalachi- cola Bay (or Bay) ecosystem—one of the most productive estuaries in the Northern Hemisphere.  The Apalachicola Bay’s low-salinity and high-nutrient waters make it an extraordinarily productive habitat for oysters and other sea life.

															Although both Georgia and Florida depend on the Basin, the Florida portion of the Basin is significantly less populated and productive.  The Georgia portion has a population of more than 5 million and accounts for around $283 billion in gross regional product per year.  Direct Testimony of Robert Stavins 2, 16 (Stavins).  The Florida portion, by contrast, has a population of fewer than 100,000 people and generates around $2 billion in gross regional product per year.  Id., at 17.  In relative terms, Georgia accounts for 98% of the population and 99% of the economic production.  Ibid.

															B

															Florida and Georgia are not the only stakeholders in the Basin.  The United States, through the Corps, operates five dams and four reservoirs on the Chattahoochee River.  Only the three northernmost dams can store significant amounts of water.  The two dams that are farthest south on the Chattahoochee—the George W. Andrews Dam and the Jim Woodruff Dam—cannot store an appreciable amount of water.  The Corps does not operate any dams on the Flint River, which flows unimpeded until it reaches the Jim Woodruff Dam at Lake Seminole.

															The Corps operates its dams as a unit.  It must do so in a way that achieves its congressionally authorized purposes, such as facilitating navigation, generating hydroelectric power, protecting the national defense, promoting recreation, maintaining the commercial value of riparian lands, and protecting the water supply for the surrounding metropolitan Atlanta area.  See H. R. Doc. No. 342, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., 77 (1939); River and Harbor Act of 1945,

59Stat.
17; In re MDL-1824 Tri-State Water Rights Litigation, 644 F. 3d 1160, 1167 (CA11 2011).  The Corps also must ensure compliance with other federal laws, including laws governing the conservation of fish and wildlife, the quality of water, and the protection of threatened and endangered species.  See, e.g., Endangered Species Act of 1973,

16 U. S. C. §1531 et seq.; Flood Control Act of 1944,

33 U. S. C. §701 et seq.; Water Supply Act of 1958,

43 U. S. C. §390b.

															Given these numerous demands, the Corps has long relied on water-control manuals to guide its operations of the dams.  The current manual dictates the minimum amount of water that the Corps must provide to the Apalachicola River under various conditions.  Three vari- ables affect that minimum amount of water: the time of year, the amount of water in the Corps’ storage reservoirs, and the amount of additional water entering the Basin.

															The manual is very complex, spanning 1,190 pages, but only a few provisions are relevant here.  The manual provides that, as a general rule, most additional water that enters the Basin will pass through to Florida via the Apalachicola River.  But, in certain circumstances, the Corps will artificially increase or decrease the amount of water that passes through to ensure that 5,000 cubic feet per second flows into the Apalachicola River.  For example, if the natural streamflow entering the Basin (Basin inflow) is less than 5,000 cubic feet per second, then the Corps will artificially augment the flow by releasing additional water from its reservoirs.  Or, if the amount of water in the Corps’ reservoirs falls below a certain amount, the Corps will trigger what it calls “drought operations.”  During drought operations, no matter how much water is entering the Basin, the Corps will generally release only 5,000 cubic feet per second into the Apa- lachicola River until its reservoirs are completely replenished.[1]

															The Corps’ current manual reflects many lessons that it has learned over the past decade.  In March 2006, for example, the Corps created an interim operating plan, which set high flow requirements to protect endangered species in the Apalachicola River.  Direct Testimony of Wei Zeng 44–45 (Zeng).  But those high flow requirements prevented the Corps from saving enough water during droughts to refill its reservoirs, putting all its other projects at risk.  Id., at 45.  So the Corps switched to more storage-friendly rules.  Id., at 45–46.  In December 2006, the Corps modified its operating plan to require a portion of the water entering the Basin to be devoted to refilling the Corps’ reservoirs.  Id., at 46.  When this modification proved insufficient, the Corps created special rules for droughts, which saved even more water by decreasing the minimum flow into the Apalachicola River.  Id., at 46–47.  Later, the Corps altered its operations to save still more water, by increasing the amount it could dedicate to refilling its reservoirs during nondroughts and lowering the threshold for triggering the special drought rules.  Id., at 47; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 11 (Brief for United States).  The Corps’ current manual is a product of this decade of trial and error.

															The current manual also reflects decades of litigation.  The Corps’ first manual went into effect in 1958, and the Corps did not propose a new one until 1989.  As soon as it did, Alabama sued.  Florida, Georgia, and other stakeholders eventually sued as well.  For its part, Florida alleged that the Corps’ operations under the proposed manual and subsequent interim operating plans violated the Endangered Species Act by injuring mussels and sturgeon, as well as noncovered species like oysters and tupelo trees.[2]  The various lawsuits were eventually consolidated in the Middle District of Florida.  Twenty years after Alabama first sued, the District Court ruled for Alabama but against Florida.  The United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit reversed with respect to Alabama.  In re MDL-1824 Tri-State Water Rights Litigation, 644 F. 3d, at 1192, 1205.  And Florida’s case became moot in 2012, once the Corps issued the immediate predecessor to its current manual.

															II

															A

															Soon after the litigation against the Corps ended, Florida sought leave to file this lawsuit against Georgia, requesting an equitable apportionment of Basin water.  This Court granted Florida leave to file its complaint in 2014.  Florida’s complaint alleged that Georgia was consuming more than its fair share of water in the Basin, causing economic and ecological harms to Florida.  Florida sought relief only against Georgia and disclaimed seeking any “affirmative relief against the United States . . . with respect to the Corps’ operation of the federally authorized dam and reservoir system.”  Complaint ¶15.  The United States could not be joined as a party because it declined to waive its sovereign immunity.

															Georgia moved to dismiss Florida’s complaint for failure to join the United States as a necessary party.  Florida opposed the motion, arguing that the United States was not necessary because Florida “ ‘ha[d] no quarrel’ with the Corps’ operation of dams, and [its] lawsuit is not seeking to impose a ‘minimum flow’ regime on the Corps.”  Florida Brief in Opposition to Motion to Dismiss 26.  Florida reiterated that it “is not seeking any relief whatsoever with respect to the operations of the dams” and is “not seeking any relief asking the Corps to control the dams or pull the levers in any specific way.”  Tr. of Oral Arg. on Motion to Dismiss 27.  Florida conceded that “if [the Special Master] conclude[s] after a trial that caps on [Georgia’s] consumption will not redress Florida’s harm, then Florida will not have proved its case.”  Id., at 29.

															Based on Florida’s concessions, the Special Master denied Georgia’s motion to dismiss.  The Special Master recognized that Florida had “disclaimed any intention to seek a decree” binding the Corps in order to “sideste[p] the need to join the United States as a party.”  Order on Motion to Dismiss, p. 12.  The Special Master warned Florida that this strategy was a “ ‘two edged sword.’ ”  Id., at 13.  “Having voluntarily narrowed its requested relief and shouldered the burden of proving that the requested relief is appropriate,” the Special Master explained, “Florida’s claim will live or die based on whether Florida can show that a consumption cap [on Georgia alone] is justified and will afford adequate relief.”  Ibid.

															B

															The parties proceeded to trial.  Florida sought to cap Georgia’s use of Basin water at its current levels through at least 2050.  See Florida Pre-trial Brief 5; Updated Pre-Filed Direct Testimony (PFDT) of Dr. George M. Hornberger 58 (Hornberger).  And, during drought years, Florida sought to reduce Georgia’s use of Basin water by between 1,500 and 2,000 cubic feet per second.  See Florida Pre-trial Brief 5; Hornberger 58; Updated PFDT of David Sunding 42 (Sunding); Florida Post-Trial Brief 18.

															To support its proposed caps, Florida first presented testimony about how much additional water it would receive during droughts.  According to Florida’s evidence, Georgia is currently using enough water during droughts to decrease streamflow on the Apalachicola River by around 4,000 cubic feet per second.  See Hornberger 2.  Florida proposed cutting that amount by half.  One of its experts opined that, by implementing several conservation measures, Georgia could increase flows in the Apalachicola River during droughts by 1,500 to 2,000 cubic feet per second.  See Sunding 3; Hornberger 4. Florida estimated that these measures would cost Georgia an additional $35.2 million per year.  Sunding 44.

															Florida next presented evidence about how this additional water would benefit various species in the Apalachicola River.  It argued that additional flows could benefit mussels, which need consistent flows of at least 6,000 cubic feet per second in the summer; sturgeon, which need consistent flows of at least 7,000 cubic feet per second in the summer; and tupelo trees, which need consistent flows of at least 14,100 cubic feet per second in the summer.  See Updated PFDT of J. David Allan 23–24, 26, 32–33, 41, 44–45 (Allan).  Additional flows could also benefit the oysters in the Apalachicola Bay by lowering its salinity.  See Updated PFDT of J. Wilson White 48 (White); PFDT of Marcia Greenblatt 15.  All of Florida’s evidence about these species, however, addressed the benefits of additional water during droughts.  See Report 63.  Florida presented no evidence of any benefits during nondroughts.

															Finally, Florida attempted to prove that the additional water would actually reach Florida when it needs the water—i.e., during droughts.  To do this, Florida needed to show that the Corps would deviate from its normal operating protocols, which specify that the Corps will generally release only 5,000 cubic feet per second during droughts.  Florida relied on Dr. Peter Shanahan to make this showing.  Dr. Shanahan testified that “the Corps would not . . . hold back water and thwart the additional flow benefits [that] Florida would receive from Georgia[’s] conservation efforts.”  Updated PFDT of Dr. Peter Shanahan 1 (Nov. 15, 2016).  He reasoned that the Corps would either choose to release the additional water in its discretion or be compelled to release the additional water because its upstream dams have limited storage capacity and it does not operate any dams on the Flint River.  Id., at 17–27.

															In its defense, Georgia presented evidence that its current use has only a negligible impact on the amount of water that Florida receives through the Apalachicola River.  Georgia’s experts showed that the State’s water use amounted to just 4% of Basin flows in an average year and 8% of Basin flows in a dry year, leaving anywhere from 92% to 96% of Basin water for Florida.  See Stavins 16–18; Bedient 44–45.  According to Georgia’s experts, the primary factor that dictates flows in the Apalachicola River is precipitation, not consumption.  See Direct Testimony of Charles A. Menzie 15.

															Georgia’s experts also testified that Georgia’s water use was entirely reasonable.  Metropolitan Atlanta had taken substantial steps to conserve water, reducing its consumption to levels that even Florida’s expert admitted demonstrated effective water conservation.  Direct Testimony of Peter Mayer 2; see also, id., at 18 (showing that Florida’s Basin residents used more water per capita than residents in metropolitan Atlanta).  And, instead of Florida’s estimate of 4,000 cubic feet per second, Georgia estimated that its water use had never decreased streamflow by more than 2,000 cubic feet per second, and only rarely by more than 1,400 cubic feet per second.  See Zeng 2, 7.

															Georgia also presented evidence that Florida’s proposed caps would cost Georgia significantly more than they would benefit Florida.  Georgia’s economic expert estimated that Florida’s proposed caps would impose costs of more than “$2.1 billion for municipal and industrial water users and $335 million for Georgia farmers . . . every single year.”  Stavins 2.  Georgia’s expert also testified that Florida’s expert had dramatically lowered his initial evaluation of the costs to Georgia, which was initially $191 million.  Id., at 31; see also 11 Trial Tr. 2787.  That change apparently occurred because Florida’s expert narrowed his definition of “cost” to exclude anything but additional, direct governmental expenditures.  See id., at 2791.  But regardless of the precise cost, Georgia’s expert testified that it would be inequitable to impose it on Georgia.  “Georgia has 5 times the land area, 56 times the population, 80 times the number of employees, and 129 times the [gross regional product] of . . . Florida. [Yet it] consumes only 4 percent of the total waters available in the . . . Basin in an average year, and only 8 percent of the total waters available in the . . . Basin in a dry year, leaving the rest for Florida’s use.”  Stavins 2.  Further, Florida’s own expert estimated that a cap on Georgia would produce only minimal benefits for Florida: Cutting Georgia’s water use in half would increase the oyster biomass in Apalachicola Bay by less than 0.6% in most instances, and only 1.2% during the worst droughts.  White 50–51.  These additional oysters would be worth only a few hundred thousand dollars.  Stavins 51–52.

															Finally, Georgia rebutted Florida’s assertion that, despite the Corps’ operations, Florida would actually receive the additional water that a cap on Georgia would create during droughts.  Using models that accounted for the Corps’ prior operations, Georgia’s expert on the Corps, Dr. Philip Bedient, testified that Florida would receive only 5,000 cubic feet per second during droughts, no matter how much additional water was created by a cap on Georgia and regardless of whether that water flowed into the Flint or the Chattahoochee River.  See Bedient 23–26, 28–30.  The United States filed an amicus brief to the same effect.  It confirmed that, during droughts, “[t]he Corps expects . . . that Apalachicola River flows would be very similar with or without a consumption cap [on Georgia].”  Post-Trial Brief 17–18 (United States Post-Trial Brief).[3]

															C

															All told, the trial lasted one month.  After hearing the witnesses and reviewing the evidence, the Special Master recommended ruling against Florida.  Report 70.  The Special Master found that Florida likely had proved harm to its oysters,[4] and assumed that Georgia was using too much water for agricultural purposes.[5]  Id., at 31–34.  But the Special Master did not decide whether Georgia’s agricultural water use caused the harm to Florida’s oysters.  Id., at 34.  Instead, he concluded that Florida had failed to prove that a cap on Georgia would appreciably benefit it given the Corps’ operations in the Basin.  Id., at 3, 31–34.

															Citing this Court’s precedents requiring States to prove an appreciable benefit before they can obtain an equitable apportionment that interferes with established uses, the Special Master concluded that Florida could not prove that its injury was “redressable by the Court.”  See id., at 24 (citing, inter alia, Idaho ex rel. Evans v. Oregon,

444 U. S. 380, 392 (1980) (Idaho I); Washington v. Oregon,

297 U. S. 517, 523 (1936)); Report 30 (same); see also id., at 27 (citing New Jersey v. New York,

283 U. S. 336, 342–345 (1931); Colorado I, 459 U. S., at 187).  According to the Special Master, Florida “ha[d] not proven by clear and convincing evidence that any additional streamflow in the Flint River or Chattahoochee River would be released from Jim Woodruff Dam into the Apalachicola River at a time that would provide a material benefit to Florida (i.e., during dry periods).”  Report 47.  The Special Master also found that “Florida ha[d] not met its requirement to show by clear and convincing evidence that its injury can be redressed by increased flows during nondrought conditions” because its “trial presentation did not address the benefits of increased flows during ‘normal’ periods” and Georgia’s evidence showed “an absence of any significant benefit to Florida.”  Id., at 63–65.

															III

															Before delving into the parties’ arguments, it is helpful to have a basic understanding of the rules that govern this Court’s equitable-apportionment jurisprudence—or at least what used to be the rules before the Court’s opinion muddled them beyond recognition.  

															First, in equitable-apportionment cases, as in all cases, this Court requires the complaining party to prove standing.  Maryland v. Louisiana,

451 U. S. 725, 735–736 (1981); Wyoming v. Oklahoma,

502 U. S. 437, 447, 452 (1992); see also 3 A. Kelley, Water and Water Rights §45.02(b), p. 45–12 (3d ed. 2018) (noting that standing is a justiciability requirement for equitable-apportionment cases) (Kelley).  To prove standing, a complaining State must demonstrate that it has “ ‘suffered a wrong through the action of the other State . . . which is susceptible of judicial enforcement according to the acceptable principles of the common law or equity systems of jurisprudence.’ ”  Maryland, supra, at 735–736; Wyoming, supra, at 452.

															Second, this Court requires the State seeking an apportionment to show by clear and convincing evidence a “threatened invasion of rights . . . of serious magnitude.”  New York v. New Jersey,

256 U. S. 296, 309 (1921); accord, Colorado I, supra, at 187, n. 13; Kelley §45.04.  Our precedents do not clarify whether this requirement goes to the case’s justiciability, the merits of the complaining State’s claim, or the propriety of affording injunctive relief.  See ibid.  But they are clear that such a showing must be made to obtain relief.  See Connecticut v. Massachusetts,

282 U. S. 660, 669 (1931).

															Third, the State seeking an apportionment must “demonstrat[e] by clear and convincing evidence that the benefits of the [apportionment] substantially outweigh the harm that might result.”  Colorado I, supra, at 187; accord, Colorado v. New Mexico,

467 U. S. 310, 316–317 (1984) (Colorado II); Kelley §45.06, at 45–34 to 45–35.  Since this Court’s first equitable-apportionment case, this balance-of-harms test has been the basic merits inquiry that decides whether a State is entitled to an apportionment.  See id., §45.06(c)(1), at 45–39 to 45–40 (“Harm-benefit comparison goes back to the Court’s first equitable apportionment case, Kansas v. Colorado[,

206 U. S. 46, 113–114 (1907) (Kansas I)]”).  As part of the balance-of-harms test, this Court has required the State seeking an apportionment to prove that it would appreciably benefit from the apportionment—otherwise, the State could not possibly prevail in the balance-of-harms analysis.  Idaho I, supra, at 392; Washington, supra, at 523; see also Kelley §45.06(c)(1), at 45–39 (explaining that this appreciable-benefit requirement is part of the “harm-benefit” balance).

															Fourth, if the State seeking an apportionment makes all these showings, this Court must craft an equitable-apportionment decree.  Our precedents hold that a State should not be denied a remedy merely because calculating the appropriate apportionment is difficult.  See Idaho ex rel. Evans v. Oregon,

462 U. S. 1017, 1026 (1983) (Idaho II).  Reasonable predictions about future conditions are sufficient.  Ibid.

															This case is about the third rule: the balance-of-harms analysis and, specifically, its appreciable-benefit requirement.  The Special Master found that Florida had not proved that its requested cap on Georgia’s water use would appreciably benefit it, since Florida could not prove that it would receive more water when it needed it.  That this case is about the third rule is important.  Throughout its opinion, the Court mushes the requirements from our precedents together, merging cases and principles from one area with cases and principles from another—sometimes in the same sentence.  But our precedents are not so convoluted.  They articulate clear rules, and the Special Master correctly applied one of them when making his recommendation in this case.  He did not err by failing to apply the unrecognizable mishmash of principles set out in the Court’s opinion.

															IV

															Florida raises three objections to the Special Master’s Report.  First, it argues that the Special Master required it to satisfy a legal standard that was too demanding.  Second, Florida argues that it should prevail under the correct standard because, if this Court enters an equitable-apportionment decree, the Corps will likely allow more water to flow into Florida during droughts.  And third, even if the Corps does not release more water into Florida during droughts, Florida argues that a cap on Georgia would still benefit it during nondroughts.  None of these arguments has merit.

															A

															Florida’s first objection fails because the Special Master applied the correct legal standard.  A careful reading of his Report demonstrates that he applied the ordinary balance-of-harms test dictated by this Court’s precedents.  He did not, as the Court implies, deny Florida relief because calculating an appropriate apportionment was too difficult or because Florida failed to satisfy the “threshold” redressability requirement for Article III standing.  And even if the Special Master did apply the wrong standard, his misstep would not justify a remand because his findings are plainly correct and establish that Georgia should prevail under the balance-of-harms test.

															1

															The Special Master applied the balance-of-harms test from this Court’s precedents.  A State seeking an equitable apportionment that interferes with established uses must “demonstrat[e] by clear and convincing evidence that the benefits of the [apportionment] substantially outweigh the harm that might result.”  Colorado I, 459 U. S., at 187; accord, Colorado II, supra, at 316–317.  This heavy burden reflects the need for “judicial caution” before granting equitable apportionments, which “involve the interests of quasi-sovereigns, present complicated and delicate questions, and . . . necessitate expert administration.”  Colo- rado v. Kansas,

320 U. S. 383, 392 (1943) (Kansas II); accord, Colorado II, 467 U. S., at 316 (explaining that the clear-and-convincing-evidence burden “appropriately balance[s] the unique interests involved in water rights disputes between sovereigns”).  It also reflects “this Court’s long-held view that the proposed diverter should bear most, if not all, of the risks of erroneous decision” because the benefits he claims for proposed future uses are usually “ ‘speculative and remote’ ” while the costs of disrupting established uses are “ ‘typically certain and immediate.’ ”  Ibid. (quoting Colorado I, supra, at 187).

															As part of the balance-of-harms analysis, this Court has repeatedly held that the State seeking to divert water from existing uses must show that it will obtain some appreciable benefit from an equitable apportionment.  See, e.g., Idaho I, 444 U. S., at 392; New Jersey, 283 U. S., at 345.  This appreciable-benefit requirement reflects the fact that a minimal benefit cannot outweigh the heavy costs that inevitably accompany equitable-apportionment decrees.  See Colorado I, supra, at 187 (“[T]he equities supporting the [status quo] will usually be compelling”); Kansas II, supra, at 393 (expressing “great and serious caution” over granting equitable apportionments because they “interfer[e] with the action of a State”).  Put another way, the Court will not “bring distress and even ruin to a long-established [water use] for no other or better purpose than to vindicate a barren right.”  Washington, 297 U. S., at 523; see also Kansas I, 206 U. S., at 109. (“[B]efore, at the instance of a sister state, [a State’s water use] is destroyed or materially interfered with, it should be clear that such sister state has not merely some technical right, but also a right with a corresponding benefit”).  Such an action would run contrary to “the high equity that moves the conscience of the court in giving judgment between states.”  Washington, 297 U. S., at 523.

															For example, in Washington v. Oregon—a case with facts strikingly similar to this one—the Court refused to cap Oregon’s water use because it “ ‘would materially injure Oregon users without a compensating benefit to Washington users.’ ”  Ibid.  In that case, Washington complained about “temporary dams” that Oregon residents had erected to irrigate their crops during “seasons of [water] shortage.”  Id., at 522.  Removing the dams, however, would mean that, “[d]uring the period of water shortage, only a small quantity of water would go by” and “would be quickly absorbed and lost in the deep gravel beneath the channel.”  Id., at 522–523.  Because a cap on Oregon would not benefit Washington by supplying water when it most needed it, the Court declined to grant Washington’s requested relief.  Id., at 520–523.

															The Special Master applied this appreciable-benefit requirement.  As he explained, Florida “ha[d] not proven by clear and convincing evidence” that the Corps would release any additional water “at a time that would provide a material benefit to Florida (i.e., during dry periods).”  Report 47; see also id., at 47–48 (“[T]he Corps’ operation[s] . . . rende[r] any potential benefit to Florida from increased streamflow in the Flint River uncertain and speculative”).  The Special Master likewise found “an absence of any significant benefit to Florida” during nondrought conditions.  Id., at 65; see also id., at 69 (“Florida has not shown that it would benefit from increased pass-through operations under normal conditions”); id., at 62–63 (“[T]he potential benefits to Florida of increased flows . . . when the Corps is not in drought operations are uncertain, rendering the efficacy of any relief speculative”).  Tellingly, the Special Master relied exclusively on this Court’s precedents applying the appreciable-benefit requirement.  See id., at 24 (citing, inter alia, Idaho I, supra, at 392; Washington, supra, at 523); Report 30 (same); id., at 27 (citing New Jersey, supra, at 345; Colorado I, supra, at 187).  And Florida agreed that it had to present proof of some benefit.  See, e.g., Florida’s Post-Trial Response Brief 63 (conceding that it had to “prove that additional flows from a . . . reduction in Georgia’s consumption will result in meaningful benefits to the Bay and River”).  In short, the Special Master correctly applied our precedents and required Florida to show that it would obtain some appreciable benefit from an equitable-apportionment decree.

															2

															The Court does not disagree that Florida failed to prove an appreciable benefit.  Instead, it simply asserts that a decision on that question is “premature.”  Ante, at 8.  It is incredibly odd to conclude that a Special Master’s merits determination is “premature” after a full trial.  The Court can draw that strange conclusion only by conflating the rules that govern our equitable-apportionment jurisprudence and then faulting the Special Master for misapplying two rules that he never applied.

															The Court criticizes the Special Master for applying “too strict a standard” when deciding the “ ‘threshold’ ” question whether the Court would be “able to fashion an appropriate equitable decree.”  Ante, at 15.  Although the Court’s reasoning is far from clear, it appears to mean one of two things.  The Court either means that the Special Master erred by denying relief on the ground that it was too difficult to calculate the appropriate apportionment—the fourth rule mentioned above.  Or, the Court means that the Special Master erred by denying relief on the ground that Florida could not prove Article III standing—the first rule mentioned above.  But the Special Master did not deny relief for either of these two reasons.

															a

															Both the Court and Florida suggest that the Special Master contravened this Court’s statement in Idaho II that “ ‘[u]ncertainties about the future . . . do not provide a basis for declining to fashion a decree.’ ”  Ante, at 11–12, 35 (quoting Idaho II, 462 U. S., at 1026); see also ante, at 13, 18 (suggesting that the Special Master violated Idaho II by concluding that “ ‘the formulation of a workable decree is impossible’ ”); Brief for Plaintiff 30–31.  But the Special Master nowhere contradicted this rule.

															The rule from Idaho II is a rule about fashioning an appropriate remedy when the complaining State has prevailed on the merits.  In Idaho II, the Special Master concluded that he could not determine Idaho’s entitlement to fish “for any past or future year” because “several unknown variables” made it too difficult to decide how many fish would be available to harvest at any given time.  Special Master’s Report, O. T. 1982, No. 67, Orig., p. 30.  The Special Master rejected Idaho’s proposed formula for calculating its entitlement because he could not understand the predictive models or mathematics involved in applying it.  Id., at 40–42.  Before this Court, Idaho objected to the Special Master’s conclusion, arguing that its proposed formula relied on procedures “that are either being currently employed by defendants or which involve simple mathematical computations.”  Brief for Plaintiffs in O. T. 1982, No. 67, Orig., p. 82.  The Court accepted Idaho’s argument, noting that a decree need not “always be mathematically precise or based on definite present and future conditions” and that “Idaho’s proposed formula for apportioning the fish is one possible basis for a decree.”  Idaho II, 462 U. S., at 1026.  “Uncertainties about the future,” the Court explained, “do not provide a basis for declining to fashion a decree.”  Ibid.

															Unlike the Special Master in Idaho II, the Special Master in this case did not conclude that it was too difficult to calculate the amount of water that Florida should receive.  As the Court acknowledges, ante, at 23, the Special Master assumed it was feasible to impose Florida’s requested cap on Georgia’s water use and “accept[ed] Florida’s estimates of the increased streamflow that would result from a consumption cap.”  Report 67, n. 43; see id., at 34–35.  But even if a cap on Georgia generated the additional water that Florida claimed it would (1,500 to 2,000 cubic feet per second), the Special Master concluded that it would not appreciably benefit Florida because it would not be passed through when Florida needed it.  See id., at 47–48, 62–65, 69.  That is why the Special Master cited the appreciable-benefit rule from Idaho I, 444 U. S., at 392, and Washington, 297 U. S., at 523.  He did not fail to make reasonable predictions in shaping a remedy or otherwise contravene the rule from Idaho II.

															b

															Florida alternatively contends that the Special Master applied the “redressability” requirement of Article III standing.  See Brief for Plaintiff 29–32.  At some points, the Court appears to agree with this characterization, as it describes the appreciable-benefit rule as an Article III standing requirement.  See ante, at 13 (quoting the Article III standing rule from Wyoming v. Oklahoma, 502 U. S., at 447, 452, Maryland v. Louisiana, 451 U. S., at 735–736, and Massachusetts v. Missouri,

308 U. S. 1, 15 (1939), and describing the appreciable-benefit rule from Kansas I and Washington as a “[m]ore specifi[c]” articulation of that rule).  This argument is incorrect.

															As explained, the Special Master applied the ordinary balance-of-harms analysis and found that Florida had not demonstrated an appreciable benefit from a cap on Georgia’s use.  Tellingly, the Special Master relied exclusively on cases conducting the balance-of-harms analysis.  His Report does not cite any standing cases, or even mention “standing” or “Article III.”  Neither do any of the pre-trial or post-trial briefs that the parties filed.  True, the Special Master’s Report sometimes describes the appreciable-benefit requirement as a question of “redressability”—a word that is also associated with Article III standing.  But the Special Master was merely following the parties’ lead, as they phrased the appreciable-benefit requirement in terms of “redress” throughout the litigation.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. on Motion to Dismiss 29 (Florida admitting that it must show “that caps on consumption will . . . redress [its] harms” to “prov[e] its case”); Florida Pre-Trial Brief 37–39 (describing how a consumption cap “can redress Florida’s worsening injuries” and “significantly benefit Florida’s ecology”); Georgia Post-Trial Brief 80–88 (describing the appreciable-benefit aspect of the balance-of-harms test as a “redress” requirement); Georgia’s Post-Trial Response Brief 3, 7 (same); see also United States Post-Trial Brief 19 (taking no position “on whether Florida has proved that a consumption cap would produce enough additional [B]asin inflow at the right times to redress Florida’s alleged harm and justify the cost of imposing a consumption cap” (emphasis added)).  That the parties and the Special Master adopted this shorthand does not change the Special Master’s analysis, which focused squarely on the appreciable-benefit requirement.[6]

															c

															Because the Court wrongly assumes that the Special Master denied relief on the basis rejected in Idaho II or for lack of Article III standing, it faults the Special Master for imposing the higher burden of proof that governs the merits—i.e., “clear and convincing evidence.”  See ante, at 15–18.[7]  Of course, the far simpler explanation for why the Special Master applied the merits standard is that he was, in fact, making a decision about the merits, not about remedies or standing.

															The Court also appears to fault the Special Master for addressing the appreciable-benefit requirement without first making several preliminary findings.  The Court asserts that Special Masters must make specific factual determinations in every case about the harm that the complaining State suffered, the exact amount of water needed to remedy that harm, and a host of other factors.  See ante, at 13–17.

															The Court’s suggested order of operations, which it appears to invent out of thin air, would fundamentally transform our equitable-apportionment jurisprudence.  It will require States to litigate (and this Court to resolve) a host of complex factual questions, even where the State seeking the apportionment is obviously not entitled to relief because it cannot show an appreciable benefit—a requirement that Florida agrees is necessary for it to prevail, see Florida Post-Trial Response Brief 63 (agreeing it must “prove that additional flows from a . . . reduction in Georgia’s consumption will result in meaningful benefits to the Bay and River”); Tr. of Oral Arg. on Motion to Dismiss 29 (admitting it must show “that caps on consumption will . . . redress [its] harms” to “prov[e] its case”).  In no other area of the law do we require unnecessary findings and conclusions when a key element of the plaintiff’s case is missing.  And we have not applied this rule in equitable apportionment cases either.  See, e.g., Idaho II, 462 U. S., at 1027–1029 (denying relief, despite the Special Master’s erroneous ruling on the requested remedy, because his findings also supported the conclusion that Idaho could not show injury and thus was not entitled to relief on the merits).  The inefficiencies that this would create, and the costs it would impose on States, are obvious.  Yet the Court faults the Special Master for resolving the dispositive question in this case first, without jumping through a series of unnecessary hoops.  This is precisely the opposite of what Special Masters should be doing and what this Court should be encouraging.

															3

															Even if the Court is correct that the Special Master denied Florida relief for some reason other than the merits, there is no reason to send this case back for a do-over.  As the Court acknowledges, “ ‘the ultimate responsibility for deciding what are correct findings of fact remains with us.’ ”  Ante, at 18–19 (Colorado II, supra, at 317).  We “must bring our independent judgment to bear based upon ‘our own independent examination of the record.’ ”  Kansas v. Missouri,

322 U. S. 213, 232 (1944).  An independent examination of the record confirms that the Special Master was correct to find that the Corps would not change its operations during droughts if this Court capped Georgia’s water use and thus Florida would not benefit from a cap during droughts.  See Part IV–B–1, infra.  The Special Master also was correct to find that Florida presented no evidence of a benefit during nondroughts.  See Part IV–B–2, infra.  Those findings support a judgment in Georgia’s favor under the traditional balance-of-harms analysis.

															It makes little sense to send this case back to the Special Master so that he can amend his Report to say “appreciable benefit” instead of “redress” and then send this case right back to this Court.[8]  That pointless exercise will only needlessly prolong this litigation.  The Court’s subtle suggestion that Florida could present “additional evidence” on remand, ante, at 36, is not a satisfactory response.  During their 18 months of discovery, the parties produced 7.2 million pages of documents, served 130 third-party subpoenas, issued more than 30 expert reports, and conducted nearly 100 depositions, including 29 expert depositions.  Florida thus had a more-than-ample opportunity to gather its evidence and then present it at a 1-month trial.  Giving Florida another bite at the apple will likely yield no additional evidence, but it will be unfair to Georgia, which has already spent the time and resources to defeat the case that Florida chose to present.  In short, we have all the evidence we need to decide this case now.  We should have done so. 

															B

															Florida’s second and third objections—which challenge the Special Master’s finding that Florida had not met its burden under the balance-of-harms test—also fail.  As explained, a State seeking to interfere with established uses must prove its case by clear and convincing evidence—a “much greater” burden than the one normally imposed in civil cases.  Connecticut, 282 U. S., at 669.  To meet this burden, Florida must present enough evidence to leave this Court with an “abiding conviction that the truth of its factual contentions are ‘highly probable’ ” and to “instantly til[t] the evidentiary scales in the affirmative when weighed against the evidence . . . offered in opposition.”  Colorado II, supra, at 316.  As the Special Master found, Florida has not met this burden.  The evidence demonstrates that, if this Court imposed Florida’s proposed cap on Georgia, Florida would not receive an appreciable amount of additional water during droughts.  And Florida would not benefit from the additional water that it received during nondroughts.

															1

															Florida did not demonstrate that, if this Court caps Georgia’s water use, Florida would receive a meaningful amount of additional water during droughts.  For Florida to receive more water, the Corps must change its current operating procedures.  But the Corps is not a party, and it would not be bound by any decree issued by this Court.  Because Florida cannot ask this Court to require the Corps to change its existing operations, it must prove by clear and convincing evidence that the Corps will voluntarily make the necessary changes.  Florida cannot do so.  The United States’ representations in this litigation and the Corps’ history and practice in the Basin all reveal that the Corps will not change its existing practices, even if this Court caps Georgia’s water use.

															Throughout this litigation, the United States has consistently maintained that the Corps “would not generally expect” to release more water into Florida during droughts, even if Florida convinced this Court to cap Georgia’s use.  Brief for United States 28; see also United States Post-Trial Brief 17–18 (“The Corps expects [during drought operations] that Apalachicola River flows would be very similar with or without a consumption cap until enough water is stored to return the system to normal operations”).  This is because “[B]asin inflow . . . has historically not been the primary factor in the Corps’ decisionmaking process for making additional releases above 5[,]000 [cubic feet per second] during drought operations.”  Brief for United States 28.  The Corps’ “overriding” priorities during droughts are preserving enough water “to comply with the [Endangered Species Act] while avoiding catastrophic depletion of storage and refilling [its] reservoirs as rapidly as possible.”  Id., at 27.  Deviations are made only “as needed to serve congressionally authorized project purposes” or “in emergency circumstances.”  Ibid.  Since a general need to provide more water to Florida does not fall within either exception, the additional water that would flow into the Basin would not translate into additional flows for Florida.  See id., at 29.

															The United States’ representations are consistent with the Corps’ historical practice.  During droughts, the amount of water entering the Basin is almost always insufficient to meet the Corps’ minimum-flow requirement of 5,000 cubic feet per second.  See Bedient 24–27.  Thus, a cap on Georgia would simply decrease the amount of water that the Corps must release from storage; it would not increase the amount of water flowing into the Apalachicola River.  Id., at 21, 25–26.  And once drought operations are triggered, the Corps limits its releases to around 5,000 cubic feet per second regardless of the amount of water entering the Basin.  See United States Post-Trial Brief 9; Brief for United States 24–28.  Indeed, during past drought operations, even when Basin inflow varied by tens of thousands of cubic feet per second, the measured flow from Jim Woodruff Dam into the Apalachicola River has consistently remained around 5,000 cubic feet per second.  See Bedient 23, 62–63.[9]  Further, the models presented by Georgia’s expert showed that, if Florida’s proposed caps had been in place during the drought years of 2007 and 2012, Florida would not have received appreciable additional flows when the water was most needed.  Cutting Georgia’s use in half would have produced additional flows for only 14 to 19 days in the summer and fall of 2007, and would not have produced any additional flows during the summer or fall of 2012.  Id., at 27–30; see also id., at 38 (showing the same for 2011).

															Florida argues that the Corps might exercise its discretion to ensure that additional water reaches Florida during droughts.  Brief for Plaintiff 40–44.  But Florida supports this claim with nothing more than speculation.  See Colorado II, 467 U. S., at 320 (explaining that a State cannot carry its burden in an equitable-apportionment action except “with specific evidence” and that “[m]ere assertions . . . will not do”).  All available evidence suggests that the Corps would not exercise its discretion to release more water into the Apalachicola River during droughts.

															Before this Court, the United States expressly rejected Florida’s contention that “the Corps is likely to exercise its authority within existing operational protocols to provide Florida with additional flows produced by a cap on Georgia’s consumption.”  Brief for United States 23.  Basin inflows, it explained, simply do not dictate how much water the Corps releases into the Apalachicola River.  Ibid.  And the Corps could not make discretionary releases “that [are] not specifically provided for in the [water-control manual], not specifically authorized by Congress or mandated by general statute, [and not] required by a court order directed to the Corps,” without raising “significant and difficult question[s]” about whether it had exceeded its authority.  Id., at 29.

															Florida also suggests that the Corps might amend its water-control manual in response to an equitable decree from this Court.  Florida’s only support for this argument is a statement from the Corps that it will “ ‘take . . . into account’ ” this Court’s decision.  Brief for Plaintiff 44 (quoting Record of Decision Adopting Proposed Action Alternative for Implementation of Updated Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint River Basin Master Manual 18 (Mar. 30, 2017)).  But this vague statement was not a promise that the Corps will change its procedures, and there are a host of reasons to doubt that the Corps would voluntarily change its procedures just because this Court capped Georgia’s use.

															For one, the Corps has already tried procedures that passed more water to Florida during droughts.  The results were dreadful: Reservoir storage plummeted to dangerously low levels, putting all of the Corps’ authorized project purposes at risk.  Zeng 45–46.  Since that time, the Corps’ operating protocols have become increasingly protective of reservoir storage, particularly during droughts.  As the Corps explained, it intends to pursue “ ‘a more proactive approach to conserve reservoir storage as drier conditions develop in the [B]asin’ ” because the “[s]torage of water during drought operations is critically important to retain sufficient water in the system.”  Brief for United States 11.

															For another, the last time the Corps attempted to change its water-control manual, it required more than two decades of litigation and administrative review to finalize those changes.  Indeed, the main reason that the United States chose not to participate in this case is because it wanted “to avoid being bound by a decree that could directly affect the Corps operations before the Corps had a chance to finally complete its process of updating the [water-control manual].”  Id., at 32.  Given this, there is no reason to think that the Corps will volunteer to undertake the process of updating its manual again—especially so soon after it completed this arduous task.

															Florida’s speculation is even more suspect in view of the changes that the Corps would have to make to benefit Florida during droughts.  To even propose a new water-control manual, the Corps must “examin[e] . . . the congressionally authorized purposes,” “determin[e] . . . how providing additional flows will impact those purposes [and] other laws,” and “supplemen[t] documentation of environmental impacts as required by [the National Environmental Policy Act].”  Id., at 31.  Providing more water to Florida does not help the Corps satisfy any of these legal requirements.  It is not one of the congressionally authorized purposes, see id., at 29, 31–32, and, by dropping its lawsuit against the Corps, Florida now accepts that a minimum flow of 5,000 cubic feet per second is sufficient to comply with the Endangered Species Act.  Florida cannot claim that the law requires the Corps to provide it with more water.  And the idea that the Corps will change its operating protocols to serve an unauthorized purpose when doing so could jeopardize its authorized purposes is simply not plausible.

															Taking a different tack, the Court suggests that additional water will pass through to Florida even if the Corps does not change its manual.  Specifically, the Court concludes that the additional water will pass through to Florida during droughts so long as the Corps does not enter drought operations.  See ante, at 25–27.  According to the Court, the Corps will allow additional water to pass through to Florida whenever the natural flow of the Apalachicola River is between 5,000 and 10,000 cubic feet per second during normal or “nondrought” operations.  See ante, at 25–26.

															The Court’s conclusion depends on the premise that, during droughts, the natural streamflow into Florida is “between 5,000 and 10,000” cubic feet per second.  Ibid.  That premise is false.[10]  During droughts, the natural streamflow in the Apalachicola River is usually less than 5,000 cubic feet per second.  Supra, at 25; see also Bedient 23 (showing that Basin inflow in 2012 was generally below 5,000 cubic feet per second between June and December); id., at 27 (same for 2007).  To maintain a minimum flow of 5,000 cubic feet per second during droughts, the Corps must artificially augment the River’s natural flow—even when the Corps is in nondrought operations.  Id., at 21.[11]  For instance, during the 2011 drought (when the Corps was in nondrought operations), “Basin Inflow was below 5,000 [cubic feet per second] for most of th[e] period [between June and December], and the Corps was ‘augmenting’ streamflow by releasing water from the reservoirs to satisfy the 5,000 [cubic feet per second] minimum.”  Id., at 15; see also id., at 27 (same for 2007).  Once the Corps adds enough water to reach 5,000 cubic feet per second, however, it generally adds no more than that.  Id., at 21.  To give a concrete example, if the natural flows in the Apalachicola River were 2,600 cubic feet per second, then the Corps would release 2,400 cubic feet per second from its reservoirs.  See id., at 25–26.  And if a cap on Georgia increased the River’s natural flow to 4,100 cubic feet per second, the Corps would release 900 cubic feet per second.  See ibid.  In either case, the total flow on the Apalachicola River would remain the same: 5,000 cubic feet per second.  Thus, so long as the natural flows remain significantly less than 5,000 cubic feet per second, a cap on Georgia would only decrease the amount of water that the Corps releases from storage; it would not increase the overall amount of water flowing into the Apalachicola River.

															For this reason, even when the Corps is in nondrought operations, a cap on Georgia would generally not increase flows to Florida.  Georgia’s expert proved that fact with evidence about past droughts where drought operations were not in effect.  Using data from the 2007 drought, Georgia’s expert concluded that the additional water from a cap on Georgia would be passed through to Florida almost entirely during the winter and spring months “when water in the [Basin] would be relatively plentiful.”  Id., at 28.  Florida would receive the additional water from a cap on Georgia only 19 days “during the summer and fall months, when streamflow was at its lowest.”  Ibid.; accord, id., at 40.  Data from the 2011 drought showed similar results.  See id., at 37 (“[During] dry years (e.g., 2007 and 2011), . . . even significant changes in Georgia’s consumptive use would lead to virtually no change in state-line flows during the low-flow months (e.g., June, July, August, September)”).[12]  Florida has not shown that these infrequent and sporadic additional flows during droughts would appreciably benefit it.[13]

															The Court hypothesizes that a cap on Georgia could benefit Florida by decreasing the length of drought operations and by increasing the number of days that the Corps can meet its minimum-flow requirements of 5,000 cubic feet per second (during normal drought operations) and 4,500 cubic feet per second (during extreme drought operations).  Ante, at 24, 27–29.  The Court cites the United States’ assertion in its brief that increased Basin inflows “ ‘would generally benefit the [Basin] system by delaying the onset of drought operations, by allowing the Corps to meet the 5000 [cubic feet per second] minimum flow longer during extended drought, and by quickening the resumption of normal operations.’ ”  Ante, at 24 (quoting Brief for United States 28); see also ante, at 28 (quoting a similar statement in the United States Post-Trial Brief 18–19).  Of course, statements in briefs are not evidence.  And, as the United States recognizes in the very next sentence, Flor- ida would have to show that these “benefits are of sufficient quantity to justify relief in this case.”  Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 28 (Aug. 7, 2017); see also United States Post-Trial Brief 19 (Dec. 15, 2016) (taking “no position on whether Florida has proven that a consumption cap would produce enough additional [B]asin inflow at the right times to redress Florida’s alleged harm and justify the cost of imposing a consumption cap”).

															Florida offered no proof that a cap on Georgia would produce any appreciable benefit of this kind.  And the evidence presented at trial suggests that these proposed benefits are wholly speculative.  As explained above, the benefits to Florida from a cap on Georgia do not meaningfully change, regardless of whether the Corps enters drought operations.  And there is no evidence that the Corps has had trouble meeting its minimum flow requirements during recent droughts, when Georgia’s use remained uncapped.  Even during the severe droughts of 2011 and 2012, the Corps consistently maintained flows of 5,000 cubic feet per second, never entered extreme drought operations, and never reduced flows on the Apa- lachicola River to 4,500 cubic feet per second.  See Bedient 14.  And the Corps is even more unlikely to run out of water during future droughts, given that its current manual is more proactive in conserving water during droughts.  See Brief for United States 11–12.

															In sum, Florida has not shown that it is “ ‘highly probable’ ” that a cap on Georgia will result in meaningful additional flows in the Apalachicola River during droughts.  Colorado II, 467 U. S., at 316.  It is thus not entitled to an equitable apportionment on this basis.

															2

															Because Florida will not receive additional water during droughts, it argues that it will benefit from additional water during nondroughts.  As the Special Master correctly found, however, Florida presented no evidence to support such an assertion.  That is because no such evidence exists.  Florida would not benefit from additional water during nondroughts, because flows on the Apalachicola River during nondroughts are already plentiful.

															The Court does not contend that Florida would benefit from additional water during nondroughts, and Florida all but conceded the point below.  When framing its case before the Special Master, Florida requested only that the Court order Georgia to reduce its water use during droughts; Florida did not ask the Court to reduce Georgia’s current water use during nondroughts.  See Florida Pre-trial Brief 5; Hornberger 58.  Consistent with this request, Florida’s evidence focused exclusively on the harms that it suffered during droughts.  Florida’s hydrol- ogy expert testified extensively about droughts.  See id., at 2–3, 15–26, 41–46, 49–50.  He testified that the Basin usually receives “a rather good amount of a rainfall,” so “major problems arise” only during “the low rainfall years.”  Id., at 13.  That is why he limited his testimony to the “impacts of [Georgia’s] consumption during drought.”  Id., at 15; see also id., at 20–22.

															Florida’s other experts followed this drought-centric approach.  For instance, one of Florida’s experts on the harm to Florida’s oysters connected that harm to “severe drought,” which “reduced the discharge of fresh water from the Apalachicola River.”  Updated PFDT of David Kimbro 14.  Florida’s expert on the harm to sturgeon, mussels, and tupelo trees in the Apalachicola River similarly emphasized “dry periods of episodically dry years.”  Allan 17; see also id., at 25–27 (emphasizing the effects of sustained flows below 6,000 cubic feet per second).  As one Florida expert put it, “[t]he discussions that [he] had, especially with the biologists and the hydrologists, were largely almost exclusively focused on dry years” and he “c[ould]n’t think of any” “issues [that] other experts raised about average or wet-year problems.”  11 Trial Tr. 2811.

															The other evidence presented at trial leaves little doubt that Florida would not benefit from additional water during nondroughts.  For starters, when the Basin is not experiencing a drought, water is plentiful.  Florida’s expert testified that “[a]verage rainfall in the portion of the . . . Basin above [Lake Seminole] is 51.5 inches per year, a rather good amount of a rainfall.”  Hornberger 13.  As a result, average monthly flows in the Apalachicola River are nearly 20,000 cubic feet per second.  Direct Testimony of Sorab Panday 30 (Panday).  More than 95% of the time, Apalachicola River flows exceed 6,000 cubic feet per second.  Brief for Unites States 12.  And it is not unusual for flows in the Apalachicola River to exceed 50,000 cubic feet per second in the wetter months.  See Panday 30.  Even during drought years, flows in nonsummer months are relatively high.  For instance, in the severe drought year of 2012, flow in the late winter and early spring regularly exceeded 10,000 cubic feet per second.  See Bedient 29.

															Almost all of the additional water generated by a cap on Georgia would reach Florida during these high flow periods, when it would provide no benefit to Florida.  See id., at 27–30.  Take, for instance, the oysters in Apalachicola Bay—the only harm to Florida that the Special Master found in this case.  See Report 31–32.  Florida’s own experts testified that, even if Georgia cut its agricultural water use in half during droughts, the resulting increase in Apalachicola River flows would have a negligible effect during nondroughts.  During years of normal rainfall and the wetter months of drought years, the effect of additional flows on the Bay’s salinity is less than one part per thousand.  See 7 Trial Tr. 1768–1775.  This immeasurable effect on the Bay’s salinity would have no appreciable impact on oyster biomass.  See White 50–51 (showing a less than 0.6% impact on oyster biomass, except in drier months and drought years).

															Assuming Florida’s claims of harm to mussels, sturgeon, and tupelo trees have merit—something the Special Master never found—the harm to those species also would not be remedied by increased flows during nondroughts.  Florida’s expert on these species opined that significant harm to mussels occurs when flows drop below a threshold of 6,000 cubic feet per second for more than seven consecutive days between June 1 and September 30, Allan 33; that significant harm to sturgeons occurs when flows drop below a threshold of 7,000 cubic feet per second for more than 60 total days between May 1 and September 30, id., at 41; and that significant harm to tupelo trees occurs when flows drop below a threshold of 14,100 cubic feet per second for more than 90 consecutive days between March 20 and September 22, id., at 33, 41, 44–45.  Accepting these statements as true, passing more water through to Florida during nondroughts would not do these species any good.  All would still suffer the same harms during the summers of drought years when flows remain fixed at 5,000 cubic feet per second because of the Corps’ operations.

															If we contrast the de minimus benefits that Florida might receive from small amounts of additional water during nondroughts with the massive harms that Georgia would suffer if this Court cut its water use in half during droughts, it is clear who should prevail in this case.  Florida’s expert estimated that a cap on Georgia would have an “[i]ncremental [f]iscal [c]ost” of $35.2 million per year.  Sunding 44.  This figure included only additional costs that would require “the [Georgia] legislature . . . to appropriate money.”  11 Trial Tr. 2791.  The real cost of such a cap, which includes nongovernmental costs like welfare losses, would range anywhere from $191 million, id., at 2787; Stavins 31, to more than $2 billion per year, id., at 2.  And the cap would trigger resulting losses in Georgia’s gross regional product and employment, totaling around $322 million and 4,173 jobs annually.  Id., at 40.  Regardless of the measure used, this harm dwarfs the value of Florida’s entire fishing industry in Apalachicola Bay, which pro- duces annual revenues of $11.7 million.  Id., at 16.  And it greatly outweighs the value of the additional oysters that a cap on Georgia’s use might produce—i.e., no more than a few hundred thousand dollars.  Id., at 52.  Imposing an enormously high cost on one State so that another State can achieve a hollow victory is “not the high equity that moves the conscience of the court in giving judgment between states.”  Washington, 297 U. S., at 523.

															*  *  *

															In the final analysis, Florida has not shown that it will appreciably benefit from a cap on Georgia’s water use.  Absent such a showing, the balance of harms cannot tip in Florida’s favor.  Accordingly, I would have overruled Florida’s objections to the Special Master’s Report and denied Florida’s request for relief.  I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 If the amount of water in the Corps’ reservoirs falls to critically low levels, then the Corps will release only 4,500 cubic feet per second into the Apalachicola River.  These extreme drought operations have not been triggered in recent droughts.  See Direct Testimony of Phillip Bedient 14 (Bedient).  (showing that flows remained around 5,000 cubic feet per second during the 2011 and 2012 droughts). 

2
 The U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service did not agree.  It concluded that the minimum flows in the proposed manual and interim operating plans were sufficient to protect endangered species in the Apalachicola River.  Zeng 46–47. 

3
 The United States has made similar representations to this Court.  See, e.g., Brief for United States 26–29 (explaining that the Corps “would not generally expect” flows into Florida to increase during droughts, even if Florida convinced this Court to cap Georgia’s water use). 

4
 The Special Master noted that Florida’s alleged injuries to mussels, sturgeon, and tupelo trees were “less compelling.”  Report 64, n. 42. 

5
 As for Georgia’s municipal and industrial water use, the Special Master concluded that it was “less clear” that these uses were “unreasonable,” given that Georgia had “taken significant steps to conserve water in the Atlanta metropolitan region.”  Id., at 34, n. 28. 

6
 The Court places great weight on the fact that the Special Master referred to redressability as a “threshold” requirement.  See ante, at 8–9, 15, 19.  But showing an appreciable benefit is a “threshold” requirement for prevailing under the balance-of-harms test, as a State that cannot show an appreciable benefit obviously cannot show that the balance of harms tilts in its favor.  In other words, the Court need not engage in a full-scale balancing of benefits and harms if the party that bears the burden of proof has nothing to place on its side of the scale; it can reject that type of case at the “threshold.”  That the Special Master used the word “threshold” does not suggest that he was doing anything other than applying the ordinary balance-of-harms test. 

7
 In faulting the Special Master for requiring clear and convincing evidence, the Court combines the rule from Idaho II with the balance-of-harms test from Kansas I, Washington, and Idaho I.  See ante, at 18.  The Court reconciles these precedents as follows: “[T]hese [cases] apply to the general availability of judicial relief—not to the details of a final decree or to the workability of a decree that will depend on those details.”  Ibid.  I do not understand this sentence, and I pity the litigants and Special Masters who will be forced to decipher it. 

8
 The Court concedes that Florida cannot prevail in this case unless it proves, by clear and convincing evidence, that it would obtain an appreciable benefit from an equitable apportionment.  See ante, at 18 (noting that the appreciable benefit test “ ‘goes to the merits’ of the equitable apportionment inquiry”); ante, at 19 (noting “a remand is necessary to conduct the equitable-balancing inquiry”); ante, at 36 (noting that Florida must ultimately prevail in the balance of harms test). 

9
 It makes no difference whether the additional water generated by a cap on Georgia would enter the Flint River.  Contra, Brief for Plaintiff 26, 38–39.  If additional water entered the Flint River during droughts, the Corps would release less water from its upstream reservoirs on the Chattahoochee River to maintain a consistent flow of around 5,000 cubic feet per second from the Jim Woodruff Dam at Lake Seminole.  See Bedient 24–26; Brief for United States 24–25. 

10
 The Court contends that I have confused “droughts” and “drought operations.”  See ante, at 29–30.  I have not, but the Court has.  During droughts—periods in which there is a “lack of rain,” 4 Oxford English Dictionary 1076 (2d ed. 1989)—the amount of water that naturally flows into the Basin rivers usually falls below 5,000 cubic feet per second, particularly in the summer and fall months.  See infra, at 29–31.  Since the Corps must ensure that the Apalachicola River always receives at least 5,000 cubic feet per second, the Corps augments the natural streamflow during droughts—even when the Corps is not in drought operations.  Bedient 21.  Thus, any additional water that a cap on Georgia generates during droughts would only increase streamflow into the Apalachicola River if it caused the natural streamflow to exceed 5,000 cubic feet per second.  If the additional water increased streamflow to some amount less than that, then it would not increase flows in the Apalachicola River; it would simply decrease the amount of water that the Corps must release from its reservoirs.  See ibid.  Thus, as Georgia’s expert explained, “reducing Georgia’s consumptive use would only lead to additional . . . flow into Florida under specific and limited circumstances.  First, the Corps cannot be in Drought Operations or [Extreme Drought Operations].  Second, Basin Inflow cannot be below 5,000 [cubic feet per second], even if the Corps is in normal operations.”  Id., at 26 (emphasis added). 

11
 The Court contends that additional water from a cap on Georgia likely would have passed through to Florida in the summer of 2009.  See ante, at 26–27.  But this evidence is irrelevant.  As Florida’s own expert testified, “[t]he year 2009 was a relatively wet year.”  Hornberger 49; accord, Bedient 45.  And Florida has only asked this Court to reduce Georgia’s consumption by 1,500 to 2,000 cubic feet per second during “severe drought years,” which 2009 was not.  Hornberger 58. The Court also contends that additional water from a cap on Georgia likely would have passed through to Florida in the summers of 2016 and 2017.  See ante, at 26–27, 32.  The Court’s data was generated simultaneously with or after most of the testimony in this case, so the experts do not speak to it.  But even considering the data that the Court has found, I suspect that 2016 and 2017 are not “severe drought years” either and, thus, are irrelevant. 

12
 The Court claims that “Florida’s proposed consumption cap . . . will mean (consistent with the testimony of the very Georgia expert that the dissent so frequently quotes) that there will be significantly fewer such days [of drought operations].”  Ante, at 30.  I assume that the “Georgia expert” in this sentence is Dr. Philip Bedient.  But I am aware of no testimony from Dr. Bedient that supports the Court’s assertion, and the Court cites none. 

13
 If the Corps had been in drought operations, the results would not have differed much, demonstrating that whether the Corps is in drought or nondrought operations is not dispositive.  Had the Corps been in drought operations during 2007, for instance, Florida would have received the additional water from a cap on Georgia during 14 days in the summer and fall—a difference of only five days as compared to nondrought operations.  Bedient 28. 


