::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-013
::decision_cite:: 15-1509
::decision_name::  U. S. Bank N. A. v. Village at Lakeridge, LLC
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 15–1509

															_________________

															U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, TRUSTEE, by and through CWCAPITAL ASSET MANAGEMENT LLC, PETITIONER v. THE VILLAGE AT LAKERIDGE, LLC

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[March 5, 2018]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Kennedy, Justice Thomas, and Justice Gorsuch join, concurring.

															The Court granted certiorari to decide “[w]hether the appropriate standard of review for determining non-statutory insider status” under the Bankruptcy Code is de novo or clear error.  Pet. for Cert. i.  To answer that question, the Court “take[s] . . . as a given” the two-prong test that the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has adopted for determining whether a person or entity is an insider.  Ante, at 6.  I join the Court’s opinion in full because, within that context, I agree with the Court’s analysis that a determination whether a particular transaction was conducted at arm’s length is a mixed question of law and fact that should be reviewed for clear error.  See ante, at 10–11.

															I write separately, however, because I am concerned that our holding eludes the more fundamental question whether the Ninth Circuit’s underlying test is correct.  If that test is not the right one, our holding regarding the standard of review may be for naught.  That is because the appropriate standard of review is deeply intertwined with the test being applied.  As the Court puts it, “the standard of review for a mixed question all depends—on whether answering it entails primarily legal or factual work.”  Ante, at 9.

															Here, the Court identifies the Ninth Circuit as having affirmed on the basis of the second prong of its test, pursuant to which the Ninth Circuit concluded that the relevant transaction between Robert Rabkin and MBP Equity Partners was conducted at arm’s length.  Ante, at 6.  Because that analysis is primarily factual in nature, the Court rightly concludes that appellate review of the Bankruptcy Court’s decision is for clear error.  Ante, at 10–11.  However, if the proper inquiry did not turn solely on an arm’s-length analysis but rather involved a different balance of legal and factual work, the Court may have come to a different conclusion on the standard of review.

															The Court’s discussion of the standard of review thus begs the question of what the appropriate test for determining non-statutory insider status is.  I do not seek to answer that question, as the Court expressly declined to grant certiorari on it.  I have some concerns with the Ninth Circuit’s test, however, that would benefit from additional consideration by the lower courts.

															As the Ninth Circuit interpreted the Code, “[a] creditor is not a non-statutory insider unless: (1) the closeness of its relationship with the debtor is comparable to that of the enumerated insider classifications in [11 U. S. C.] §101(31), and (2) the relevant transaction is negotiated at less than arm’s length.”  In re Village at Lakeridge, LLC, 814 F. 3d 993, 1001 (2016) (emphasis added).  Under this test, because prongs one and two are conjunctive, a court’s conclusion that the relevant transaction was conducted at arm’s length necessarily defeats a finding of non-statutory insider status, regardless of how close a person’s relationship with the debtor is or whether he is otherwise comparable to a statutorily enumerated insider.[1]

															It is not clear to me, however, that the Ninth Circuit has explained how this two-prong test is consistent with the plain meaning of the term “insider” as it appears in the Code.  The concept of “insider” generally rests on the presumption that a person or entity alleged to be an in- sider is so connected with the debtor that any business conducted between them necessarily cannot be conducted at arm’s length.  See Black’s Law Dictionary 915 (10th ed. 2014) (defining “insider” as “[a]n entity or person who is so closely related to a debtor that any deal between them will not be considered an arm’s-length transaction and will be subject to close scrutiny”).  Title

11 U. S. C. §101(31) defines “insider” by identifying certain individuals or entities who are considered insiders merely on the basis of their status, without regard to whether any relevant transaction is conducted at arm’s length.  Such an individual is not under any circumstance able to vote for a reorganization plan.  See §1129(a)(10).

															In contrast, under prong two of the Ninth Circuit’s test, an individual who is similar to, but does not fall precisely within, one of the categories of insiders listed in §101(31) will not be considered an insider and will be able to vote under §1129(a)(10) so long as the transaction relevant to the bankruptcy proceeding is determined to have been conducted at arm’s length.  This would include, for example, a romantic partner of an insider, even one who in all or most respects acts like a spouse.

															Given that courts have interpreted “non-statutory insiders” as deriving from the same statutory definition as the enumerated insiders in §101(31), the basis for the disparate treatment of two similar individuals is not immediately apparent.  Lower courts have concluded that the Code’s use of the term “includes” in the definition of “insider” in §101(31) signals that Congress contemplated that certain other persons or entities in addition to those listed would qualify as insiders.  See ante, at 2.  Notably, this Court has never addressed that issue directly, although the Court has held in other contexts that “the term ‘including’ is not one of all-embracing definition, but connotes simply an illustrative application of the general principle.”  Federal Land Bank of St. Paul v. Bismarck Lumber Co.,

314 U. S. 95,
100 (1941)
.

															Assuming §101(31) encompasses such “non-statutory insiders,” the only clue we have as to which persons or entities fall within that category is the list of enumerated insiders and the presumption of lack of arm’s length that follows from that label.  Because each of those persons or entities are considered insiders regardless of whether a particular transaction appears to have been conducted at arm’s length, it is not clear why the same should not be true of non-statutory insiders.  That is, an enumerated “insider” does not cease being an insider just because a court finds that a relevant transaction was conducted at arm’s length.  Then why should a finding that a transaction was conducted at arm’s length, without more, conclusively foreclose a finding that a person or entity is a “non-statutory insider”?

															Of course, courts must develop some principled method of determining what other individuals or entities fall within the term “insider” other than those expressly provided.  I can conceive of at least two possible legal standards that are consistent with the understanding that insider status inherently presumes that transactions are not conducted at arm’s length.  First, it could be that the inquiry should focus solely on a comparison between the characteristics of the alleged non-statutory insider and the enumerated insiders, and if they share sufficient commonalities, the alleged person or entity should be deemed an insider regardless of the apparent arm’s-length nature of any transaction.  Cf. In re Longview Aluminum, LLC, 657 F.3d 507, 510–511 (CA7 2011) (considering only whether a manager of a debtor corporation was comparable to the enumerated insiders, regardless of whether any transaction was conducted at less-than-arm’s length).  

															Second, it could be that the test should focus on a broader comparison that includes consideration of the circumstances surrounding any relevant transaction.  If a transaction is determined to have been conducted at less-than-arm’s length, it may provide strong evidence in the context of the relationship as a whole that the alleged non-statutory insider should indeed be considered an insider.  Relatedly, if the transaction does appear to have been undertaken at arm’s length, that may be evidence, considered together with other aspects of the parties’ relationship, that the alleged non-statutory insider should not, in fact, be deemed an insider.

															Neither of these conceptions reflects the Ninth Circuit’s test.  Rather, the Ninth Circuit considered separately whether Rabkin was comparable to an enumerated insider and whether the transaction between Rabkin and MBP was conducted at arm’s length.  See 814 F. 3d, at 1002–1003.  Because the Ninth Circuit concluded that the transaction was undertaken at arm’s length, that finding was dispositive of non-statutory insider status under their test, leading this Court, in turn, to consider the standard of review only with respect to that prong.

															It is conceivable, however, that if the appropriate test were different from the one articulated by the Ninth Circuit, such as the two examples I outlined above, the applicable standard of review would be different as well.  See ante, at 6, 9, n. 5.  To make more concrete how this may play out in practice, I briefly walk through how I might apply my two proposed tests to the facts of this case.

															If a comparative analysis were the right test, and assuming, arguendo, that it involves more legal than factual work thus resulting in de novo review, certain aspects of Rabkin’s relationship with Kathleen Bartlett, an undisputed insider of the debtor, strike me as suggesting that Rabkin should have been designated as a non-statutory insider.  Rabkin purchased the claim from MBP, but Bartlett, a member of MBP’s board, facilitated the transaction.  Even though Rabkin and Bartlett kept separate finances and lived separately, they shared a “romantic” relationship, see ante, at 4; Rabkin knew that the debtor was in bankruptcy, 814 F. 3d, at 1003; and Bartlett approached only Rabkin with the offer to sell MBP’s claim, id., at 1002.  In a strict comparative analysis, Rabkin’s interactions with Bartlett and MBP suggest that he may have been acting comparable to an enumerated insider, for example, like a relative of an officer of an insider.  See §101(31)(B)(vi).

															Even if the comparative analysis included a broader consideration of features of the transaction that suggest it was conducted at arm’s length, and assuming, arguendo, that de novo review would apply, it is not obvious that those features would outweigh the aspects of the relationship that are concerning.  Even though Rabkin purport- edly lacked knowledge of the cramdown plan prior to his purchase and considered the purchase a “small investment” not warranting due diligence, 814 F. 3d, at 1003, there was no evidence of negotiation over the price, id., at 1004 (Clifton, J., dissenting), or any concrete evidence that MBP obtained real value in the deal aside from the prospect of Rabkin’s vote in the cramdown.[2]

															Even if the proper test for insider status called for clear error review, it is possible that the facts of this case when considered through the lens of that test, as opposed to one focused solely on arm’s length, may have warranted a finding that Rabkin was a non-statutory insider.

															This is all to say that I hope that courts will continue to grapple with the role that an arm’s-length inquiry should play in a determination of insider status.  In the event that the appropriate test for determining non-statutory insider status is different from the one that the Ninth Circuit applied, and involves a different balance of legal and factual work than the Court addresses here, it is possible I would view the applicable standard of review differently.  Because I do not read the Court’s opinion as foreclosing that result, I join it in full.
Notes
1
 Other Circuits have developed analogous rules.  See, e.g., Matter of Holloway, 955 F. 2d 1008, 1011 (CA5 1992); In re U. S. Medical, Inc., 531 F. 3d 1272, 1277–1278 (CA10 2008); In re Winstar Communications, Inc., 554 F. 3d 382, 396–397 (CA3 2009).  But see In re Longview Aluminum, LLC, 657 F.3d 507, 510 (CA7 2011). 

2
 Outside the context of a determination of insider status, it is possible that the nature of a transaction is relevant to assessing the integ-rity of bankruptcy proceedings in other ways; for example, in assessing whether a vote in a reorganization plan was “not in good faith, or was not solicited or procured in good faith.”  §1126(e).  It troubles me here that neither the Bankruptcy Court nor the Ninth Circuit considered whether Rabkin’s purchase of MBP’s claim for $5,000 was for value.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 67a (bankruptcy order); In re Village at Lakeridge, LLC, 634 Fed. Appx. 619, 621 (2016).  Cf. In re DBSD North Am., Inc., 634 F. 3d 79, 104 (CA2 2011) (stating that a transferee’s overpayment for claims was relevant to a good-faith determination under §1126(e)); §548(c) (providing that a transfer will not be considered constructively fraudulent, and will not be voidable under §548(a), where “a transferee . . . takes for value and in good faith”).  Indeed, we have no concrete information about what benefit MBP received from the transaction aside from the prospect of Rabkin’s vote in the cramdown.  Of course, the Ninth Circuit’s decision with respect to §1126(e) is not before this Court, but it again prompts a concern with how the courts below considered the nature of the transaction. 


