::SCDB_caseID:: 2016-061
::decision_cite:: 15-1503
::decision_name::  Turner v. United States
::decision_year:: 2017
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 15–1503 and 15–1504

															_________________

															CHARLES S. TURNER, et al., PETITIONERS

															15–1503v.

															UNITED STATES

															

															RUSSELL L. OVERTON, PETITIONER

															15–1504v.

															UNITED STATES

															on writs of certiorari to the district of columbia court of appeals

															[June 22, 2017]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins, dissenting.

															Consider two criminal cases.  In the first, the government accuses ten defendants of acting together to commit a vicious murder and robbery.  At trial, each defendant accepts that the attack occurred almost exactly as the government describes—contending only that he wasn’t part of the rampaging group.  The defendants thus undermine each other’s arguments at every turn.  In the second case, the government makes the same arguments as before.  But this time, all of the accused adopt a common defense, built around an alternative account of the crime.  Armed with new evidence that someone else perpetrated the murder, the defendants vigorously dispute the government’s gang-attack narrative and challenge the credibility of its investigation.  The question this case presents is whether such a unified defense, relying on evidence unavailable in the first scenario, had a “reason-able probability” (less than a preponderance) of shiftingeven one juror’s vote.  Cone v. Bell,

556 U. S. 449,
452,
470 (2009)
; see Kyles v. Whitley,

514 U. S. 419,
434 (1995)
.

															That is the relevant question because the Government here knew about but withheld the evidence of an alternative perpetrator—and so prevented the defendants from coming together to press that theory of the case.  If the Government’s non-disclosure was material, in the sense just described, this Court’s decision in Brady v. Maryland,

373 U. S. 83 (1963)
, demands a new trial.  The Court today holds it was not material: In light of the evidence the Government offered, the majority argues, the transformed defense stood little chance of persuading a juror to vote to acquit.  That conclusion is not indefensible: The Government put on quite a few witnesses who said that the defendants committed the crime.  But in the end, I think the majority gets the answer in this case wrong.  With the undisclosed evidence, the whole tenor of the trial would have changed.  Rather than relying on a “not me, maybe them” defense, ante, at 6, all the defendants would have relentlessly impeached the Government’s (thoroughly impeachable) witnesses and offered the jurors a way to view the crime in a different light.  In my view, that could well have flipped one or more jurors—which is all Brady requires.

															Before explaining that view, I note that the majority and I share some common ground.  We agree on the universe of exculpatory or impeaching evidence suppressed in this case: The majority’s description of that evidence, and of the trial held without it, is scrupulously fair.  See ante, at 2–6, 7–9.  We also agree—as does the Government—that such evidence ought to be disclosed to defendants as a matter of course.  See ante, at 10.  Constitutional requirements aside, turning over exculpatory materials is a core responsibility of all prosecutors—whose professional interest and obligation is not to win cases but to ensure justice is done.  See Kyles, 514 U. S., at 439.  And finally, we agree on the legal standard by which to assess the materiality of undisclosed evidence for purposes of applying the constitutional rule: Courts are to ask whether there is a “reasonable probability” that disclosure of the evidence would have led to a different outcome—i.e., an acquittal or hung jury rather than a conviction.  See ante, at 10.

															But I part ways with the majority in applying that standard to the evidence withheld in this case.  That evidence falls into three basic categories, discussed below.  Taken together, the materials would have recast the trial significantly—so much so as to “undermine[ ] confidence” in the guilty verdicts reached in their absence.  Kyles, 514 U. S., at 434.

															First, the Government suppressed information identifying a possible alternative perpetrator.  The defendants knew that, shortly before the police arrived, witnesses had observed two men acting suspiciously near the alleyway garage where Catherine Fuller’s body was found.  But they did not know—because the Government never told them—that a witness had identified one of those men as James McMillan.  Equipped with that information, the defendants would have discovered that in the weeks following Fuller’s murder, McMillan assaulted and robbed two other women of comparable age in the same neighborhood.  And using that information, the defendants would have united around a common defense.  They would all have pointed their fingers at McMillan (rather than at each other), arguing that he committed Fuller’s murder as part of a string of similar crimes.

															Second, the Government suppressed witness statements suggesting that one or two perpetrators—not a large group—carried out the attack.  Those statements were given by two individuals who walked past the garage around the time of Fuller’s death.  They told the police that they heard groans coming from inside the garage; and one remarked that the garage’s doors were closed at the time.  Introducing that evidence at trial would have sown doubt about the Government’s group-attack narrative, because that many people (as everyone agrees) couldn’t have fit inside the small garage.  And the questions thus raised would have further supported the defendants’ theory that McMillan (and perhaps an accomplice) had committed the murder.

															Third and finally, the Government suppressed a raft of evidence discrediting its investigation and impeaching its witnesses.  Undisclosed files, for example, showed that the police took more than nine months to look into a witness’s claim that a man named James Blue had murdered Fuller.  Evidence of that kind of negligence could easily have led jurors to wonder about the competence of all the police work done in the case.  Other withheld documents revealed that one of the Government’s main witnesses was high on PCP when she met with investigators to identify participants in the crime—and that she also encouraged a friend to lie to the police to support her story.  Using that sort of information, see also ante, at 9, the defendants could have undercut the Government’s witnesses—even while presenting their own account of the murder.

															In reply to all this, the majority argues that “none of the [accused] attempted to mount [an alternative-perpetrator] defense” and that such a defense would have challenged “the very cornerstone of the Government’s case.”  Ante, at 12.  But that just proves my point.  The defendants didn’t offer an alternative-perpetrator defense because the Government prevented them from learning what made it credible: that one of the men seen near the garage had a record of assaulting and robbing middle-aged women, and that witnesses would back up the theory that only one or two individuals had committed the murder.  Moreover, that defense had game-changing potential exactly because it challenged the cornerstone of the Government’s case.  Without the withheld evidence, each of the defendants had little choice but to accept the Government’s framing of the crime as a group attack—and argue only that he wasn’t there.  That meant the defendants often worked at cross-purposes.  In particular, each defendant not identified by a Government witness sought to bolster that witness’s credibility, no matter the harm to his co-defendants.  As one defense lawyer remarked after another’s supposed cross-examination of a Government witness: “They’ve got [an extra] prosecutor[ ] in the courtroom now.”  Saperstein & Walsh, 10 Defendants Complicate Trial, Washington Post, Nov. 17, 1985, p. A14, col. 1.  Credible alternative-perpetrator evidence would have allowed the defendants to escape this cycle of mutually assured destruction.  By enabling the defendants to jointly attack the Government’s “cornerstone” theory, the withheld evidence would have reframed the case presented to the jury.

															Still, the majority claims, an alternative-perpetrator defense would have had no realistic chance of changing the outcome because the Government had ample evidence of a group attack, including five witnesses who testified that they had participated in it or seen it happen.  See ante, at 12–13.  But the Government’s case wasn’t nearly the slam-dunk the majority suggests.  No physical evidence tied any of the defendants to the crime—a highly surprising fact if, as the Government claimed, more than ten people carried out a spur-of-the-moment, rampage-like attack in a confined space.  And as even the majority recognizes, the Government’s five eyewitnesses had some serious credibility deficits.  See ibid.  Two had been charged as defendants, and agreed to testify only in exchange for favorable plea deals.  See 116 A. 3d 894, 902 (D. C. 2015). Two admitted they were high on PCP at the time.  See id., at 903, 911; App. A535–A536, A649. (As noted above, one was also high when she later met with police to identify the culprits.)  One was an eighth-grader whose own aunt contradicted parts of his trial testimony.  See 116 A. 3d, at 903, 911.  Even in the absence of an alternative account of the crime, the jury took more than a week—and many dozens of votes—to reach its final verdict.  Had the defendants offered a unified counter-narrative, based on the withheld evidence, one or more jurors could well have concluded that the Government had not proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt.

															Again, the issue here concerns the difference between two criminal cases.  The Government got the case it most wanted—the one in which the defendants, each in an effort to save himself, formed something of a circular firing squad.  And the Government avoided the case it most feared—the one in which the defendants acted jointly to show that a man known to assault women like Fuller committed her murder.  The difference between the two cases lay in the Government’s files—evidence of obvious relevance that prosecutors nonetheless chose to suppress.  I think it could have mattered to the trial’s outcome.  For that reason, I respectfully dissent.
													
