::SCDB_caseID:: 2016-051
::decision_cite:: 15-214
::decision_name::  Murr v. Wisconsin
::decision_year:: 2017
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 15–214

															_________________

															JOSEPH P. MURR, et al., PETITIONERS v. WISCONSIN, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeals of wisconsin, district iii

															[June 23, 2017]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Alito join, dissenting.

															The Murr family owns two adjacent lots along the Lower St. Croix River.  Under a local regulation, those two properties may not be “sold or developed as separate lots” because neither contains a sufficiently large area of buildable land.  Wis. Admin. Code §NR 118.08(4)(a)(2) (2017).  The Court today holds that the regulation does not effect a taking that requires just compensation.  This bottom-line conclusion does not trouble me; the majority presents a fair case that the Murrs can still make good use of both lots, and that the ordinance is a commonplace tool to preserve scenic areas, such as the Lower St. Croix River, for the benefit of landowners and the public alike.

															Where the majority goes astray, however, is in concluding that the definition of the “private property” at issue in a case such as this turns on an elaborate test looking not only to state and local law, but also to (1) “the physical characteristics of the land,” (2) “the prospective value of the regulated land,” (3) the “reasonable expectations” of the owner, and (4) “background customs and the whole of our legal tradition.”  Ante, at 11–12.  Our decisions have, time and again, declared that the Takings Clause protects private property rights as state law creates and defines them.  By securing such established property rights, the Takings Clause protects individuals from being forced to bear the full weight of actions that should be borne by the public at large.  The majority’s new, malleable definition of “private property”—adopted solely “for purposes of th[e] takings inquiry,” ante, at 20—undermines that protection.

															I would stick with our traditional approach: State law defines the boundaries of distinct parcels of land, and those boundaries should determine the “private property” at issue in regulatory takings cases.  Whether a regulation effects a taking of that property is a separate question, one in which common ownership of adjacent property may be taken into account.  Because the majority departs from these settled principles, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															A

															The Takings Clause places a condition on the government’s power to interfere with property rights, instructing that “private property [shall not] be taken for public use, without just compensation.”  Textually and logically, this Clause raises three basic questions that individuals, governments, and judges must consider when anticipating or deciding whether the government will have to provide reimbursement for its actions.  The first is what “pri-vate property” the government’s planned course of conduct will affect.  The second, whether that property has been “taken” for “public use.”  And if “private property” has been “taken,” the last item of business is to calculate the “just compensation” the owner is due.

															Step one—identifying the property interest at stake—requires looking outside the Constitution.  The word “property” in the Takings Clause means “the group of rights inhering in [a] citizen’s relation to [a] . . . thing, as the right to possess, use and dispose of it.”  United States v. General Motors Corp.,

323 U. S. 373,
378 (1945)
.  The Clause does not, however, provide the definition of those rights in any particular case.  Instead, “property interests . . . are created and their dimensions are defined by existing rules or understandings that stem from an independent source such as state law.”  Ruckelshaus v. Monsanto Co.,

467 U. S. 986,
1001 (1984)
 (alteration and internal quotation marks omitted).  By protecting these established rights, the Takings Clause stands as a buffer between property owners and governments, which might naturally look to put private property to work for the public at large.

															When government action interferes with property rights, the next question becomes whether that interference amounts to a “taking.”  “The paradigmatic taking . . . is a direct government appropriation or physical invasion of private property.”  Lingle v. Chevron U. S. A. Inc.,

544 U. S. 528,
537 (2005)
.  These types of actions give rise to “per se taking[s]” because they are “perhaps the most serious form[s] of invasion of an owner’s property interests, depriving the owner of the rights to possess, use and dispose of the property.”  Horne v. Department of Agriculture, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 7) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															But not all takings are so direct: Governments can infringe private property interests for public use not only through appropriations, but through regulations as well.  If compensation were required for one but not the other, “the natural tendency of human nature” would be to extend regulations “until at last private property disappears.”  Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon,

260 U. S. 393,
415 (1922)
.  Our regulatory takings decisions, then, have recognized that, “while property may be regulated to a certain extent, if regulation goes too far it will be recognized as a taking.”  Ibid.  This rule strikes a balance between property owners’ rights and the government’s authority to advance the common good.  Owners can rest assured that they will be compensated for particularly onerous regulatory actions, while governments maintain the freedom to adjust the benefits and burdens of property ownership without incurring crippling costs from each alteration.

															Depending, of course, on how far is “too far.”  We have said often enough that the answer to this question generally resists per se rules and rigid formulas.  There are, however, a few fixed principles: The inquiry “must be conducted with respect to specific property.”  Keystone Bituminous Coal Assn. v. DeBenedictis,

480 U. S. 470,
495 (1987)
 (internal quotation marks omitted).  And if a “regulation denies all economically beneficial or productive use of land,” the interference categorically amounts to a taking.  Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council,

505 U. S. 1003,
1015 (1992)
.  For the vast array of regulations that lack such an extreme effect, a flexible approach is more fitting.  The factors to consider are wide ranging, and include the economic impact of the regulation, the owner’s investment-backed expectations, and the character of the government action.  The ultimate question is whether the government’s imposition on a property has forced the owner “to bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.”  Penn Central Transp. Co. v. New York City,

438 U. S. 104,
123 (1978)
 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Finally, if a taking has occurred, the remaining matter is tabulating the “just compensation” to which the property owner is entitled.  “[J]ust compensation normally is tobe measured by the market value of the property at the time of the taking.”  Horne, 576 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															B

															Because a regulation amounts to a taking if it completely destroys a property’s productive use, there is an incen-tive for owners to define the relevant “private property” narrowly.  This incentive threatens the careful balance between property rights and government authority that our regulatory takings doctrine strikes: Put in terms of the familiar “bundle” analogy, each “strand” in the bundle of rights that comes along with owning real property is a distinct property interest.  If owners could define the relevant “private property” at issue as the specific “strand” that the challenged regulation affects, they could convert nearly all regulations into per se takings.

															And so we do not allow it.  In Penn Central Transportation Co. v. New York City, we held that property owners may not “establish a ‘taking’ simply by showing that they have been denied the ability to exploit a property interest.”  438 U. S., at 130.  In that case, the owner of Grand Central Terminal in New York City argued that a restriction on the owner’s ability to add an office building atop the station amounted to a taking of its air rights.  We rejected that narrow definition of the “property” at issue, concluding that the correct unit of analysis was the owner’s “rights in the parcel as a whole.”  Id., at 130–131.  “[W]here an owner possesses a full ‘bundle’ of property rights, the destruction of one strand of the bundle is not a taking, because the aggregate must be viewed in its entirety.”  Andrus v. Allard,

444 U. S. 51
–66 (1979); see Tahoe-Sierra Preservation Council, Inc. v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency,

535 U. S. 302,
327 (2002)
.

															The question presented in today’s case concerns the “parcel as a whole” language from Penn Central.  This enigmatic phrase has created confusion about how to identify the relevant property in a regulatory takings case when the claimant owns more than one plot of land.  Should the impact of the regulation be evaluated with respect to each individual plot, or with respect to adjacent plots grouped together as one unit?  According to the majority, a court should answer this question by considering a number of facts about the land and the regulation at issue.  The end result turns on whether those factors “would lead a landowner to anticipate that his holdings would be treated as one parcel, or, instead, as separate tracts.”  Ante, at 12.

															I think the answer is far more straightforward: State laws define the boundaries of distinct units of land, and those boundaries should, in all but the most exceptional circumstances, determine the parcel at issue.  Even in regulatory takings cases, the first step of the Takings Clause analysis is still to identify the relevant “private property.”  States create property rights with respect to particular “things.”  And in the context of real property, those “things” are horizontally bounded plots of land.  Tahoe-Sierra, 535 U. S., at 331 (“An interest in real property is defined by the metes and bounds that describe its geographic dimensions”).  States may define those plots differently—some using metes and bounds, others using government surveys, recorded plats, or subdivision maps.  See 11 D. Thomas, Thompson on Real Property §94.07(s) (2d ed. 2002); Powell on Real Property §81A.05(2)(a) (M. Wolf ed. 2016).  But the definition of property draws the basic line between, as P. G. Wodehouse would put it, meum and tuum.  The question of who owns what is pretty important: The rules must provide a readily ascertainable definition of the land to which a particular bundle of rights attaches that does not vary depending upon the purpose at issue.  See, e.g., Wis. Stat. §236.28 (2016) (“[T]he lots in [a] plat shall be described by the name of the plat and the lot and block . . . for all purposes, including those of assessment, taxation, devise, descent and conveyance”).

															Following state property lines is also entirely consistent with Penn Central.  Requiring consideration of the “parcel as a whole” is a response to the risk that owners will strategically pluck one strand from their bundle of property rights—such as the air rights at issue in Penn Central—and claim a complete taking based on that strand alone.  That risk of strategic unbundling is not present when a legally distinct parcel is the basis of the regulatory takings claim.  State law defines all of the interests that come along with owning a particular parcel, and both property owners and the government must take those rights as they find them.

															The majority envisions that relying on state law will create other opportunities for “gamesmanship” by landowners and States: The former, it contends, “might seek to alter [lot] lines in anticipation of regulation,” while the latter might pass a law that “consolidates . . . property” to avoid a successful takings claim.  Ante, at 11, 17.  But such obvious attempts to alter the legal landscape in anticipation of a lawsuit are unlikely and not particularly difficult to detect and disarm.  We rejected the strategic splitting of property rights in Penn Central, and courts could do the same if faced with an attempt to create a takings-specific definition of “private property.”  Cf. Phillips v. Washington Legal Foundation,

524 U. S. 156,
167 (1998)
 (“[A] State may not sidestep the Takings Clause by disavowing traditional property interests long recognized under state law”).

															Once the relevant property is identified, the real work begins.  To decide whether the regulation at issue amounts to a “taking,” courts should focus on the effect of the regulation on the “private property” at issue.  Adjacent land under common ownership may be relevant to that inquiry.  The owner’s possession of such a nearby lot could, for instance, shed light on how the owner reasonably expected to use the parcel at issue before the regulation.  If the court concludes that the government’s action amounts to a taking, principles of “just compensation” may also allow the owner to recover damages “with regard to a separate parcel” that is contiguous and used in conjunction with the parcel at issue.  4A L. Smith & M. Hansen, Nichols’ Law of Eminent Domain, ch. 14B, §14B.02 (rev. 3d ed. 2010).

															In sum, the “parcel as a whole” requirement prevents a property owner from identifying a single “strand” in his bundle of property rights and claiming that interest has been taken.  Allowing that strategic approach to defining “private property” would undermine the balance struck by our regulatory takings cases.  Instead, state law creates distinct parcels of land and defines the rights that come along with owning those parcels.  Those established bundles of rights should define the “private property” in regulatory takings cases.  While ownership of contiguous properties may bear on whether a person’s plot has been “taken,” Penn Central provides no basis for disregarding state property lines when identifying the “parcel as a whole.”

															II

															The lesson that the majority draws from Penn Central is that defining “the proper parcel in regulatory takings cases cannot be solved by any simple test.”  Ante, at 20.  Following through on that stand against simplicity, the majority lists a complex set of factors theoretically designed to reveal whether a hypothetical landowner might expect that his property “would be treated as one parcel, or, instead, as separate tracts.”  Ante, at 11.  Those factors, says the majority, show that Lots E and F of the Murrs’ property constitute a single parcel and that the local ordinance requiring the Murrs to develop and sell those lots as a pair does not constitute a taking.

															In deciding that Lots E and F are a single parcel, the majority focuses on the importance of the ordinance at issue and the extent to which the Murrs may have been especially surprised, or unduly harmed, by the application of that ordinance to their property.  But these issues should be considered when deciding if a regulation constitutes a “taking.”  Cramming them into the definition of “private property” undermines the effectiveness of the Takings Clause as a check on the government’s power to shift the cost of public life onto private individuals.

															The problem begins when the majority loses track of the basic structure of claims under the Takings Clause.  While it is true that we have referred to regulatory takings claims as involving “essentially ad hoc, factual inquiries,” we have conducted those wide-ranging investigations when assessing “the question of what constitutes a ‘taking’ ” under Penn Central.  Ruckelshaus, 467 U. S., at 1004 (emphasis added); see Tahoe-Sierra, 535 U. S., at 326 (“[W]e have generally eschewed any set formula for determining how far is too far” (emphasis added; internal quotation marks omitted)).  And even then, we reach that “ad hoc” Penn Central framework only after determining that the regulation did not deny all productive use of the parcel.  See Tahoe-Sierra, 535 U. S., at 331.  Both of these inquiries presuppose that the relevant “private property” has already been identified.  See Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Reclamation Assn., Inc.,

452 U. S. 264,
295 (1981)
 (explaining that “[t]hese ‘ad hoc, factual inquiries’ must be conducted with respect to specific property”).  There is a simple reason why the majority does not cite a single instance in which we have made that identification by relying on anything other than state property principles—we have never done so.

															In departing from state property principles, the majority authorizes governments to do precisely what we rejected in Penn Central: create a litigation-specific definition of “property” designed for a claim under the Takings Clause.  Whenever possible, governments in regulatory takings cases will ask courts to aggregate legally distinct properties into one “parcel,” solely for purposes of resisting a particular claim.  And under the majority’s test, identifying the “parcel as a whole” in such cases will turn on the reasonableness of the regulation as applied to the claimant.  The result is that the government’s regulatory interests will come into play not once, but twice—first when identifying the relevant parcel, and again when determining whether the regulation has placed too great a public burden on that property.

															Regulatory takings, however—by their very nature—pit the common good against the interests of a few.  There is an inherent imbalance in that clash of interests.  The widespread benefits of a regulation will often appear far weightier than the isolated losses suffered by individuals.  And looking at the bigger picture, the overall societal good of an economic system grounded on private property will appear abstract when cast against a concrete regulatory problem.  In the face of this imbalance, the Takings Clause “prevents the public from loading upon one individual more than his just share of the burdens of government,” Monongahela Nav. Co. v. United States,

148 U. S. 312,
325 (1893)
, by considering the effect of a regulation on specific property rights as they are established at state law.  But the majority’s approach undermines that protection, defining property only after engaging in an ad hoc, case-specific consideration of individual and community interests.  The result is that the government’s goals shape the playing field before the contest over whether the challenged regulation goes “too far” even gets underway.

															Suppose, for example, that a person buys two distinct plots of land—known as Lots A and B—from two different owners.  Lot A is landlocked, but the neighboring Lot B shares a border with a local beach.  It soon comes to light, however, that the beach is a nesting habitat for a species of turtle.  To protect this species, the state government passes a regulation preventing any development or recreation in areas abutting the beach—including Lot B.  If that lot became the subject of a regulatory takings claim, the purchaser would have a strong case for a per se taking: Even accounting for the owner’s possession of the other property, Lot B had no remaining economic value or productive use.  But under the majority’s approach, the government can argue that—based on all the circumstances and the nature of the regulation—Lots A and B should be considered one “parcel.”  If that argument succeeds, the owner’s per se takings claim is gone, and he is left to roll the dice under the Penn Central balancing framework, where the court will, for a second time, throw the reason-ableness of the government’s regulatory action into the balance.

															The majority assures that, under its test, “[d]efining the property . . . should not necessarily preordain the outcome in every case.”  Ante, at 10 (emphasis added).  The underscored language cheapens the assurance.  The framework laid out today provides little guidance for identifying whether “expectations about property ownership would lead a landowner to anticipate that his holdings would be treated as one parcel, or, instead, as separate tracts.”  Ante, at 12.  Instead, the majority’s approach will lead to definitions of the “parcel” that have far more to do with the reasonableness of applying the challenged regulation to a particular landowner.  The result is clear double counting to tip the scales in favor of the government: Reasonable government regulation should have been anticipated by the landowner, so the relevant parcel is defined consistent with that regulation.  In deciding whether there is a taking under the second step of the analysis, the regulation will seem eminently reasonable given its impact on the pre-packaged parcel.  Not, as the Court assures us, “necessarily” in “every” case, but surely in most.

															Moreover, given its focus on the particular challenged regulation, the majority’s approach must mean that two lots might be a single “parcel” for one takings claim, but separate “parcels” for another.  See ante, at 13.  This is just another opportunity to gerrymander the definition of “private property” to defeat a takings claim.  The majority also emphasizes that courts trying to identify the relevant parcel “must strive” to ensure that “some people alone [do not] bear public burdens which, in all fairness and justice, should be borne by the public as a whole.”  Ante, at 20 (internal quotation marks omitted).  But this refrain is the traditional touchstone for spotting a taking, not for defining private property.

															Put simply, today’s decision knocks the definition of “private property” loose from its foundation on stable state law rules and throws it into the maelstrom of multiple factors that come into play at the second step of the takings analysis.  The result: The majority’s new framework compromises the Takings Clause as a barrier between individuals and the press of the public interest.

															III

															Staying with a state law approach to defining “private property” would make our job in this case fairly easy.  The Murr siblings acquired Lot F in 1994 and Lot E a year later.  Once the lots fell into common ownership, the challenged ordinance prevented them from being “sold or developed as separate lots” because neither contained a sufficiently large area of buildable land.  Wis. Admin. Code §NR 118.08(4)(a)(2).  The Murrs argued that the ordinance amounted to a taking of Lot E, but the State of Wisconsin and St. Croix County proposed that both lots together should count as the relevant “parcel.”

															The trial court sided with the State and County, and the Wisconsin Court of Appeals affirmed.  Rather than considering whether Lots E and F are separate parcels under Wisconsin law, however, the Court of Appeals adopted a takings-specific approach to defining the relevant parcel.  See 2015 WI App 13, 359 Wis. 2d 675, 859 N. W. 2d 628 (unpublished opinion), App. to Pet. for Cert. A–9, ¶17 (framing the issue as “whether contiguous property is analytically divisible for purposes of a regulatory takings claim”).  Relying on what it called a “well-established rule” for “regulatory takings cases,” the court explained “that contiguous property under common ownership is considered as a whole regardless of the number of parcels contained therein.”  Id., at A–11, ¶20.  And because Lots E and F were side by side and owned by the Murrs, the case was straightforward: The two lots were one “parcel” for the regulatory takings analysis.  The court therefore evaluated the effect of the ordinance on the two lots considered together.

															As I see it, the Wisconsin Court of Appeals was wrong to apply a takings-specific definition of the property at issue.  Instead, the court should have asked whether, under general state law principles, Lots E and F are legally distinct parcels of land.  I would therefore vacate the judgment below and remand for the court to identify the relevant property using ordinary principles of Wisconsin property law.

															After making that state law determination, the next step would be to determine whether the challenged ordinance amounts to a “taking.”  If Lot E is a legally distinct parcel under state law, the Court of Appeals would have to perform the takings analysis anew, but could still consider many of the issues the majority finds important.  The majority, for instance, notes that under the ordinance the Murrs can use Lot E as “recreational space,” as the “location of any improvements,” and as a valuable addition to Lot F.  Ante, at 18.  These facts could be relevant to whether the “regulation denies all economically beneficial or productive use” of Lot E.  Lucas, 505 U. S., at 1015.  Similarly, the majority touts the benefits of the ordinance and observes that the Murrs had little use for Lot E independent of Lot F and could have predicted that Lot E would be regulated.  Ante, at 18.  These facts speak to “the economic impact of the regulation,” interference with “investment-backed expectations,” and the “character of the governmental action”—all things we traditionally consider in the Penn Central analysis.  438 U. S., at 124.

															I would be careful, however, to confine these considerations to the question whether the regulation constitutes a taking.  As Alexander Hamilton explained, “the security of Property” is one of the “great object[s] of government.”  1 Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, p. 302 (M. Farrand ed. 1911).  The Takings Clause was adopted to ensure such security by protecting property rights as they exist under state law.  Deciding whether a regulation has gone so far as to constitute a “taking” of one of those property rights is, properly enough, a fact-intensive task that relies “as much on the exercise of judgment as on the application of logic.”  MacDonald, Sommer & Frates v. Yolo County,

477 U. S. 340,
349 (1986)
 (alterations and internal quotation marks omitted).  But basing the definition of “property” on a judgment call, too, allows the government’s interests to warp the private rights that the Takings Clause is supposed to secure.

															I respectfully dissent.
													
