::SCDB_caseID:: 2015-045
::decision_cite:: 15-5040
::decision_name::  Williams v. Pennsylvania
::decision_year:: 2016
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 15–5040

															_________________

															TERRANCE WILLIAMS, PETITIONER v. PENNSYLVANIA

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of pennsylvania, eastern district

															[June 9, 2016]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Alito joins, dissenting.

															In 1986, Ronald Castille, then District Attorney of Philadelphia, authorized a prosecutor in his office to seek the death penalty against Terrance Williams.  Almost 30 years later, as Chief Justice of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, he participated in deciding whether Williams’s fifth habeas petition—which raised a claim unconnected to the prosecution’s decision to seek the death penalty—could be heard on the merits or was instead untimely.  This Court now holds that because Chief Justice Castille made a “critical” decision as a prosecutor in Williams’s case, there is a risk that he “would be so psychologically wedded” to his previous decision that it would violate the Due Process Clause for him to decide the distinct issues raised in the habeas petition.  Ante, at 6–7 (internal quotation marks omitted).  According to the Court, that conclusion follows from the maxim that “no man can be a judge in his own case.”  Ante, at 6 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															The majority opinion rests on proverb rather than precedent.  This Court has held that there is “a presumption of honesty and integrity in those serving as adjudicators.”  Withrow v. Larkin,

421 U. S. 35,
47 (1975)
.  To overcome that presumption, the majority relies on In re Murchison,

349 U. S. 133 (1955)
.  We concluded there that the Due Process Clause is violated when a judge adjudicates the same question—based on the same facts—that he had already considered as a grand juror in the same case.  Here, however, Williams does not allege that Chief Justice Castille had any previous knowledge of the contested facts at issue in the habeas petition, or that he had previously made any decision on the questions raised by that petition.  I would accordingly hold that the Due Process Clause did not require Chief Justice Castille’s recusal.

															I

															In 1986, petitioner Terrance Williams stood trial for the murder of Amos Norwood.  Prosecutors believed that Williams and his friend Marc Draper had asked Norwood for a ride, directed him to a cemetery, and then beat him to death with a tire iron after robbing him.  Andrea Foulkes, the Philadelphia Assistant District Attorney prosecut-ing the case, prepared a one-and-a-half page memo for her superiors—Homicide Unit Chief Mark Gottlieb and District Attorney Ronald Castille—“request[ing] that we actively seek the death penalty.”  App. 424a.  The memo briefly described the facts of the case and Williams’s prior felonies, including a previous murder conviction.  Gottlieb read the memo and then passed it to Castille with a note recommending the death penalty.  Id., at 426a.  Castille wrote at the bottom of the memo, “Approved to proceed on the death penalty,” and signed his name.  Ibid.

															At trial, Williams testified that he had never met Norwood and that someone else must have murdered him.  After hearing extensive evidence linking Williams to the crime, the jury convicted him of murder and sentenced him to death.  524 Pa. 218, 227, 570 A. 2d 75, 79–80 (1990).

															In 1995, Williams filed a habeas petition in Pennsylvania state court, alleging that his trial counsel had been ineffective for failing to present mitigating evidence of his childhood sexual abuse, among other claims.  At a hearing related to that petition, Williams acknowledged that he knew Norwood and claimed that Norwood had sexually abused him.  ___ Pa. ___, ___, 105 A. 3d 1234, 1240 (2014).  The petition was denied.  Williams filed two more state habeas petitions, which were both dismissed as untimely, and a federal habeas petition, which was also denied.  See Williams v. Beard, 637 F. 3d 195, 238 (CA3 2011).

															This case arises out of Williams’s fifth habeas petition, which he filed in state court in 2012.  In that petition, Williams argued that he was entitled to a new sentencing proceeding because the prosecution at trial had failed to turn over certain evidence suggesting that “Norwood was sexually involved with boys around [Williams’s] age at the time of his murder.”  Crim. No. CP–51–CR–0823621–1984 (Phila. Ct. Common Pleas, Nov. 27, 2012), App. 80a.

															It is undisputed that Williams’s fifth habeas petition is untimely under Pennsylvania law.  In order to overcome that time bar, Pennsylvania law required Williams to show that “(1) the failure to previously raise [his] claim was the result of interference by government officials and (2) the information on which he relies could not have been obtained earlier with the exercise of due diligence.”  ___ Pa., at ___, 105 A. 3d, at 1240.  The state habeas court held that Williams met that burden because “the government withheld multiple statements from [Williams’s] trial counsel, all of which strengthened the inference that Amos Norwood was sexually inappropriate with a number of teenage boys,” and Williams was unable to access those statements until an evidentiary proceeding ordered by the court.  App. 95a.

															The Commonwealth appealed to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, and Williams filed a motion requesting that Chief Justice Castille recuse himself on the ground that he had “personally authorized his Office to seek the death penalty” nearly 30 years earlier.  Id., at 181a (emphasis deleted).  Chief Justice Castille summarily denied the recusal motion, and the six-member Pennsylvania Supreme Court proceeded to hear the case.  The court unanimously reinstated Williams’s sentence.

															According to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, Williams failed to make the threshold showing necessary to overcome the time bar because there was “abundant evidence” that Williams “knew of Norwood’s homosexuality and conduct with teenage boys well before trial, sufficient to present [Norwood] as unsympathetic before the jury.”  ___ Pa., at ___, 105 A. 3d, at 1241.  The court pointed out that Williams was, of course, personally aware of Norwood’s abuse and could have raised the issue at trial, but instead chose to disclaim having ever met Norwood.  The court also noted that Williams had raised similar claims of abuse in his first state habeas proceeding.  Ibid.  Chief Justice Castille concurred separately, criticizing the lower court for failing to dismiss Williams’s petition as “time-barred and frivolous.”  Id., at ___, 105 A. 3d, at 1245.

															II

															A

															In the context of a criminal proceeding, the Due Process Clause requires States to adopt those practices that are fundamental to principles of liberty and justice, and which inhere “in the very idea of free government” and are “the inalienable right of a citizen of such a government.”  Twining v. New Jersey,

211 U. S. 78,
106 (1908)
.  A fair trial and appeal is one such right.  See Lisenba v. California,

314 U. S. 219,
236 (1941)
; Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Lavoie,

475 U. S. 813,
825 (1986)
.  In ensuring that right, “it is normally within the power of the State to regulate procedures under which its laws are carried out,” unless a procedure “offends some principle of justice so rooted in the traditions and conscience of our people as to be ranked as fundamental.”  Id., at 821 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															It is clear that a judge with “a direct, personal, substantial, pecuniary interest” in a case may not preside over that case.  Tumey v. Ohio,

273 U. S. 510,
523 (1927)
.  We have also held that a judge may not oversee a criminal contempt proceeding where the judge has previously served as grand juror in the same case, or where the party charged with contempt has conducted “an insulting attack upon the integrity of the judge carrying such potential for bias as to require disqualification.”  Mayberry v. Pennsylvania,

400 U. S. 455
–466 (1971) (internal quotation marks omitted); see Murchison, 349 U. S., at 139.

															Prior to this Court’s decision in Caperton v. A. T. Massey Coal Co.,

556 U. S. 868 (2009)
, we had declined to require judicial recusal under the Due Process Clause beyond those defined situations.  In Caperton, however, the Court adopted a new standard that requires recusal “when the probability of actual bias on the part of the judge or decisionmaker is too high to be constitutionally tolerable.”  Id., at 872 (internal quotation marks omitted).  The Court framed the inquiry as “whether, under a realistic appraisal of psychological tendencies and human weakness, the interest poses such a risk of actual bias or prejudgment that the practice must be forbidden if the guarantee of due process is to be adequately implemented.”  Id., at 883–884 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															B

															According to the majority, the Due Process Clause required Chief Justice Castille’s recusal because he had “significant, personal involvement in a critical trial decision” in Williams’s case.  Ante, at 9.  Otherwise, the majority explains, there is “an unacceptable risk of actual bias.”  Ante, at 11.  In the majority’s view, “[t]his conclusion follows from the Court’s analysis in In re Murchison.”  Ante, at 6.  But Murchison does not support the majority’s new rule—far from it.

															Murchison involved a peculiar Michigan law that authorized the same person to sit as both judge and “one-man grand jury” in the same case.  349 U. S., at 133 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Pursuant to that law, a Michigan judge—serving as grand jury—heard testimony from two witnesses in a corruption case.  The testimony “persuaded” the judge that one of the witnesses “had committed perjury”; the second witness refused to answer questions.  Id., at 134–135.  The judge accordingly charged the witnesses with criminal contempt, presided over the trial, and convicted them.  Ibid.  We reversed, holding that the trial had violated the Due Process Clause.  Id., at 139.

															The Court today, acknowledging that Murchison “differ[s] in many respects from a case like this one,” ante, at 7, earns full marks for understatement.  The Court in fact fails to recognize the differences that are critical.

															First, Murchison found a due process violation because the judge (sitting as grand jury) accused the witnesses of contempt, and then (sitting as judge) presided over their trial on that charge.  As a result, the judge had made up his mind about the only issue in the case before the trial had even begun.  We held that such prejudgment violated the Due Process Clause.  349 U. S., at 137.

															Second, Murchison expressed concern that the judge’s recollection of the testimony he had heard as grand juror was “likely to weigh far more heavily with him than any testimony given” at trial.  Id., at 138.  For that reason, the Court found that the judge was at risk of calling “on his own personal knowledge and impression of what had occurred in the grand jury room,” rather than the evidence presented to him by the parties.  Ibid.

															Neither of those due process concerns is present here.  Chief Justice Castille was involved in the decision to seek the death penalty, and perhaps it would be reasonable under Murchison to require him to recuse himself from any challenge casting doubt on that recommendation.  But that is not this case.

															This case is about whether Williams may overcome the procedural bar on filing an untimely habeas petition, which required him to show that the government interfered with his ability to raise his habeas claim, and that “the information on which he relies could not have been obtained earlier with the exercise of due diligence.”  ___ Pa., at ___, 105 A. 3d, at 1240.  Even if Williams were to overcome the timeliness bar, moreover, the only claim he sought to raise on the merits was that the prosecution had failed to turn over certain evidence at trial.  The problem in Murchison was that the judge, having been “part of the accusatory process” regarding the guilt or innocence of the defendants, could not then be “wholly disinterested” when called upon to decide that very same issue.  349 U. S., at 137.  In this case, in contrast, neither the procedural question nor Williams’s merits claim in any way concerns the pretrial decision to seek the death penalty.

															It is abundantly clear that, unlike in Murchison, Chief Justice Castille had not made up his mind about either the contested evidence or the legal issues under review in Williams’s fifth habeas petition.  How could he have?  Neither the contested evidence nor the legal issues were ever before him as prosecutor.  The one-and-a-half page memo prepared by Assistant District Attorney Foulkes in 1986 did not discuss the evidence that Williams claims was withheld by the prosecution at trial.  It also did not discuss Williams’s allegation that Norwood sexually abused young men.  It certainly did not discuss whether Williams could have obtained that evidence of abuse ear-lier through the exercise of due diligence.

															Williams does not assert that Chief Justice Castille had any prior knowledge of the alleged failure of the prosecution to turn over such evidence, and he does not argue that Chief Justice Castille had previously made any decision with respect to that evidence in his role as prosecutor.  Even assuming that Chief Justice Castille remembered the contents of the memo almost 30 years later—which is doubtful—the memo could not have given Chief Justice Castille any special “impression” of facts or issues not raised in that memo.  Id., at 138.

															The majority attempts to justify its rule based on the “risk” that a judge “would be so psychologically wedded to his or her previous position as a prosecutor that the judge would consciously or unconsciously avoid the appearance of having erred or changed position.”  Ante, at 7 (internal quotation marks omitted).  But as a matter of simple logic, nothing about how Chief Justice Castille might rule on Williams’s fifth habeas petition would suggest that the judge had erred or changed his position on the distinct question whether to seek the death penalty prior to trial.  In sum, there was not such an “objective risk of actual bias,” ante, at 13, that it was fundamentally unfair for Chief Justice Castille to participate in the decision of an issue having nothing to do with his prior participation in the case.

															*  *  *

															The Due Process Clause did not prohibit Chief Justice Castille from hearing Williams’s case.  That does not mean, however, that it was appropriate for him to do so.  Williams cites a number of state court decisions and ethics opinions that prohibit a prosecutor from later serving as judge in a case that he has prosecuted.  Because the Due Process Clause does not mandate recusal in cases such as this, it is up to state authorities—not this Court—to determine whether recusal should be required.

															I would affirm the judgment of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, and respectfully dissent from the Court’s contrary conclusion.
													
