::SCDB_caseID:: 2016-027
::decision_cite:: 15-797
::decision_name::  Moore v. Texas
::decision_year:: 2017
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 15–797

															_________________

															BOBBY JAMES MOORE, PETITIONER v.
TEXAS

															on writ of certiorari to the court of criminal
appeals of texas

															[March 28, 2017]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice
Thomas and Justice Alito join, dissenting.

															The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals (CCA)
concluded that Bobby James Moore was not intellectually disabled so
as to be exempt from the death penalty under Atkins v.
Virginia, 536 U. S. 304 (2002) . It reached that
conclusion based on its findings that he had failed to establish
either significantly subaverage intellectual functioning or related
significant deficits in adaptive behavior. The latter conclusion
was based, in part, on the CCA’s analysis of a set of seven
“evidentiary factors” from Ex parte
Briseno, 135 S. W. 3d 1, 8 (Tex. Crim. App. 2004).
I agree with the Court today that those factors are an unacceptable
method of enforcing the guarantee of Atkins, and that the
CCA therefore erred in using them to analyze adaptive deficits. But
I do not agree that the CCA erred as to Moore’s intellectual
functioning. Because the CCA’s determination on that ground
is an independent basis for its judgment, I would affirm the
decision below.

															My broader concern with today’s opinion,
however, is that it abandons the usual mode of analysis this Court
has employed in Eighth Amendment cases. The Court overturns the
CCA’s conclusion that Moore failed to present sufficient
evidence of both inadequate intellectual functioning and
significant deficits in adaptive behavior without even considering
“objective indicia of society’s standards”
reflected in the practices among the States. Hall v.
Florida, 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 12)
(quoting Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. 551, 563
(2005) ). The Court instead crafts a constitutional holding based
solely on what it deems to be medical consensus about intellectual
disability. But clinicians, not judges, should determine clinical
standards; and judges, not clinicians, should determine the content
of the Eighth Amendment. Today’s opinion confuses those
roles, and I respectfully dissent.

															I

															On April 25, 1980, Moore and two others were
throwing dice when they decided to commit a robbery to obtain money
for car payments. Moore provided the group with two firearms, and
the three men began to drive around Houston looking for a target.
Eventually they settled on the Birdsall Super Market. After
negotiating their respective shares of the money they intended to
steal and donning disguises, the three went inside, heading
straight to a courtesy booth staffed by James McCarble and Edna
Scott. When Scott realized a robbery was occurring and screamed,
Moore shot McCarble in the head, killing the 70-year-old
instantly.

															Moore fled Houston and remained on the run until
his arrest in Louisiana ten days after the murder. After giving a
written statement admitting his participation in the robbery and
killing, Moore was charged with capital murder. A jury convicted
him and sentenced him to death.

															Over the next three decades, Moore’s case
traversed the state and federal court systems, finally reaching the
Atkins hearing at issue today in 2014. The state habeas
court conducted a two-day evidentiary hearing, during which it
heard testimony from family members, a fellow inmate, a prison
official, and four mental health professionals. The court concluded
that Moore had shown intellectual disability and recommended that
he be granted relief.

															But it was just that: a recommendation. Under
Texas law, the CCA, not the habeas court, is the ultimate
factfinder in habeas corpus proceedings. Ex parte Reed,
271 S. W. 3d 698, 727 (Tex. Crim. App. 2008); see also
Ex parte Moore, 470 S. W. 3d 481, 489 (Tex.
Crim. App. 2015). Assuming that role, the CCA declined to adopt the
habeas court’s findings and conclusions, instead conducting
its own review of the record to determine whether Moore had shown
he was intellectually disabled.

															The CCA began by considering the appropriate
legal standard for assessing intellectual disability. Following our
instruction to the States to “develop[ ] appropriate
ways to enforce” Atkins, 536 U. S., at 317
(internal quotation marks omitted), the CCA had set out a legal
definition for intellectual disability in its prior decision in
Ex parte Briseno. Rather than follow that test, the habeas
court below crafted its own standards for intellectual disability.
But “[t]he decision to modify the legal standard for
intellectual disability in the capital-sentencing context,”
the CCA explained, “rests with this Court unless and until
the Legislature acts.” 470 S. W. 3d, at 487. Just
as we have corrected lower courts for taking it upon themselves to
dismiss our precedent as outdated, see, e.g., Bosse
v. Okla-homa, 580 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (per
curiam) (slip op., at2), so too the CCA rebuked the habeas
court for ignoring binding CCA precedent.

															The CCA went on to explain why there was no
reason to modify the legal standard it had previously set out.
Briseno had stated a rule that in order for an Atkins
claimant to demonstrate intellectual disability he must show (1)
significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning and (2)
related limitations in adaptive functioning, (3) which had appeared
prior to age 18. See 470 S. W. 3d, at 486. It also laid
out a set of seven evidentiary factors—the
“Briseno factors”—designed to assist
“factfinders . . . in weighing evidence” of
intellectual disability. Briseno, 135 S. W. 3d, at
8.

															The three-prong definition of intellectual
disability came directly from the ninth edition of the manual
published by what is now the American Association on Intellectual
and Developmental Disabilities (AAIDD). Id., at 7; see
American Association on Mental Retardation, Mental Retardation:
Definition, Classification, and Systems of Supports 5 (9th ed.
1992). By the time Moore’s case reached the CCA, the AAIDD no
longer included the requirement that adaptive deficits be
“related” to intellectual functioning. But, as the CCA
noted, the most recent version of the other leading diagnostic
manual, the DSM–5, did include that requirement. 470
S. W. 3d, at 487, n. 5; American Psychiatric
Association, Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
38 (5th ed. 2013) (hereinafter DSM–5). So the CCA was faced
with a choice in Moore: Keeping the relatedness requirement
would be inconsistent with the AAIDD’s current guidance;
dropping it would be out of step with the newest version of the
DSM. The CCA concluded that “the legal test we established in
Briseno remains adequately ‘informed by the medical
community’s diagnostic framework,’ ” and
went on to evaluate the case under that approach. 470
S. W. 3d, at 487 (quoting Hall, 572 U. S., at
___–___ (slip op., at 19–20)).

															Starting with intellectual functioning, the CCA
conducted a painstaking analysis of the battery of tests Moore had
taken over the past 40 years. The CCA concluded that five of the
tests the habeas court had considered were unreli-able: two of them
were neuropsychological tests rather than formal IQ measures; two
were group-administered tests, which Moore’s own experts had
criticized, App. 12 (Otis-Lennon Mental Abilities Test “not
accepted as an instrument appropriate for the assessment of mental
retardation or intellectual deficiency”); id., at
115–116 (Slosson is “not the greatest test” and
“not the most reliable approach”); and the
administrator of the fifth test concluded it was “not
. . . a valid score” because of evidence of
suboptimal effort, id., at 203.

															That left two scores for the CCA to analyze: a
78 and a 74. Significantly subaverage intellectual functioning is
“generally shown by an [IQ] of 70 or less.” 470
S. W. 3d, at 486. “Taking into account the standard
error of measurement” for the 78 score yielded a range of 73
to 83—i.e., a range that did not include an IQ of 70
or less. Id., at 519. As for the 74, the CCA again
considered the standard error of measurement, which yielded a score
range of 69 to 79. The lower end of that range placed Moore within
the parameters for significantly subaverage intellectual
functioning. The CCA found, however, that Moore’s score was
unlikely to be in the lower end of the error-generated range
because he was likely exerting poor effort and experiencing
depression at the time the test was administered—both factors
that Moore’s experts agreed could artificially deflate IQ
scores. Id., at 516–517, 519; App. 46, 92. The CCA
accordingly concluded that Moore had failed to present sufficient
evidence of significantly subaverage intellectual functioning.

															Having failed one part of the CCA’s
three-part test, Moore could not be found intellectually disabled.
The CCA nonetheless went on to consider the second prong of the
test, Moore’s adaptive deficits. Moore had taken a
standardized test of adaptive functioning in which he scored more
than two standard deviations below the mean. But Dr. Kristi
Compton, the state expert who had administered that test, explained
that it was not an accurate measure of Moore’s abilities. She
reached this conclusion not because of Moore’s adaptive
strengths but instead because “she had to assign zeroes to
questions asking about areas to which [Moore] had no exposure, such
as writing a check and using a microwave oven.” 470
S. W. 3d, at 522. Dr. Compton further opined that her
evaluation of Moore and review of documentary
evidence—including school, trial, and prison
records—did not show adaptive deficits sufficient for an
intellectual disability diagnosis. App. 185; see 470 S. W. 3d,
at 521–524.

															The CCA also considered and recounted the
testimony of the other experts who, unlike Dr. Compton, concluded
that Moore had shown significant adaptive deficits. As factfinders
often do in confronting conflicting evidence, the CCA made a
credibility determination. The opinion of Dr. Compton, the CCA
concluded, was “far more credible and reliable” than
those of Moore’s experts, given Dr. Compton’s
“considerable experience,” “thorough[ ] and
rigorous[ ] review[ ] [of] a great deal of
material,” and personal evaluation of Moore. Id., at
524. Based on Dr. Compton’s expert opinion, the CCA concluded
Moore had failed to demonstrate significant adaptive deficits.

															Finally, the CCA considered whether, even
assuming that Moore had made sufficient showings as to intellectual
functioning and adaptive deficits, those two were related. Again
finding Dr. Compton’s testimony the most credible, the CCA
concluded that “the record overwhelmingly supports the
conclusion” that Moore’s observed academic and social
difficulties stemmed, not from low intellectual abilities, but
instead from outside factors like the traumaand abuse he suffered
as a child and his drug use at a young age. Id., at 526. The
CCA explained that, in addition to Dr. Compton’s expert
testimony, considerationof the seven Briseno factors
reinforced that relatedness conclusion.

															Given that Moore had failed to present
sufficient evidence on intellectual functioning or related adaptive
deficits, the CCA “conclude[d] that for Eighth Amendment
purposes,” Moore had not shown he was intellectually
disabled. 470 S. W. 3d, at 527. Accordingly, he was not
exempt from execution under Atkins.

															II

															A

															This Court’s precedents have emphasized
the importance of state legislative judgments in giving content to
the Eighth Amendment ban on cruel and unusual punishment. “
Eighth Amendment judgments should not be . . . merely the
subjective views of individual Justices.” Coker v.
Georgia, 433 U. S. 584, 592 (1977) (plurality opinion).
For that reason, we have emphasized that “judgment should be
informed by objective factors to the maximum possible
extent.” Ibid. The “clearest and most reliable
objective evidence of contemporary values” comes from state
legislative judgments. Atkins, 536 U. S., at 312
(internal quotation marks omitted). Such legislative judgments are
critical because in “a democratic society legislatures, not
courts, are constituted to respond to the will and consequently the
moral values of the people.” Gregg v. Georgia,
428 U. S. 153, 175 (1976) (joint opinion of Stewart, Powell,
and Stevens, JJ.) (internal quotation marks omitted). And we have
focused on state enactments in this realm because of the
“deference we owe to the decisions of the state legislatures
under our federal system . . . where the
specification of punishments is concerned.” Id., at
176. For these reasons, we have described state legislative
judgments as providing “essential instruction” in
conducting the Eighth Amendment inquiry. Roper, 543
U. S., at 564.

															Our decisions addressing capital punishment for
the intellectually disabled recognize the central significance of
state consensus. In holding that the Eighth Amendment prohibits the
execution of intellectually disabled individuals in Atkins,
the Court first identified a national consensus against the
practice and then, applying our own “independent evaluation
of the issue,” concluded that there was “no reason to
disagree” with that consensus. 536 U. S., at 321. The
scope of our holding—guided as it was by the national
consensus—swept only as far as that consensus. We recognized
that there remained the potential for “serious disagreement
. . . in determining which offenders are in fact
retarded.” Id., at 317. And we did not seek to provide
“definitive procedural or substantive guides for determining
when a person who claims mental retardation will be so impaired as
to fall within Atkins’ compass.” Bobby v.
Bies, 556 U. S. 825, 831 (2009) (alterations and
internal quotation marks omitted). Instead, we left “to the
States the task of developing appropriate ways to enforce the
constitutional restriction upon their execution ofsentences.”
Atkins, 536 U. S., at 317 (quoting Ford v.
Wainwright, 477 U. S. 399 –417 (1986);
alterations omitted).

															Twelve years after Atkins, the Court
confronted one State’s attempt to enforce the holding of that
case. Hall v. Florida considered Florida’s rule
requiring a prisoner to present an IQ score of 70 or below to make
out an Atkins claim. Although the Court thought it
“proper to consider the psychiatric and professional studies
that elaborate on the purpose and meaning of IQ scores,” it
emphasized that “[t]he legal determination of intellectual
disability is distinct from a medical diagnosis.” 572
U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 7, 19). It was “the
Court’s duty”—not that of medical
experts—“to interpret the Constitution.”
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 19). The Court’s conclusion
that Florida’s rule was “in direct opposition to the
views of those who design, administer, and interpret the IQ
test” was not enough to decide the case. Id., at ___
(slip op., at 22). Instead, consistent with our settled approach,
the Court canvassed “the legislative policies of various
States,” as well as “the holdings of state
courts,” because it was state policies that provided
“essential instruction” for determining the scope of
the constitutional guarantee. Id., at ___, ___ (slip op., at
7, 19) (quoting Roper, 543 U. S., at 564). State
policy, the Court concluded, indicated a “consensus that our
society does not regard [Florida’s rule] as proper or
humane,” and that “consensus . . .
instruct[ed us] how to decide the specific issue presented.”
572 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 7, 16). The Court was
sharply divided on that conclusion, see id., at
___–___ (slip op., at 4–7) (Alito, J., dissenting), but
not on the fact that our precedent mandated such an inquiry.

															B

															Today’s decision departs from this
Court’s precedents, followed in Atkins and
Hall, establishing that the determination of what is cruel
and unusual rests on a judicial judgment about societal standards
of decency, not a medical assessment of clinical practice. The
Court rejects the CCA’s conclusion that Moore failed to make
the requisite showings with respect to intellectual functioning and
adaptive deficits, without any consideration of the state practices
that were, three Terms ago, “essential” to the Eighth
Amendment question. Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op.,
at 19). The Court instead finds error in the CCA’s analysis
based solely on what the Court views to be departure from typical
clinical practice.

															The clinical guides on which the Court relies
today are “designed to assist clinicians in conducting
clinical assessment, case formulation, and treatment
planning.” DSM–5, at 25. They do not seek to dictate or
describe who is morally culpable—indeed, the DSM–5
cautions its readers about “the imperfect fit between the
questions of ultimate concern to the law and the information
contained” within its pages. Ibid.

															The Eighth Amendment, under our precedent, is
supposed to impose a moral backstop on punishment, prohibiting
sentences that our society deems repugnant. The Court, however,
interprets that constitutional guarantee as turning on clinical
guidelines that do not purport to reflect standards of decency. The
Court’s refusal even to address what we previously
“pinpointed” as “the clearest and most reliable
objective evidence” of such standards—the practices
among the States—goes unexplained by the majority.
Atkins, 536 U. S., at 312 (internal quotation marks
omitted).

															A second problem with the Court’s approach
is the lack of guidance it offers to States seeking to enforce the
holding of Atkins. Recognizing that we have, in the very
recent past, held that “ ‘the views of medical
experts’ do not ‘dictate’ a court’s
intellectual-disability determination,” the Court assures us
that it is not requiring adherence “to everything stated in
the latest medical guide,” ante, at 9–10
(quoting Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19));
States have “some flexibility” but cannot
“disregard” medical standards. Ante, at 10, 17.
Neither the Court’s articulation of this standard nor its
application sheds any light on what it means.

															Start with the Court’s stated principle.
“Disregard” normally means to dismiss as unworthy of
attention, and that is plainly not what the CCA did here. For
example, the Court faults the CCA for placing too much weight on
Moore’s adaptive strengths and functioning in prison,
implying that this marked a dismissal of clinical standards. Yet
the CCA was aware of and, in a prior decision, had addressed the
fact that some clinicians would counsel against considering such
information. See 470 S. W. 3d, at 489 (citing
Ex parte Cathey, 451 S. W. 3d 1, 26–27
(2014)). Both because “[m]ost courts . . . consider
all of the person’s functional abilities” and
because it seemed “foolhardy” to ignore strengths, the
CCA thought it proper to take note of them. Id., at 27. As
to prison conduct, the CCA decided that the fundamental questions
the Atkins inquiry sought to answer were best
considered—and “sound scientific principles” best
served—by taking account of “all possible data
that sheds light on a person’s adaptive functioning,
including his conduct in a prison society.” 451 S. W.
3d, at 26–27. The CCA considered clinical standards and
explained why it decided that departure from those standards was
warranted. The court did not “disregard” medical
standards.

															Nor do the Court’s identified errors
clarify the scope of the “flexibility” we are told
States retain in this area. The Court faults the CCA for
“overemphasiz[ing]” strengths and
“stress[ing]” Moore’s conduct in prison,
ante, at 12–13, suggesting that some—but not
too much—consideration of strengths and prison
functioning is acceptable. The Court’s only guidance on when
“some” becomes “too much”? Citations to
clinical guides. See ibid. But if courts do have
“flexibility” in enforcing the guarantee of
Atkins and need not “adhere[ ]” to these
guides in every instance or particular, ante, at 10, 17,
then clinical texts, standing alone, cannot answer the question of
why the CCA placed too much weight on adaptive strengths and prison
conduct. The line between the permissible—consideration,
maybe even emphasis—and the
forbidden—“overemphasis”—is not only thin,
but totally undefined by today’s decision. It is not at all
clear when a State’s deviation from medical consensus becomes
so great as to “diminish the force” of that consensus,
ante, at 2, and thereby violate the Constitution.

															Finally, the Court’s decision
constitutionalizes rules for which there is not even clinical
consensus—a consequence that will often arise from the
approach charted by the Court today. Consider the Court’s
conclusion that, contrary to “the medical community[’s]
focus[ ] . . . on adaptive deficits,”
“the CCA overemphasized Moore’s perceived adaptive
strengths.” Ante, at 12. In support of this
proposition, the Court cites the AAIDD’s direction that
“significant limitations in conceptual, social, or practical
adaptive skills [are] not outweighed by the potential strengths in
some adaptive skills.” AAIDD, Intellectual Disability:
Definition, Classification, and Systems of Supports 47 (11th ed.
2010) (hereinafter AAIDD–11). Even assuming that all
clinicians would agree with this statement, there are a number of
ways it might be interpreted: as meaning that strengths in one of
the three adaptive skill areas—conceptual, social, and
practical—should not cancel out deficits in another; as
meaning that strengths should not outweigh deficits within the same
skill area; or as meaning that evidence of some ability to perform
a skill should not offset evidence of the inability to perform that
same skill. And it appears that clinicians do, in fact, disagree
about what this direction means. Compare, e.g., Brief for
AAIDD et al. as Amici Curiae 17 (“The
clinician’s diagnostic focus does not—and
cannot—involve any form of ‘balancing’
deficits against the abilities or strengths which the particular
individual may also possess” (emphasis added)) with Hagan,
Drogin, & Guilmette, Assessing Adaptive Functioning in Death
Penalty Cases after Hall and DSM–5, 44 J. Am. Acad.
Psychiatry & L. 96, 98 (2016) (“Any assessment of
adaptive functioning must give sufficient consideration to assets
and deficits alike. . . . [I]n-ventorying only
assets or deficits . . . departs from DSM–5, [the
AAIDD–11], and all other established frameworks”
(footnotes omitted)).

															The same is true about consideration of prison
conduct. The two primary clinical guides do offer caution about
considering functioning in prison. But the stringency of their
caution differs, with the AAIDD seeming to enact a flat ban on ever
looking to functioning in prison and the DSM urging “if
possible” to consider “corroborative information
reflecting functioning outside” of prison. AAIDD,
User’s Guide: Intellectual Disability: Definition,
Classification, and Systems of Supports 20 (11th ed. 2012);
DSM–5, at 38. The CCA followed the DSM–5’s
instruction, relying on Dr. Compton’s conclusion that
“even before [Moore] went to prison” he demonstrated a
“level of adaptive functioning . . . too great
. . . to support an intellectual-disability
diagnosis.” 470 S. W. 3d, at 526. In deter-mining that the
CCA erred in this regard, the Court implicitly rejects the
DSM–5’s approach to the proper consideration of prison
conduct and accepts what it takes to be that of the AAIDD. The
Court does not attempt to explain its justification for why the
Eighth Amendment should favor one side over the other in this
clinical debate.

															“Psychiatry is not . . . an
exact science.” Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U. S.
68, 81 (1985) . “[B]ecause there often is no single, accurate
psychiatric conclusion,” we have emphasized the importance of
allowing the “primary factfinder[ ]” to
“resolve differences in opinion . . . on the basis
of the evidence offered by each party.” Ibid. You
would not know it from reading the Court’s opinion today, but
that is precisely what the CCA—the factfinder under Texas
law—did in the decision below: Confronted with dueling expert
opinions about how to evaluate adaptive functioning and what
conclusion to reach, the CCA resolved the dispute before it by
accepting the testimony of the expert it deemed most credible. Of
course, reliance on an expert opinion does not insulate a decision
from further judicial review. But, unlike the Court, I am unwilling
to upset the considered judgment of the forensic psychologist that
the factfinding court deemed the most credible based on my own
interpretation of a few sentences excised from medical texts.

															III

															As for how I would resolve this case, there is
one aspect of the CCA’s approach to intellectual disability
that is incompatible with the Eighth Amendment: the Briseno
factors. As the Court explains, no state legislature has approved
the use of these or any similar factors. Although the CCA reviewed
these factors to determine whether Moore’s adaptive deficits
were “related” to his intellectual functioning, it may
be that consideration of those factors tainted the whole of the
CCA’s adaptive functioning analysis. I need not decide this
question, however, because the CCA reached the issue of
Moore’s adaptive functioning only after concluding that he
had failed to demonstrate intellectual functioning sufficiently low
to warrant a finding of intellectual disability, regardless of his
adaptive deficits or their relation to his IQ. Moore has not
presented sufficient reason to upset that independent holding.

															The Court concludes that the CCA’s
assessment of Moore’s IQ scores is “irreconcilable with
Hall.” Ante, at 10. Not so. Hall
rejected a Florida rule that required a prisoner to present an IQ
score of 70 or below to demonstrate intellectual disability,
thereby barring consideration of the standard error of measurement
(SEM) of an over-70 score. But the CCA did not apply
Florida’s rule—or anything like it. The court in fact
began by taking account of the SEM, explaining that Moore’s
tested score of 74 led to an IQ range between 69 and 79. The court
went on to consider additional expert testimony about potential
factors affecting that score. Based on that evidence, the CCA
discounted portions of the SEM-generated range and concluded that
Moore’s IQ did not lie in the relevant range for intellectual
disability.

															Hall provided no definitive guidance on
this sort of approach: recognizing the inherent imprecision of IQ
tests, but considering additional evidence to determine whether an
SEM-generated range of scores accurately reflected a
prisoner’s actual IQ.[1]
Indeed, in its catalog of States that “ha[d] taken a position
contrary to that of Florida,” the Court in Hall
included a State that granted trial courts discretion to draw
“reasonable inferences” about IQ scores and, where
appropriate, decline to consider the full range of the SEM. 572
U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 15, 16) (quoting
Pizzuto v. State, 146 Idaho 720, 729, 202 P. 3d
642, 651 (2008)).[2] That is
the approach the CCA took here. If that approach was
“contrary” to Florida’s rule in Hall, I do
not understand how Hall can be read to reject that approach
today.

															The Court’s ruling on intellectual
functioning turns solely on the fact that Moore’s IQ range
was 69 to 79 rather than 70 to 80. See ante, at 11
(“Because the lower end of Moore’s score range falls at
or below 70, the CCA had to move on to consider Moore’s
adaptive functioning”). The CCA certainly did not
“disregard” SEM in assessing Moore’s IQ, and it
explained why other factors led it to conclude that his actual
score did not fall near the lower end of the SEM range. Only by
insisting on the absolute conformity to medical standards the Court
disclaims can it find a violation of the Eighth Amendment based on
that one-point difference.[3]
Ibid. In concluding that the Eighth Amendment turns on the
slightest numerical difference in IQ score, the Court today is just
as wrong as the Florida Supreme Court was in Hall.

															Today’s decision is not compelled by
Hall; it is an expansion of it. Perhaps there are reasons to
expand Hall’s holding—to say that States must
read IQ tests as rigidly encompassing the entire SEM range,
regardless of any other evidentiary considerations, or to say that
the reasons that the CCA gave for discounting the lower end of
Moore’s IQ range were improper. But before holding that the
Constitution demands either result, our precedent requires
consulting state judgments on the matter to determine whether a
national consensus has developed. Moore has presented no argument
as to such a consensus, and the majority does not claim that there
is one. Without looking to any such “objective evidence of
contemporary values,” Atkins, 536 U. S., at 312
(internal quotation marks omitted), there is a real danger that
Eighth Amendment judgments will embody “merely the subjective
views of individual Justices,” Coker, 433 U. S.,
at 592 (plurality opinion). As Justice Frankfurter cautioned,
“[o]ne must be on guard against finding in personal
disapproval a reflection of more or less prevailing
condemnation.” Louisiana ex rel. Francis v.
Resweber, 329 U. S. 459, 471 (1947) (concurring
opinion).

															I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 Hall also reached
no holding as to the evaluation of IQ when an Atkins
claimant presents multiple scores, noting only that “the
analysis of multiple IQ scores jointly is a complicated
endeavor.” Hall v. Flor-ida, 572 U. S.
___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 11). The Court’s definition of
deficient intellectual functioning as shown by “an IQ
score” of roughly 70, ante, at 4 (emphasis added), is
dicta and cannot be read to call into question the approach of
States that would not treat a single IQ score as dispositive
evidence where the prisoner presented additional higher
scores.
2
 The Court correctly notes
that Hall cited Pizzuto as an instance of a State
that had enacted “legislation allowing a defendant to present
additional evidence of intellectual disability even when an IQ test
score is above 70.” Hall, 572 U. S., at ___ (slip
op., at 15). The “additional evidence” that
Pizzuto considered, however, was evidence that would
indicate where within the SEM range a prisoner’s IQ likely
fell, 146 Idaho, at 729, 202 P. 3d, at 651—that is, the
same sort of evidence that the CCA considered below.
3
 It is not obvious that
clinicians would ignore evidence beyond the SEM in determining the
appropriate range that an IQ score represents. See, e.g.,
Macvaugh & Cunningham, Atkins v. Virginia: Implications
and Recommendations for Forensic Practice, 37 J. Psychiatry &
L. 131, 147 (2009) (“Error in intellectual assessment is not
solely a function [of the SEM]. Other sources of error or
assessment imprecision may involve the examinee . . .
includ[ing] the mental and physical health, mood, effort, and
motivation of the examinee during
testing . . . .”); AAIDD–11, at
100–101 (“When considering the relative weight or
degree of confidence given to any assessment instrument, the
clinician needs to consider . . . the conditions under
which the test(s) was/were given [and] the standard error of
measurement”).


