::SCDB_caseID:: 2015-079
::decision_cite:: 15-833
::decision_name::  Kernan v. Hinojas
::decision_year:: 2016
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															SCOTT KERNAN, SECRETARY, CALIFORNIA DE-PARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS AND REHABIL-ITATION v. ANTONIO A. HINOJOSA

															on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															No. 15–833 Decided May 16, 2016

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins, dissenting.

															When faced with a state-court order that denies a ha-beas petition without explanation, this Court has long pre-sumed that the order agrees with the “last reasoned state-court opinion” in the case unless there is “strong evidence” to the contrary.  Ylst v. Nunnemaker,

501 U. S. 797
–805 (1991).  In this case, the parties agree that a California Superior Court denied a petition for improper venue because it was filed in the wrong county.  The California Supreme Court later denied the same petition for no explained reason.  Applying Ylst’s commonsense presumption, it is “most improbable” that the California Supreme Court’s unexplained order disagreed with the Superior Court’s reasoned order.  Id., at 804.  We should therefore presume that the California Supreme Court denied Antonio Hinojosa’s habeas petition because he filed the first one in the wrong county.

															The Court, however, believes there is strong evidence to the contrary—for two inexplicable reasons.  The first reason—the California Supreme Court could not have denied the petition for “improper venue” because there is only one California Supreme Court, ante, at 3—is a straw man, and a poorly constructed one at that.  Obviously the California Supreme Court did not deny Hinojosa’s petition because he filed it in the wrong State Supreme Court.  But it easily could have denied his petition because it agreed with the Superior Court’s conclusion that he filed the first petition in the wrong county.  See In re Steele, 32 Cal. 4th 682, 692, 85 P. 3d 444, 449 (2004).  That possibility becomes even more likely in light of California’s atypical habeas rules, which treat an original habeas petition to the California Supreme Court as the commonplace method for seeking review of a lower court’s order.  See Carey v. Saffold,

536 U. S. 214
–222 (2002).[1]*  By issuing a silent order after reviewing the lower court’s reasoned decision, the California Supreme Court presumably denied Hinojosa’s petition on the same ground.  Cf. Ylst, 501 U. S., at 800 (applying its presumption on an identical posture out of California).

															The majority’s second reason is even flimsier.  The majority suggests that the California Supreme Court’s order did not include the words “without prejudice” and therefore could not have agreed with the Superior Court’s denial—which the majority assumes was without prejudice.  Ante, at 4.  But as the majority quotes, the Superior Court simply “ ‘DENIED’ ” the petition; neither it nor the California Supreme Court “DENIED” it “without prejudice.”  Ante, at 2, 4.  It is mindboggling how one opinion necessarily disagrees with another opinion merely because it omits language that the other opinion also lacks.

															I would hold, as the Ninth Circuit did, that the California Supreme Court presumably agreed with the reasoning of the Superior Court.  See Ylst, 501 U. S., at 804. At the very least, I would not hold that there is such “strong evidence” to the contrary that we should summarily reverse the Ninth Circuit’s interpretation of the California Supreme Court’s order—and, in the process, reverse the Ninth Circuit’s separate conclusion that Hinojosa’s incarceration had been unconstitutionally extended.Notes

1


		* Contrary to the majority’s characterization, Hinojosa did not file his petition “[i]nstead of appealing” the lower court’s denial, ante, at 2—his petition was itself his appeal.  See Carey, 536 U. S., at 225 (calling an original habeas petition and the alternative “petition for hearing” “interchangeable” methods of appeal, “with neither option bringing adverse consequences to the petitioner”).
	


