::SCDB_caseID:: 1877-279
::decision_cite:: 154 U.S. 628 (1878)
::decision_name::  First National Bank of Cincinnati v. Cook
::decision_year:: 1878
::opinion_author:: 
::opinion_type:: 
::opinion:: 

U.S. Supreme CourtFirst National Bank of Cincinnati v. Cook, 154 U.S. 628 (1878)
First National Bank of Cincinnati v. Cook
No. 182
Argued January 28, 1878
Decided February 11, 1878
154 U.S. 628

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO
Syllabus 

															The order of the circuit court in this case directing an assignment to the trustees in bankruptcy of the judgment against the oil company on bills transferred by the bankrupt to the appellant, is affirmed.

															MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the Court.

															All the questions involved in this case were considered and decided at the present term in Merchants' National Bank v. Cook, 95 U. S. 312, and West Philadelphia Bank v. Dickson, 95 U. S. 180, except that which relates to the order of the circuit court directing an assignment to the trustees in bankruptcy of the judgment against the Ohio Lard and Sperm Oil Company upon the bills of that company, transferred by the bankrupt to the appellant with the other securities, and as to this we see no error in the action of the court below.  The transfer of these bills as well as the others was void under the bankrupt law, and the title to them passed to the trustees in bankruptcy when appointed.  The fact that in the hands of the bankrupt or his assignees the bills may not be good against the oil company does not affect this case.  The bills, whether good or bad, belonged to the trustees, who have consequently the right to the judgment into which they have been merged.  Whether the oil company will have the same defenses 
															Page 154 U. S. 629
															 to the judgment in the hands of the trustees that it would have had to the bills before judgment is a question which we need not now decide.  It is certain that the appellant cannot hold the judgment as against the trustees, any more than it could the bills.

															The decree is affirmed.

