::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 16-1436
::decision_name::  Trump. v. International Refugee Assistance Project
::decision_year:: 2017
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 16–1436 (16A1190) and 16–1540 (16A1191)

															_________________

															DONALD J. TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, et al.

															No. 16–1436 (16A1190)v.

															INTERNATIONAL REFUGEE ASSISTANCE

															PROJECT, et al.

															on application for stay and petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															DONALD J. TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, et al.

															No. 16–1540 (16A1191)v.

															HAWAII, et al.

															on application for stay and petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 26, 2017]

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito and Justice Gorsuch join, concurring in part and dissenting in part.

															I agree with the Court that the preliminary injunctions entered in these cases should be stayed, although I would stay them in full.  The decision whether to stay the injunctions is committed to our discretion, ante, at 9–10, but our discretion must be “guided by sound legal principles,” Nken v. Holder,

556 U. S. 418,
434 (2009)
 (internal quotation marks omitted).  The two “most critical” factors we must consider in deciding whether to grant a stay are “(1) whether the stay applicant has made a strong showing that [it] is likely to succeed on the merits” and “(2) whether the applicant will be irreparably injured absent a stay.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).  Where a party seeks a stay pending certiorari, as here, the applicant satisfies the first factor only if it can show both “a reasonable probability that certiorari will be granted” and “a significant possibility that the judgment below will be reversed.”  Barnes v. E-Systems, Inc. Group Hospital Medical & Surgical Ins. Plan,

501 U. S. 1301,
1302 (1991)
 (Scalia, J., in chambers).  When we determine that those critical factors are satisfied, we must “balance the equities” by “explor[ing] the relative harms to applicant and respondent, as well as the interests of the public at large.”  Id., at 1304–1305 (internal quotation marks omitted); cf. Nken, supra, at 435 (noting that the factors of “assessing the harm to the opposing party and weighing the public interest” “merge when the Government is the opposing party”).

															The Government has satisfied the standard for issuing a stay pending certiorari.  We have, of course, decided to grant certiorari.  See ante, at 8–9.  And I agree with the Court’s implicit conclusion that the Government has made a strong showing that it is likely to succeed on the merits—that is, that the judgments below will be reversed.  The Government has also established that failure to stay the injunctions will cause irreparable harm by interfering with its “compelling need to provide for the Nation’s security.”  Ante, at 13.  Finally, weighing the Government’s interest in preserving national security against the hardships caused to respondents by temporary denials of entry into the country, the balance of the equities favors the Government.  I would thus grant the Government’s applications for a stay in their entirety.

															Reasonable minds may disagree on where the balance of equities lies as between the Government and respondents in these cases.  It would have been reasonable, perhaps, for the Court to have left the injunctions in place only as to respondents themselves.  But the Court takes the addi-tional step of keeping the injunctions in place with regard to an unidentified, unnamed group of foreign nationals abroad.  No class has been certified, and neither party asks for the scope of relief that the Court today provides.  “[I]njunctive relief should be no more burdensome to the defendant than necessary to provide complete relief to the plaintiffs” in the case, Califano v. Yamasaki,

442 U. S. 682,
702 (1979)
 (emphasis added), because a court’s role is “to provide relief” only “to claimants . . . who have suffered, or will imminently suffer, actual harm.”  Lewis v. Casey,

518 U. S. 343,
349 (1996)
.  In contrast, it is the role of the “political branches” to “shape the institutions of government in such fashion as to comply with the laws and the Constitution.”  Ibid.

															Moreover, I fear that the Court’s remedy will prove unworkable.  Today’s compromise will burden executive officials with the task of deciding—on peril of contempt—whether individuals from the six affected nations who wish to enter the United States have a sufficient connection to a person or entity in this country.  See ante, at 11–12.  The compromise also will invite a flood of litigation until this case is finally resolved on the merits, as parties and courts struggle to determine what exactly constitutes a “bona fide relationship,” who precisely has a “credible claim” to that relationship, and whether the claimed relationship was formed “simply to avoid §2(c)” of Executive Order No. 13780, ante, at 11, 12.  And litigation of the factual and legal issues that are likely to arise will presumably be directed to the two District Courts whose initial orders in these cases this Court has now—unanimously—found sufficiently questionable to be stayed as to the vast majority of the people potentially affected.
													
