::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-075
::decision_cite:: 16-1027
::decision_name::  Collins v. Virginia
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–1027

															_________________

															RYAN AUSTIN COLLINS, PETITIONER v. VIRGINIA

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of virginia

															[May 29, 2018]

															

															Justice Alito, dissenting.

															The
 
Fourth Amendment prohibits “unreasonable” searches.  What the police did in this case was entirely reasonable.  The Court’s decision is not.

															On the day in question, Officer David Rhodes was standing at the curb of a house where petitioner, Ryan Austin Collins, stayed a couple of nights a week with his girlfriend.  From his vantage point on the street, Rhodes saw an object covered with a tarp in the driveway, just a car’s length or two from the curb.  It is undisputed that Rhodes had probable cause to believe that the object under the tarp was a motorcycle that had been involved a few months earlier in a dangerous highway chase, eluding the police at speeds in excess of 140 mph.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 22; App. to Pet. for Cert. 67.  Rhodes also had probable cause to believe that petitioner had been operating the motorcycle[1] and that a search of the motorcycle would provide evidence that the motorcycle had been stolen.[2]

															If the motorcycle had been parked at the curb, instead of in the driveway, it is undisputed that Rhodes could have searched it without obtaining a warrant.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 9; Reply Brief 1.  Nearly a century ago, this Court held that officers with probable cause may search a motor vehicle without obtaining a warrant.  Carroll v. United States,

267 U. S. 132, 153, 155–156 (1925).  The principal rationale for this so-called automobile or motor-vehicle exception to the warrant requirement is the risk that the vehicle will be moved during the time it takes to obtain a warrant.  Id., at 153; California v. Carney,

471 U. S. 386, 390–391 (1985).  We have also observed that the owner of an automobile has a diminished expectation of privacy in its contents.  Id., at 391–393.

															So why does the Court come to the conclusion that Officer Rhodes needed a warrant in this case?  Because, in order to reach the motorcycle, he had to walk 30 feet or so up the driveway of the house rented by petitioner’s girlfriend, and by doing that, Rhodes invaded the home’s “curtilage.”  Ante, at 6–7.  The Court does not dispute that the motorcycle, when parked in the driveway, was just as mobile as it would have been had it been parked at the curb.  Nor does the Court claim that Officer Rhodes’s short walk up the driveway did petitioner or his girlfriend any harm.  Rhodes did not damage any property or observe anything along the way that he could not have seen from the street.  But, the Court insists, Rhodes could not enter the driveway without a warrant, and therefore his search of the motorcycle was unreasonable and the evidence obtained in that search must be suppressed.

															An ordinary person of common sense would react to the Court’s decision the way Mr. Bumble famously responded when told about a legal rule that did not comport with the reality of everyday life.  If that is the law, he exclaimed, “the law is a ass—a idiot.”  C. Dickens, Oliver Twist 277 (1867).

															The
 
Fourth Amendment is neither an “ass” nor an “idiot.”  Its hallmark is reasonableness, and the Court’s strikingly unreasonable decision is based on a misunderstanding of
 
Fourth Amendment basics.

															The
 
Fourth Amendment protects “[t]he right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects.”  A “house,” for
 
Fourth Amendment purposes, is not limited to the structure in which a person lives, but by the same token, it also does not include all the real property surrounding a dwelling.  See, e.g., Florida v. Jardines,

569 U. S. 1, 6 (2013); United States v. Dunn,

480 U. S. 294, 300–301 (1987).  Instead, a person’s “house” encompasses the dwelling and a circumscribed area of surrounding land that is given the name “curtilage.”  Oliver v. United States,

466 U. S. 170, 180 (1984).  Land outside the curtilage is called an “open field,” and a search conducted in that area is not considered a search of a “house” and is therefore not governed by the
 
Fourth Amendment.  Ibid.  Ascertaining the boundaries of the curtilage thus determines only whether a search is governed by the
 
Fourth Amendment.  The concept plays no other role in
 
Fourth Amendment analysis.

															In this case, there is no dispute that the search of the motorcycle was governed by the
 
Fourth Amendment, and therefore whether or not it occurred within the curtilage is not of any direct importance.  The question before us is not whether there was a
 
Fourth Amendment search but whether the search was reasonable.  And the only possible argument as to why it might not be reasonable concerns the need for a warrant.  For nearly a century, however, it has been well established that officers do not need a warrant to search a motor vehicle on public streets so long as they have probable cause.  Carroll, supra, at 153, 156; see also, e.g., Pennsylvania v. Labron,

518 U. S. 938, 940 (1996) (per curiam); Carney, supra, at 394; South Dakota v. Opperman,

428 U. S. 364, 367–368 (1976); Chambers v. Maroney,

399 U. S. 42, 50–51 (1970).  Thus, the issue here is whether there is any good reason why this same rule should not apply when the vehicle is parked in plain view in a driveway just a few feet from the street.

															In considering that question, we should ask whether the reasons for the “automobile exception” are any less valid in this new situation.  Is the vehicle parked in the driveway any less mobile?  Are any greater privacy interests at stake?  If the answer to those questions is “no,” then the automobile exception should apply.  And here, the answer to each question is emphatically “no.”  The tarp-covered motorcycle parked in the driveway could have been uncovered and ridden away in a matter of seconds.  And Officer Rhodes’s brief walk up the driveway impaired no real privacy interests.

															In this case, the Court uses the curtilage concept in a way that is contrary to our decisions regarding other, exigency-based exceptions to the warrant requirement.  Take, for example, the “emergency aid” exception.  See Brigham City v. Stuart,

547 U. S. 398 (2006).  When officers reasonably believe that a person inside a dwelling has urgent need of assistance, they may cross the curtilage and enter the building without first obtaining a warrant.  Id., at 403–404.  The same is true when officers reasonably believe that a person in a dwelling is destroying evidence.  See Kentucky v. King,

563 U. S. 452, 460 (2011).  In both of those situations, we ask whether “ ‘the exigencies of the situation’ make the needs of law enforcement so compelling that the warrantless search is objectively reasonable.”  Brigham City, supra, at 403 (quoting Mincey v. Arizona,

437 U. S. 385, 394 (1978)).  We have not held that the need to cross the curtilage independently necessitates a warrant, and there is no good reason to apply a different rule here.[3]

															It is no answer to this argument that the emergency-aid and destruction-of-evidence exceptions require an inquiry into the practicality of obtaining a warrant in the particular circumstances of the case.  Our precedents firmly establish that the motor-vehicle exception, unlike these other exceptions, “has no separate exigency requirement.”  Maryland v. Dyson,

527 U. S. 465, 466–467 (1999) (per curiam).  It is settled that the mobility of a motor vehicle categorically obviates any need to engage in such a case-specific inquiry.  Requiring such an inquiry here would mark a substantial alteration of settled
 
Fourth Amendment law.

															This does not mean, however, that a warrant is never needed when officers have probable cause to search a motor vehicle, no matter where the vehicle is located.  While a case-specific inquiry regarding exigency would be inconsistent with the rationale of the motor-vehicle exception, a case-specific inquiry regarding the degree of intrusion on privacy is entirely appropriate when the motor vehicle to be searched is located on private property.  After all, the ultimate inquiry under the
 
Fourth Amendment is whether a search is reasonable, and that inquiry often turns on the degree of the intrusion on privacy.  Thus, contrary to the opinion of the Court, an affirmance in this case would not mean that officers could perform a warrantless search if a motorcycle were located inside a house.  See ante, at 7.  In that situation, the intrusion on privacy would be far greater than in the present case, where the real effect, if any, is negligible.

															I would affirm the decision below and therefore respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 Petitioner had a photo on his Facebook profile of a motorcycle that resembled the unusual motorcycle involved in the prior highway chase.  See ante, at 1–2 (majority opinion). 

2
 Rhodes suspected the motorcycle was stolen based on a conversation he had with the man who had sold the motorcycle to petitioner.  See App. 57–58. 

3
 Indeed, I believe that the First Congress implicitly made the same judgment in enacting the statute on which Carroll v. United States,

267 U. S. 132 (1925), relied when the motor-vehicle exception was first recognized.  Since the First Congress sent the Bill of Rights to the States for ratification, we have often looked to laws enacted by that Congress as evidence of the original understanding of the meaning of those Amendments.  See, e.g., id., at 150–151; Town of Greece v. Galloway, 572 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2014) (slip op., at 7–8); United States v. Villamonte-Marquez,

462 U. S. 579, 585–586 (1983); United States v. Ramsey,

431 U. S. 606, 616–617 (1977).  Carroll itself noted that the First Congress enacted a law authorizing officers to search vessels without a warrant.  267 U. S., at 150–151.  Although this statute did not expressly state that these officers could cross private property such as wharves in order to reach and board those vessels, I think that was implicit.  Otherwise, the statute would very often have been ineffective.  And when Congress later enacted similar laws, it made this authorization express.  See, e.g., An Act Further to Prevent Smuggling and for Other Purposes, §5,

14Stat.
179.  For this reason, Officer Rhodes’s conduct in this case is consistent with the original understanding of the
 
Fourth Amendment, as explicated in Carroll. 


