::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-017
::decision_cite:: 16-1275
::decision_name::  Virginia Uranium, Inc. v. Warren
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–1275

															_________________

															VIRGINIA URANIUM, INC., et al., PETITIONERS v. JOHN WARREN, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															[June 17, 2019]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Alito join, dissenting.

															Although one party will be happy with the result of today’s decision, both will be puzzled by its reasoning.  That’s because the lead opinion sets out to defeat an argument that no one made, reaching a conclusion with which no one disagrees.  Specifically, the opinion devotes its analysis to whether the field of uranium mining safety is preempted under the Atomic Energy Act, ultimately concluding that it is not.  But no party disputes that.  Rather, the question we agreed to address is whether a State can purport to regulate a field that is not preempted (uranium mining safety) as an indirect means of regulating other fields that are preempted (safety concerns about uranium milling and tailings).  And on that question, our precedent is clear: The AEA prohibits state laws that have the purpose and effect of regulating preempted fields.

															As relevant here, processing uranium ore involves three steps: mining, milling, and storing “tailings.”  Mining is the extracting of uranium ore from the ground; milling is the process of turning the substance into a usable form; and tailings are the leftover radioactive waste that must be safely stored.

															There is no dispute over which of these fields the AEA reserves to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  The parties agree that the field of uranium mining safety is not preempted.  See Brief for Petitioners 3, 22, n. 4, 27; Reply Brief 8; Brief for Respondents 1; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 4, 14.  And it is undisputed that radiological safety concerns about milling and tailings are preempted fields.  See Brief for Petitioners 32; Tr. of Oral Arg. 36–37 (counsel for respondents); Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 23.  Indeed, that shared understanding was the basis of the question presented.[1]

															Despite all this, the lead opinion insists that petitioners (hereafter the company) press an entirely different argument.  “Before us, Virginia Uranium contends that the AEA (and only the AEA) unseats state uranium mining regulations,” ante, at 3, but “almost immediately problems emerge,” ante, at 4.  Problems do immediately emerge in the opinion, but they are of its own making.  The company does not argue that the AEA reserves the field of uranium mining safety.  After attributing this failing argument to the company, the lead opinion then proceeds to explain why the argument must, in fact, fail.  See ante, at 3–10.

															Turning to the question presented, however, the company’s theory of the case is fairly straightforward.  The property at issue here contains the largest known uranium deposit in the country and one of the largest in the world.[2]  Shortly after its discovery, Virginia enacted a complete ban on uranium mining.  According to the company, the ban was not motivated by concerns about mining safety.  Instead, it was motivated by Virginia’s desire to ban the more hazardous steps that come after mining—uranium milling and the storage of radioactive tailings—due to the Commonwealth’s disagreement with the NRC over how to safely regulate those activities.  And, crucially, Virginia has yet to put forward any other rationale to support the ban.[3]  Thus, the question before us is whether, consistent with the AEA and our precedents, the Commonwealth may purport to regulate a non-preempted field (mining safety) with the purpose and effect of indirectly regulating a preempted field (milling and tailings).  That should have made for an easy case.

															Under our AEA precedents, a state law is preempted not only when it “conflicts with federal law,” but also when its purpose is to regulate within a preempted field.  Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. State Energy Resources Conservation and Development Comm’n,

461 U.S. 190, 212–213 (1983).  Because “the Federal Government has occupied the entire field of nuclear safety concerns,” a state law that is “grounded in [such] safety concerns falls squarely within the prohibited field.”  Ibid.; see also English v. General Elec. Co.,

496 U.S. 72, 84 (1990) (state regulations “motivated by [nuclear] safety concerns” are preempted by the AEA (citing

42 U. S. C. §2021(k))).  For example, even though a State may generally regulate its roads, it may not shut down all of the roads to a nuclear power plant simply because it disagrees with the NRC’s nuclear safety regulations.  Here, because Virginia has not even disputed that its uranium mining ban was “grounded in” its “nuclear safety concerns” about uranium milling and tailings, the company’s preemption claim should not have been dismissed.

															The lead opinion and the concurrence miss that simple analysis because they shrink from our AEA precedents, particularly Pacific Gas.  In Pacific Gas, California had banned the construction of nuclear power plants until the State could ensure that new plants would have a viable method for permanently disposing of nuclear waste.  See 461 U. S., at 197–198.  On its face, the ban did not purport to regulate a preempted field; it did not regulate the manner in which nuclear power plants may be constructed or operated, which is a field preempted by the AEA.  See id., at 212.  If it had, the Court noted, the ban “would clearly be impermissible.”  Ibid.  The California statute instead purported to address the antecedent question whether new plants should be constructed at all—an area within the State’s traditional authority over the generation and cost of electricity.

															But the Court did not stop its preemption analysis there.  Instead, it was “necessary” to look beyond the face of the statute to determine California’s “rationale” for the ban.  Id., at 213.  California had argued that it could exercise its traditional authority over power generation to “completely prohibit new construction until its safety concerns [we]re satisfied by the Federal Government.”  Id., at 212.  The Court flatly “reject[ed] this line of reasoning.”  Ibid.  Because the AEA reserves the “field of nuclear safety concerns” to the Federal Government, a state law that was “grounded in” those concerns would fall “squarely within the prohibited field.”  Id., at 212–213.  In other words, if the purpose of California’s ban on nuclear plant construction was to regulate radiological safety, it would be preempted.  California’s statute ultimately avoided that outcome, however, because the State had put forward an independent “nonsafety rationale”—namely, its concern that new nuclear plants would not be economically viable if they were unable to permanently dispose of nuclear waste.  Id., at 213.  On that basis, the Court determined that the ban was not preempted.  Id., at 216 (“[W]e accept California’s avowed economic purpose as the rationale for enacting [the statute].  Accordingly, the statute lies outside the occupied field of nuclear safety regulation.” (emphasis added)).

															Pacific Gas should control the outcome here.  Like California’s ban in that case, Virginia’s ban on its face regulates a non-preempted field—uranium mining safety.  Like the plaintiffs challenging the California ban, the mining company argues that the statute’s purpose is really to regulate a preempted field—safety concerns about uranium milling and tailings.  But unlike California in Pacific Gas, Virginia in this case has not put forward a “nonsafety rationale.”  That should have been the end of the story, at least at this stage of the litigation.

															Neither the lead opinion nor the concurrence explain why this Court inquired into purpose in Pacific Gas but can dispense with that “necessary” step here, id., at 213; they just say the Court can.  See ante, at 8–9 (lead opinion); ante, at 10, n. 2 (opinion of Ginsburg, J.).  At one point, the lead opinion suggests that the AEA “authorize[s]” a purpose inquiry only when a state law “comes close to trenching on core federal powers.”  Ante, at 9.  But the opinion does not say where that rule comes from.  Certainly not the statute or our precedents.  And the lead opinion never explains why the safety concerns about nuclear plants in Pacific Gas are more “core” to the AEA than the safety concerns about uranium milling and tailings storage at issue here.

															The central argument from my colleagues appears to be that the AEA authorizes a purpose inquiry only when a State “targets” or “seek[s] to regulate” an activity that is also regulated by the federal statute.  Ante, at 6 (lead opinion); ante, at 10 (opinion of Ginsburg, J.). And because the Virginia statute seeks to regulate mining, the AEA “does not authorize any judicial inquiry into state legislative purpose in this case.”  Ante, at 8–9 (lead opinion); see ante, at 9–10 (opinion of Ginsburg, J.).  But it is conceded that the mining ban was adopted because of radiological safety concerns about milling and tailings.  That is why Virginia argues, as it must, that its mining ban would not be preempted even if it expressly stated that it was enacted due to the Commonwealth’s disagreement with the NRC’s nuclear safety regulations.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 33.  If such a statute does not “target” or “seek to regulate” a preempted field, what would?

															States may try to regulate one activity by exercising their authority over another.  That is the whole point of the purpose inquiry mandated by Pacific Gas.  Indeed, Pacific Gas specifically “emphasize[d]” that the California law did not expressly seek to regulate “the construction or operation of a nuclear powerplant,” that is, the statute on its face was not directed at a preempted field.  461 U. S., at 212.

															The AEA’s purpose inquiry is most useful precisely when the challenged state law does not purport to regulate a preempted field.  If a State disagrees with the AEA’s nuclear safety regulations, and thus wants to block nuclear development within its borders, it has myriad ways to do so through its broad police powers.  Under the rule adopted by the lead opinion and the concurrence, so long as the State is not boneheaded enough to express its real purpose in the statute, the State will have free rein to subvert Congress’s judgment on nuclear safety.

															A State could, for instance, restrict the ability of a county to provide a nuclear facility with municipal services like law enforcement, fire protection, and garbage collection.  If it wanted to target investors, a State could eliminate limited liability for the stockholders of companies that operate nuclear facilities.  Although these examples may seem farfetched, they have already happened.  See Skull Valley Band of Goshute Indians v. Nielson, 376 F.3d 1223, 1247–1248, 1250–1252 (CA10 2004).  In Skull Valley, however, the Tenth Circuit correctly applied our precedent and concluded that the “state cannot use its authority to regulate law enforcement and other similar matters as a means of regulating radiological hazards.”  Id., at 1248; see Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee, LLC v. Shumlin, 733 F.3d 393 (CA2 2013) (applying Pacific Gas and concluding that a state statute was a pretext for regulating radiological safety).  Neither the lead opinion nor the concurrence hazards an answer for cases like Skull Valley.

															As these examples show, AEA preemption cannot turn on the label a State affixes to its regulations.  That approach would simply invite evasion, which is why we have rejected it in our preemption cases more generally.  For example, in National Meat Assn. v. Harris,

565 U.S. 452 (2012), we addressed a preemption challenge involving slaughterhouses in California.  A federal statute preempted state regulation of slaughterhouses’ front-end procedures for inspecting, handling, and slaughtering livestock.  California, however, had regulated the back-end operations of slaughterhouses by prohibiting the sale of meat from livestock that had not been inspected, handled, and slaughtered according to the State’s regulations.  Id., at 455, 463–464.

															Although the federal statute’s preemption clause did “not usually foreclose state regulation of the commercial sales activities of slaughterhouses,” we unanimously held that California’s sales regulation was preempted because it was a transparent attempt to circumvent federal law.  Id., at 463 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Concluding otherwise, we noted, would allow a State to “impose any regulation on slaughterhouses just by framing it as a ban on the sale of meat produced in whatever way the State disapproved.”  Id., at 464.  And that “would make a mockery of the [federal statute’s] preemption provision.”  Ibid.; see also Engine Mfrs. Assn. v. South Coast Air Quality Management Dist.,

541 U.S. 246, 255 (2004) (stating that it “would make no sense” to allow a state regulation to evade preemption simply because it addressed the purchase, rather than manufacture, of a federally regulated product).

															The concurrence argues that National Meat is distinguishable because there the State regulated a downstream, non-preempted activity (sale of meat) in an effort to regulate an upstream, preempted activity (processing of livestock).  Here, however, Virginia’s regulation is upstream (mining) and the preempted activity is downstream (milling and tailings).  Ante, at 11.  That’s true but beside the point.  Regardless whether the state regulation is downstream like National Meat, upstream like here and Pacific Gas, or entirely out of the stream like Skull Valley, States may not legislate with the purpose and effect of regulating a federally preempted field.[4]

															That common sense approach is consistent with the text of the AEA, which recognizes that States continue to have authority “to regulate activities for purposes other than protection against radiation hazards.”

42 U. S. C. §2021(k) (emphasis added).  The lead opinion finds this purpose-based approach discomfiting, citing the “well-known conceptual and practical” difficulties about inquiring into legislative motive.  Ante, at 13.  The statute and our precedent plainly require such an approach here, however, and the difficulty of the task does not permit us to choose an easier way.  I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 “Does the AEA preempt a state law that on its face regulates an activity within its jurisdiction (here uranium mining), but has the purpose and effect of regulating the radiological safety hazards of activities entrusted to the NRC (here, the milling of uranium and the management of the resulting tailings)?”  Pet. for Cert. i. 

2
 Oddly, the lead opinion and concurrence suggest that developing this site is unnecessary because domestic production accounts for less than ten percent of the uranium used in the country.  See ante, at 16–17 (lead opinion); ante, at 12–13 (Ginsburg, J., concurring in judgment).  But given the critical role of uranium to the country’s energy industry and national defense, the near complete reliance on foreign sources of uranium—including substantial imports from Russia, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan—would seem to suggest just the opposite.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 353a (detailing foreign sources of uranium imports);

42 U. S. C. §2012(d) (“The processing and utilization of source, byproduct, and special nuclear material must be regulated in the national interest and in order to provide for the common defense and security and to protect the health and safety of the public.”); Energy Futures Initiatives, Inc., The U. S. Nuclear Energy Enterprise: A Key National Security Enabler 18 (Aug. 2017) (“A vibrant domestic nuclear energy industry, including a healthy supply chain . . . is essential for the achievement of U. S. national security objectives.”). 

3
 As the lead opinion acknowledges, Virginia has thus far in the litigation accepted the company’s claim that the actual purpose of the mining ban is to regulate the radiological safety of uranium milling and tailings storage.  See ante, at 11–12.  Virginia contends that if the case were to proceed past the pleadings stage, it could establish a nonsafety rationale for the ban.  See Brief for Respondents 47.  That may well be true.  See id., at 11 (discussing environmental concerns).  But for our purposes today, we must resolve the case on the terms that it has come to us. 

4
 In a footnote, the concurrence appears to reject its own analysis, stating that it makes no difference whether the state law is upstream or downstream of the federally preempted field.  See ante, at 11, n. 4.  Instead, the concurrence contends, the difference is that here the Commonwealth “regulated an activity, conventional uranium mining, that Congress left to state regulation.”  Ibid.  But that is equally true in National Meat, where the State had likewise regulated an activity, the sale of meat, that Congress left to state regulation.  See 565 U. S., at 463.  The concurrence and lead opinion also note that National Meat involved an “express” preemption provision whereas this case does not.  Ante, at 11, n. 3 (lead opinion); ante, at 11 (opinion of Ginsburg, J.).  But they do not explain why that matters, and there’s no reason it should.  In both cases, the plaintiffs alleged that the State regulated an undisputedly non-preempted activity as an indirect means to regulate an undisputedly preempted activity. 


