::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-004
::decision_cite:: 16-1161
::decision_name::  Gill v. Whitford
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–1161

															_________________

															BEVERLY R. GILL, et al., APPELLANTS v. WILLIAM WHITFORD, et al.

															on appeal from the united states district court for the western district of wisconsin

															[June 18, 2018]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and Justice Sotomayor join, concurring.

															The Court holds today that a plaintiff asserting a partisan gerrymandering claim based on a theory of vote dilution must prove that she lives in a packed or cracked district in order to establish standing.  See ante, at 14–17.  The Court also holds that none of the plaintiffs here have yet made that required showing.  See ante, at 17.

															I agree with both conclusions, and with the Court’s decision to remand this case to allow the plaintiffs to prove that they live in packed or cracked districts, see ante, at 21.  I write to address in more detail what kind of evidence the present plaintiffs (or any additional ones) must offer to support that allegation.  And I write to make some observations about what would happen if they succeed in proving standing—that is, about how their vote dilution case could then proceed on the merits.  The key point is that the case could go forward in much the same way it did below: Given the charges of statewide packing and cracking, affecting a slew of districts and residents, the challengers could make use of statewide evidence and seek a statewide remedy.

															I also write separately because I think the plaintiffs may have wanted to do more than present a vote dilution theory.  Partisan gerrymandering no doubt burdens individual votes, but it also causes other harms.  And at some points in this litigation, the plaintiffs complained of a different injury—an infringement of their
 
First Amendment right of association.  The Court rightly does not address that alternative argument: The plaintiffs did not advance it with sufficient clarity or concreteness to make it a real part of the case.  But because on remand they may well develop the associational theory, I address the standing requirement that would then apply.  As I’ll explain, a plaintiff presenting such a theory would not need to show that her particular voting district was packed or cracked for standing purposes because that fact would bear no connection to her substantive claim.  Indeed, everything about the litigation of that claim—from standing on down to remedy—would be statewide in nature.

															Partisan gerrymandering, as this Court has recognized, is “incompatible with democratic principles.”  Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Comm’n, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 1) (quoting Vieth v. Jubelirer,

541 U. S. 267, 292 (2004) (plurality opinion); alterations omitted).  More effectively every day, that practice enables politicians to entrench themselves in power against the people’s will.  And only the courts can do anything to remedy the problem, because gerrymanders benefit those who control the political branches.  None of those facts gives judges any excuse to disregard Article III’s demands.  The Court is right to say they were not met here.  But partisan gerrymandering injures enough individuals and organizations in enough concrete ways to ensure that standing requirements, properly applied, will not often or long prevent courts from reaching the merits of cases like this one.  Or from insisting, when they do, that partisan officials stop degrading the nation’s democracy.

															I

															As the Court explains, the plaintiffs’ theory in this case focuses on vote dilution.  See ante, at 15 (“Here, the plaintiffs’ partisan gerrymandering claims turn on allegations that their votes have been diluted”); see also ante, at 14, 16–17.  That is, the plaintiffs assert that Wisconsin’s State Assembly Map has caused their votes “to carry less weight than [they] would carry in another, hypothetical district.”  Ante, at 16.  And the mechanism used to wreak that harm is “packing” and “cracking.”  Ante, at 14.  In a relatively few districts, the mapmakers packed supermajorities of Democratic voters—well beyond the number needed for a Democratic candidate to prevail.  And in many more districts, dispersed throughout the State, the mapmakers cracked Democratic voters—spreading them sufficiently thin to prevent them from electing their preferred candidates.  The result of both practices is to “waste” Democrats’ votes.  Ibid.

															The harm of vote dilution, as this Court has long stated, is “individual and personal in nature.”  Reynolds v. Sims,

377 U. S. 533, 561 (1964); see ante, at 15.  It arises when an election practice—most commonly, the drawing of district lines—devalues one citizen’s vote as compared to others.  Of course, such practices invariably affect more than one citizen at a time.  For example, our original one-person, one-vote cases considered how malapportioned maps “contract[ed] the value” of urban citizens’ votes while “expand[ing]” the value of rural citizens’ votes.  Wesberry v. Sanders,

376 U. S. 1, 7 (1964).  But we understood the injury as giving diminished weight to each particular vote, even if millions were so touched.  In such cases, a voter living in an overpopulated district suffered “disadvantage to [herself] as [an] individual[ ]”: Her vote counted for less than the votes of other citizens in her State.  Baker v. Carr,

369 U. S. 186, 206 (1962); see ante, at 15.  And that kind of disadvantage is what a plaintiff asserting a vote dilution claim—in the one-person, one-vote context or any other—always alleges.

															To have standing to bring a partisan gerrymandering claim based on vote dilution, then, a plaintiff must prove that the value of her own vote has been “contract[ed].”  Wesberry, 376 U. S., at 7.  And that entails showing, as the Court holds, that she lives in a district that has been either packed or cracked.  See ante, at 17.  For packing and cracking are the ways in which a partisan gerrymander dilutes votes.  Cf. Voinovich v. Quilter,

507 U. S. 146, 153–154 (1993) (explaining that packing or cracking can also support racial vote dilution claims).  Consider the perfect form of each variety.  When a voter resides in a packed district, her preferred candidate will win no matter what; when a voter lives in a cracked district, her chosen candidate stands no chance of prevailing.  But either way, such a citizen’s vote carries less weight—has less consequence—than it would under a neutrally drawn map.  See ante, at 14, 16.  So when she shows that her district has been packed or cracked, she proves, as she must to establish standing, that she is “among the injured.”  Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife,

504 U. S. 555, 563 (1992) (quoting Sierra Club v. Morton,

405 U. S. 727, 735 (1972)); see ante, at 17.

															In many partisan gerrymandering cases, that threshold showing will not be hard to make.  Among other ways of proving packing or cracking, a plaintiff could produce an alternative map (or set of alternative maps)—comparably consistent with traditional districting principles—under which her vote would carry more weight.  Cf. Ante, at 20 (suggesting how an alternative map may shed light on vote dilution or its absence); Easley v. Cromartie,

532 U. S. 234, 258 (2001) (discussing the use of alternative maps as evidence in a racial gerrymandering case); Cooper v. Harris, 581 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2017) (slip op., at 28–34) (same); Brief for Political Geography Scholars as Amici Curiae 12–14 (describing computer simulation techniques for devising alternative maps).  For example, a Democratic plaintiff living in a 75%-Democratic district could prove she was packed by presenting a different map, drawn without a focus on partisan advantage, that would place her in a 60%-Democratic district.  Or conversely, a Democratic plaintiff residing in a 35%-Democratic district could prove she was cracked by offering an alternative, neutrally drawn map putting her in a 50–50 district.  The precise numbers are of no import.  The point is that the plaintiff can show, through drawing alternative district lines, that partisan-based packing or cracking diluted her vote.

															Here, the Court is right that the plaintiffs have so far failed to make such a showing.  See ante, at 17–20.  William Whitford was the only plaintiff to testify at trial about the alleged gerrymander’s effects.  He expressly acknowledged that his district would be materially identical under any conceivable map, whether or not drawn to achieve partisan advantage.  See ante, at 18, 20.  That means Wisconsin’s plan could not have diluted Whitford’s own vote.  So whatever other claims he might have, see infra, at 8–9, Whitford is not “among the injured” in a vote dilution challenge.  Lujan, 504 U. S., at 563 (quoting Sierra Club, 405 U. S., at 735).  Four other plaintiffs differed from Whitford by alleging in the complaint that they lived in packed or cracked districts.  But for whatever reason, they failed to back up those allegations with evidence as the suit proceeded.  See ante, at 17.  So they too did not show the injury—a less valuable vote—central to their vote dilution theory.

															That problem, however, may be readily fixable.  The Court properly remands this case to the District Court “so that the plaintiffs may have an opportunity” to “demonstrate a burden on their individual votes.”  Ante, at 21.  That means the plaintiffs—both the four who initially made those assertions and any others (current or newly joined)—now can introduce evidence that their individual districts were packed or cracked.  And if the plaintiffs’ more general charges have a basis in fact, that evidence may well be at hand.  Recall that the plaintiffs here alleged—and the District Court found, see 218 F. Supp. 3d 837, 896 (WD Wis. 2016)—that a unified Republican government set out to ensure that Republicans would control as many State Assembly seats as possible over a decade (five consecutive election cycles).  To that end, the government allegedly packed and cracked Democrats throughout the State, not just in a particular district (see, e.g., Benisek v. Lamone, No. 17–333) or region.  Assuming that is true, the plaintiffs should have a mass of packing and cracking proof, which they can now also present in district-by-district form to support their standing.  In other words, a plaintiff residing in each affected district can show, through an alternative map or other evidence, that packing or cracking indeed occurred there.  And if (or to the extent) that test is met, the court can proceed to decide all distinctive merits issues and award appropriate remedies.

															When the court addresses those merits questions, it can consider statewide (as well as local) evidence.  Of course, the court below and others like it are currently debating, without guidance from this Court, what elements make up a vote dilution claim in the partisan gerrymandering context.  But assume that the plaintiffs must prove illicit partisan intent—a purpose to dilute Democrats’ votes in drawing district lines.  The plaintiffs could then offer evidence about the mapmakers’ goals in formulating the entire statewide map (which would predictably carry down to individual districting decisions).  So, for example, the plaintiffs here introduced proof that the mapmakers looked to partisan voting data when drawing districts throughout the State—and that they graded draft maps according to the amount of advantage those maps conferred on Republicans.  See 218 F. Supp. 3d, at 890–896.  This Court has explicitly recognized the relevance of such statewide evidence in addressing racial gerrymandering claims of a district-specific nature.  “Voters,” we held, “of course[ ] can present statewide evidence in order to prove racial gerrymandering in a particular district.”  Alabama Legislative Black Caucus v. Alabama, 575 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 7).  And in particular, “[s]uch evidence is perfectly relevant” to showing that mapmakers had an invidious “motive” in drawing the lines of “multiple districts in the State.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 10).  The same should be true for partisan gerrymandering.

															Similarly, cases like this one might warrant a statewide remedy.  Suppose that mapmakers pack or crack a critical mass of State Assembly districts all across the State to elect as many Republican politicians as possible.  And suppose plaintiffs residing in those districts prevail in a suit challenging that gerrymander on a vote dilution theory.  The plaintiffs might then receive exactly the relief sought in this case.  To be sure, remedying each plaintiff’s vote dilution injury “requires revising only such districts as are necessary to reshape [that plaintiff’s] district—so that the [plaintiff] may be unpacked or uncracked, as the case may be.”  Ante, at 16.  But with enough plaintiffs joined together—attacking all the packed and cracked districts in a statewide gerrymander—those obligatory revisions could amount to a wholesale restructuring of the State’s districting plan.  The Court recognizes as much.  It states that a proper remedy in a vote dilution case “does not necessarily require restructuring all of the State’s legislative districts.”  Ibid. (emphasis added).  Not necessarily—but possibly.  It all depends on how much redistricting is needed to cure all the packing and cracking that the mapmakers have done.

															II

															Everything said so far relates only to suits alleging that a partisan gerrymander dilutes individual votes.  That is the way the Court sees this litigation.  See ante, at 14–17.  And as I’ll discuss, that is the most reasonable view.  See infra, at 10–11.  But partisan gerrymanders inflict other kinds of constitutional harm as well.  Among those injuries, partisan gerrymanders may infringe the
 
First Amendment rights of association held by parties, other political organizations, and their members.  The plaintiffs here have sometimes pointed to that kind of harm.  To the extent they meant to do so, and choose to do so on remand, their associational claim would occasion a different standing inquiry than the one in the Court’s opinion.

															Justice Kennedy explained the
 
First Amendment associational injury deriving from a partisan gerrymander in his concurring opinion in Vieth,

541 U. S. 267.  “Representative democracy,” Justice Kennedy pointed out, is today “unimaginable without the ability of citizens to band together” to advance their political beliefs.  Id., at 314 (opinion concurring in judgment) (quoting California Democratic Party v. Jones,

530 U. S. 567, 574 (2000)).  That means significant “
 
First Amendment concerns arise” when a State purposely “subject[s] a group of voters or their party to disfavored treatment.”  541 U. S., at 314.  Such action “burden[s] a group of voters’ representational rights.”  Ibid.; see id., at 315 (similarly describing the “burden[] on a disfavored party and its voters” and the “burden [on] a group’s representational rights”).  And it does so because of their “political association,” “participation in the electoral process,” “voting history,” or “expression of political views.”  Id., at 314–315.

															As so formulated, the associational harm of a partisan gerrymander is distinct from vote dilution.  Consider an active member of the Democratic Party in Wisconsin who resides in a district that a partisan gerrymander has left untouched (neither packed nor cracked).  His individual vote carries no less weight than it did before.  But if the gerrymander ravaged the party he works to support, then he indeed suffers harm, as do all other involved members of that party.  This is the kind of “burden” to “a group of voters’ representational rights” Justice Kennedy spoke of.  Id., at 314.  Members of the “disfavored party” in the State, id., at 315, deprived of their natural political strength by a partisan gerrymander, may face difficulties fundraising, registering voters, attracting volunteers, generating support from independents, and recruiting candidates to run for office (not to mention eventually accomplishing their policy objectives).  See Anderson v. Celebrezze,

460 U. S. 780, 791–792, and n. 12 (1983) (concluding that similar harms inflicted by a state election law amounted to a “burden imposed on . . . associational rights”).  And what is true for party members may be doubly true for party officials and triply true for the party itself (or for related organizations).  Cf. California Democratic Party, 530 U. S., at 586 (holding that a state law violated state political parties’
 
First Amendment rights of association).  By placing a state party at an enduring electoral disadvantage, the gerrymander weakens its capacity to perform all its functions.

															And if that is the essence of the harm alleged, then the standing analysis should differ from the one the Court applies.  Standing, we have long held, “turns on the nature and source of the claim asserted.”  Warth v. Seldin,

422 U. S. 490, 500 (1975).  Indeed, that idea lies at the root of today’s opinion.  It is because the Court views the harm alleged as vote dilution that it (rightly) insists that each plaintiff show packing or cracking in her own district to establish her standing.  See ante, at 14–17; supra, at 3–4.  But when the harm alleged is not district specific, the proof needed for standing should not be district specific either.  And the associational injury flowing from a statewide partisan gerrymander, whether alleged by a party member or the party itself, has nothing to do with the packing or cracking of any single district’s lines.  The complaint in such a case is instead that the gerrymander has burdened the ability of like-minded people across the State to affiliate in a political party and carry out that organization’s activities and objects.  See supra, at 8–9.  Because a plaintiff can have that complaint without living in a packed or cracked district, she need not show what the Court demands today for a vote dilution claim.  Or said otherwise: Because on this alternative theory, the valued association and the injury to it are statewide, so too is the relevant standing requirement.

															On occasion, the plaintiffs here have indicated that they have an associational claim in mind.  In addition to repeatedly alleging vote dilution, their complaint asserted in general terms that Wisconsin’s districting plan infringes their “
 
First Amendment right to freely associate with each other without discrimination by the State based on that association.”  1 App. 61, Complaint ¶91.  Similarly, the plaintiffs noted before this Court that “[b]eyond diluting votes, partisan gerrymandering offends
 
First Amendment values by penalizing citizens because of . . . their association with a political party.”  Brief for Appellees 36 (internal quotation marks omitted).  And finally, the plaintiffs’ evidence of partisan asymmetry well fits a suit alleging associational injury (although, as noted below, that was not how it was used, see infra, at 11).  As the Court points out, what those statistical metrics best measure is a gerrymander’s effect “on the fortunes of political parties” and those associated with them.  Ante, at 20.

															In the end, though, I think the plaintiffs did not sufficiently advance a
 
First Amendment associational theory to avoid the Court’s holding on standing.  Despite referring to that theory in their complaint, the plaintiffs tried this case as though it were about vote dilution alone.  Their testimony and other evidence went toward establishing the effects of rampant packing and cracking on the value of individual citizens’ votes.  Even their proof of partisan asymmetry was used for that purpose—although as noted above, it could easily have supported the alternative the- ory of associational harm, see supra, at 10.  The plaintiffs joining in this suit do not include the State Democratic Party (or any related statewide organization).  They did not emphasize their membership in that party, or their activities supporting it.  And they did not speak to any tangible associational burdens—ways the gerrymander had debilitated their party or weakened its ability to carry out its core functions and purposes, see supra, at 8–9.  Even in this Court, when disputing the State’s argument that they lacked standing, the plaintiffs reiterated their suit’s core theory: that the gerrymander “intentionally, severely, durably, and unjustifiably dilutes Democratic votes.”  Brief for Appellees 29–30.  Given that theory, the plaintiffs needed to show that their own votes were indeed diluted in order to establish standing.

															 But nothing in the Court’s opinion prevents the plaintiffs on remand from pursuing an associational claim, or from satisfying the different standing requirement that theory would entail.  The Court’s opinion is about a suit challenging a partisan gerrymander on a particular ground—that it dilutes the votes of individual citizens.  That opinion “leave[s] for another day consideration of other possible theories of harm not presented here and whether those theories might present justiciable claims giving rise to statewide remedies.”  Ante, at 16.  And in particular, it leaves for another day the theory of harm advanced by Justice Kennedy in Vieth: that a partisan gerrymander interferes with the vital “ability of citizens to band together” to further their political beliefs.  541 U. S., at 314 (quoting California Democratic Party, 530 U. S., at 574).  Nothing about that injury is “generalized” or “abstract,” as the Court says is true of the plaintiffs’ dissatisfaction with the “overall composition of the legislature.”  Ante, at 16.  A suit raising an associational theory complains of concrete “burdens on a disfavored party” and its members as they pursue their political interests and goals.  Vieth, 541 U. S., at 315 (opinion of Kennedy, J.); see supra, at 8–9.  And when the suit alleges that a gerrymander has imposed those burdens on a statewide basis, then its litigation should be statewide too—as to standing, liability, and remedy alike.

															III

															Partisan gerrymandering jeopardizes “[t]he ordered working of our Republic, and of the democratic process.”  Vieth, 541 U. S., at 316 (opinion of Kennedy, J.).  It en- ables a party that happens to be in power at the right time to entrench itself there for a decade or more, no matter what the voters would prefer.  At its most extreme, the practice amounts to “rigging elections.”  Id., at 317 (internal quotation marks omitted).  It thus violates the most fundamental of all democratic principles—that “the voters should choose their representatives, not the other way around.”  Arizona State Legislature, 576 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 35) (quoting Berman, Managing Gerrymandering, 83 Texas L. Rev. 781 (2005)).

															 And the evils of gerrymandering seep into the legislative process itself.  Among the amicus briefs in this case are two from bipartisan groups of congressional members and state legislators.  They know that both parties gerrymander.  And they know the consequences.  The congressional brief describes a “cascade of negative results” from excessive partisan gerrymandering: indifference to swing voters and their views; extreme political positioning designed to placate the party’s base and fend off primary challenges; the devaluing of negotiation and compromise; and the impossibility of reaching pragmatic, bipartisan solutions to the nation’s problems.  Brief for Bipartisan Group of Current and Former Members of Congress as Amici Curiae 4; see id., at 10–23.  The state legislators tell a similar story.  In their view, partisan gerrymandering has “sounded the death-knell of bipartisanship,” creating a legislative environment that is “toxic” and “tribal[ ].”  Brief for Bipartisan Group of 65 Current and Former State Legislators as Amici Curiae 6, 25.

															I doubt James Madison would have been surprised.  What, he asked when championing the Constitution, would make the House of Representatives work?  The House must be structured, he answered, to instill in its members “an habitual recollection of their dependence on the people.”  The Federalist No. 57, p. 352 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961).  Legislators must be “compelled to anticipate the moment” when their “exercise of [power] is to be reviewed.”  Ibid.  When that moment does not come—when legislators can entrench themselves in office despite the people’s will—the foundation of effective democratic governance dissolves.

															And our history offers little comfort.  Yes, partisan gerrymandering goes back to the Republic’s earliest days; and yes, American democracy has survived.  But technol- ogy makes today’s gerrymandering altogether different from the crude linedrawing of the past.  New redistricting software enables pinpoint precision in designing districts.  With such tools, mapmakers can capture every last bit of partisan advantage, while still meeting traditional districting requirements (compactness, contiguity, and the like).  See Brief for Political Science Professors as Amici Curiae 28.  Gerrymanders have thus become ever more extreme and durable, insulating officeholders against all but the most titanic shifts in the political tides.  The 2010 redistricting cycle produced some of the worst partisan gerrymanders on record.  Id., at 3.  The technology will only get better, so the 2020 cycle will only get worse.

															Courts have a critical role to play in curbing partisan gerrymandering.  Over fifty years ago, we committed to providing judicial review in the redistricting arena, because we understood that “a denial of constitutionally protected rights demands judicial protection.”  Reynolds, 377 U. S., at 566.  Indeed, the need for judicial review is at its most urgent in these cases.  For here, politicians’ incentives conflict with voters’ interests, leaving citizens without any political remedy for their constitutional harms.  Of course, their dire need provides no warrant for courts to disregard Article III.  Because of the way this suit was litigated, I agree that the plaintiffs have so far failed to establish their standing to sue, and I fully concur in the Court’s opinion.  But of one thing we may unfortunately be sure.  Courts—and in particular this Court—will again be called on to redress extreme partisan gerrymanders.  I am hopeful we will then step up to our responsibility to vindicate the Constitution against a contrary law.
													
