::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-038
::decision_cite:: 16-1423
::decision_name::  Ortiz v. United States
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–1423

															_________________

															KEANU D. W. ORTIZ, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the armed forces

															[June 22, 2018]

															

															Justice Thomas, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full, which persuasively explains why petitioner’s statutory and constitutional arguments lack merit.  I also agree that the statute giving this Court appellate jurisdiction to review the decisions of the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces (CAAF),

28 U. S. C. §1259, complies with Article III of the Constitution.  I write separately to explain why that conclusion is consistent with the Founders’ understanding of judicial power—specifically, the distinction they drew between public and private rights.[1]

															I

															Article III vests “[t]he judicial Power of the United States” in this Court and any inferior courts that Congress chooses to establish.  §1.  The judicial power includes the power to resolve the specific types of “Cases” and “Controversies” listed in §2.  Article III divides this Court’s jurisdiction over those cases into two categories: “original Jurisdiction” and “appellate Jurisdiction.”  This Court has original jurisdiction in cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls, and cases in which a State is a party.  This Court has appellate jurisdiction “[i]n all the other Cases before mentioned” in §2.  Because all agree that the CAAF decides “other Cases” that are not reserved for this Court’s original jurisdiction, we can review its decisions only under our appellate jurisdiction.

															The text of Article III imposes two important limits on this Court’s appellate jurisdiction.  First, as mentioned, this Court can review only the “other Cases” that are “before mentioned”—i.e., the subject matters of cases listed in §2 that are not reserved for its original jurisdiction.  Second, this Court’s “appellate Jurisdiction” cannot be “original.”  As Chief Justice Marshall explained, “the essential criterion of appellate jurisdiction” is that “it revises and corrects the proceedings in a cause already instituted, and does not create that cause.”  Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 175 (1803).  Thus, this Court cannot exercise appellate jurisdiction unless it is reviewing an already completed exercise of “judicial power.”  In re Sanborn,

148 U. S. 222, 224 (1893); see also The Alicia, 7 Wall. 571, 573 (1869) (“An appellate jurisdiction necessarily implies some judicial determination, some judgment, decree, or order of an inferior tribunal, from which an appeal has been taken”); 3 J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States §1755, p. 627 (1833) (explaining that this Court can review only decisions “by one clothed with judicial authority, and acting in a judicial capacity”).

															Other than these two limits, the text of Article III imposes no other self-executing constraints on this Court’s appellate jurisdiction.  Most notably, it does not require appeals to come from any specific type of tribunal, such as an Article III court.  As Justice Story explained, “The appellate power is not limited by the terms of the third article to any particular courts. . . . It is the case, then, and not the court, that gives the jurisdiction.  If the judicial power extends to the case, it will be in vain to search in the letter of the constitution for any qualification as to the tribunal.”  Martin v. Hunter’s Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 338 (1816).  Hamilton made the same point years earlier: “The Constitution in direct terms gives an appellate jurisdiction to the Supreme Court in all the enumerated cases . . . , without a single expression to confine its operation to the inferior federal courts.  The objects of appeal, not the tribunals from which it is to be made, are alone contemplated.”  The Federalist No. 82, pp. 493–494 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961); see also id., No. 81, at 489 (A. Hamilton) (rejecting a “technical interpretation” of the word “appellate” and defining it to mean “nothing more than the power of one tribunal to review the proceedings of another”).  This Court has relied on the lack of tribunal-specific limits in Article III to exercise appellate jurisdiction over several types of non-Article III courts, including state courts, see Martin, supra, at 338, and territorial courts, see United States v. Coe,

155 U. S. 76, 85–86 (1894); Wellness Int’l Network, Ltd. v. Sharif, 575 U. S. ___–___, n. 2 (2015) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 7–8, n. 2) (discussing American Ins. Co. v. 356 Bales of Cotton, 1 Pet. 511, 546 (1828)).  In short, this Court’s appellate jurisdiction requires the exercise of a judicial power, not necessarily “[t]he judicial Power of the United States” that Article III vests exclusively in the federal courts, §1 (emphasis  added).

															The Founders’ understanding of judicial power was heavily influenced by the well-known distinction between public and private rights.  See Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins, 578 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2016) (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 1–2); Wellness, supra, at ___–___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 6–11); Nelson, Adjudication in the Political Branches, 107 Colum. L. Rev. 559, 565 (2007) (Nelson).  Public rights “ ‘belon[g] to the people at large,’ ” while private rights belong to “ ‘each individual.’ ”  Wellness, 575 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op.,  at 9).  The three classic private rights—life, liberty, and property—are “ ‘unalienable’ ” and “ ‘absolute,’ ” as they are “not dependent upon the will of the government.”  Ibid.  The Founders linked the disposition of private rights with the exercise of judicial power.  See id., at ___ (slip op., at 10).  They considered “the power to act conclusively against [private] rights [as] the core of the judicial power.”  Ibid.

															A disposition of private rights did not amount to an exercise of judicial power, however, unless it also satisfied “some basic procedural requirements.”  Nelson 574.  Stated differently, the disposition had to “assume such a form that the judicial power is capable of acting on it.”  Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 819 (1824).  “[T]hat form generally required the presence (actual or constructive) of adverse parties who had been given some opportunity to be heard before the court rendered a final judgment that bound them.”  Nelson 574.  Once a dispute took this form, judicial power is exercised by “ ‘determin[ing] all differences according to the established law.’ ”  Wellness, supra, at ___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 6) (quoting J. Locke, Second Treatise of Civil Government §125, p. 63 (J. Gough ed. 1947)).

															II

															A

															So understood, the CAAF exercises a judicial power.  As I explained in Wellness, military courts adjudicate core private rights to life, liberty, and property.  See 575 U. S., at ___–___ (dissenting opinion) (slip op., at 6–7).  That these courts adjudicate core private rights does not contradict the Vesting Clause of Article III, which permits only federal courts to exercise “the judicial Power of the United States.”  Like other provisions of the Constitution, this language must be read against “commonly accepted background understandings and interpretative principles in place when the Constitution was written,” including the principle that general constitutional rules could apply “differently to civil than to military entities.”  Mascott, Who Are “Officers of the United States”? 70 Stan. L. Rev. 443, 480–483 (2018) (citing Nelson 576); see also Northern Pipeline Constr. Co. v. Marathon Pipe Line Co.,

458 U. S. 50, 64 (1982) (plurality opinion) (explaining that inter- preting Article III to exclude military courts “simply acknowledge[s] that the literal command of Art. III . . . must be interpreted in light of . . . historical context . . . and of the structural imperatives of the Constitution as a whole”).  Based on the “constellation of constitutional provisions that [indicate] Congress has the power to provide for the adjudication of disputes among the Armed Forces it creates,” our precedents have long construed the Vesting Clause of Article III to extend “only to civilian judicial power.”  Wellness, 575 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 8) (citing Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65, 78–79 (1858)).  In other words, the powers that the Constitution gives Congress over the military are “so exceptional” that they are thought to include the power to create courts that can exercise a judicial power outside the confines of Article III.  Northern Pipeline, supra, at 64.  Thus, military courts are better thought of as an “exception” or “carve-out” from the Vesting Clause of Article III, rather than an entity that does not implicate the Vesting Clause because it does not exercise judicial power in the first place.  See Wellness, supra, at ___–___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 6–8).

															No party in this case challenges the legitimacy of the historical exception for military courts.  And for good reason: “At the time of the Framing, . . . it was already common for nations to organize military tribunals that stood apart from the ordinary civilian courts, and the United States itself had done so.”  Nelson 576.  As the Court explains, military courts predate the Constitution, were well-known to the Founders, were authorized by the First Congress, and are expressly contemplated by the
 
Fifth Amendment.  Ante, at 9.  The crucial point for present purposes, however, is that military courts are considered exempt from the structural requirements of Article III “because of other provisions of the Constitution, not because of the definition of judicial power.”  Wellness, 575 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 8) (citing Nelson 576).  They plainly fall within that definition.

															Military courts “have long been understood to exercise ‘judicial’ power” because they “act upon core private rights to person and property.”  Id., at 576.  “[C]lothed with judicial powers,” these courts decide “questions of the most momentous description, affecting . . . even life itself.”  W. De Hart, Observations on Military Law 14 (1859); see also 11 Op. Atty. Gen. 19, 21 (1864) (explaining that military courts are “judicial” because they “pass upon the most sacred questions of human rights . . . which, in the very nature of things, . . . must be adjudged according to law”).  Here, for example, the CAAF adjudicated the legality of petitioner’s child-pornography convictions and his sentence of two years confinement—a classic deprivation of liberty, see Obergefell v. Hodges, 576 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2015) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 4–6).  “The passing of judgment on the life and liberty of those convicted by the government in a military trial surely falls within the judicial power.”  Willis, The Constitution, the United States Court of Military Appeals and the Future, 57 Mil. L. Rev. 27, 84 (1972).  This Court has acknowledged that military courts adjudicate core private rights, as it has repeatedly held that the prosecution of nonservicemembers in these courts would violate Article III.  See Northern Pipeline, supra, at 66, n. 17 (plurality opinion); e.g., United States ex rel. Toth v. Quarles,

350 U. S. 11 (1955) (former servicemembers); Reid v. Covert,

354 U. S. 1 (1957) (spouses of servicemembers).[2]

															In addition to adjudicating private rights, the CAAF’s cases “assume such a form that the judicial power is capable of acting on [them].”  Osborn, 9 Wheat., at 819.  The CAAF adjudicates cases involving “adverse parties who ha[ve] been given some opportunity to be heard.”  Nelson 574.  It has independent authority to “prescribe” its own “rules of procedure,”

10 U. S. C. §944, which provide for briefing, oral argument, and other procedures that mirror a federal court of appeals.  See generally CAAF Rules of Practice and Proc. (2017).  The CAAF also decides cases “ ‘according to the established law.’ ”  Wellness, 575 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 6).  It can act “only with respect to matters of law,” §867(c), and its civilian judges decide cases by independently interpreting the Constitution, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, and other federal laws.  Lastly, the CAAF renders “final judgment[s] that b[ind] [the parties].”  Nelson 574.  Its judgments are “final and conclusive” as soon as they are published and are “binding upon all departments, courts, agencies, and officers of the United States.”  §876.  The Executive Branch has no statutory authority to review or modify the CAAF’s decisions.[3]  In short, when it comes to the CAAF, “ ‘[t]he whole proceeding from its inception is judicial.’ ”  Runkle v. United States,

122 U. S. 543, 558 (1887) (quoting 11 Op. Atty. Gen., at 21).[4]

															B

															Professor Bamzai contends that the CAAF exercises an executive, not a judicial, power.  He notes that this Court has described the CAAF as an “Executive Branch entity,” Edmond v. United States,

520 U. S. 651, 664 (1997), and he cites commentators who describe military courts as “instrumentalities of the executive power” because they help the President maintain discipline over the Armed Forces, W. Winthrop, Military Law and Precedents 49 (2d ed. 1920); G. Davis, Military Law of the United States 15 (2d ed. 1909).  Professor Bamzai also compares the CAAF to administrative agencies, which he contends exercise executive power.  If agencies exercised core judicial power, he notes, they would be acting unconstitutionally because they do not enjoy the structural protections of Article III.  See Arlington v. FCC,

569 U. S. 290, 304, n. 4 (2013).

															These arguments miss the mark.  While the CAAF is in the Executive Branch and its purpose is to help the President maintain troop discipline, those facts do not change the nature of the power that it exercises.  See Brigadier General S. T. Ansell’s Brief Filed in Support of His Office Opinion (Dec. 11, 1917), reprinted in Hearings on S. 64 before the Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Military Affairs, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., 71, 76 (1919).  And it is the nature of the power, not the branch exercising it, that controls our appellate jurisdiction:

															“The controlling question is whether the function to be exercised . . . is a judicial function . . . .  We must not ‘be misled by a name, but look to the substance and intent of the proceeding.’  United States v. Ritchie, 17 How. 525, 534 [(1855)].  ‘It is not important . . . whether such a proceeding was originally begun by an administrative or executive determination, if when it comes to the court, whether legislative or constitutional, it calls for the exercise of only the judicial  power.’ ”  Federal Radio Comm’n v. Nelson Brothers Bond & Mortgage Co. (Station WIBO),

289 U. S. 266, 277–278 (1933) (some citations omitted).

															As explained, the CAAF exercises a judicial power because it adjudicates private rights.  That the Constitution permits this Executive Branch entity to exercise a particular judicial power—due to the political branches’ expansive constitutional powers over the military—does not change the analysis.

															Professor Bamzai’s analogy to administrative agencies is flawed.  Professor Bamzai assumes that, when administrative agencies adjudicate private rights, they are not exercising judicial power.  But they are.  See B&B Hardware, Inc. v. Hargis Industries, Inc., 575 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2015) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 11–12).  In fact, they are unconstitutionally exercising “[t]he judicial Power of the United States,” as agencies are not Article III courts and do not “enjoy a unique, textually based” carve-out from the Vesting Clause of Article III.  Wellness, 575 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 14).  The CAAF does enjoy such a carveout, as I explained in Wellness.  But both it and administrative agencies exercise a judicial power when they adjudicate private rights.  Contrary to the premise underlying Professor Bamzai’s argument, questions implicating the separation of powers cannot be answered by arguing, in circular fashion, that whatever the Executive Branch does is necessarily an exercise of executive power.

															*  *  *

															Because the CAAF exercises a judicial power, the statute giving this Court appellate jurisdiction over its decisions does not violate Article III.  For these reasons, and the reasons given by the Court, I concur.
Notes
1
 I express no view on any other arguments that were not raised by the parties or amicus in this case, including any arguments based on Article II of the Constitution. 

2
 Servicemembers consent to military jurisdiction when they enlist.  While this consent might allow military courts to adjudicate a servicemember’s private rights, it does not transform the nature of the power that the military courts exercise, or somehow transform the servicemember’s private right to life, liberty, or property into a public right.  See Wellness Int’l Network, Ltd. v. Sharif, 575 U. S. ___, ___, ___ (2015) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 6, 14). 

3
 Unlike the CAAF’s decisions, court-martial proceedings are not final until they are approved by the convening authority.  See

10 U. S. C. §876.  But the CAAF does not review court-martial proceedings until after they have been approved and have been reviewed by an intermediate Court of Criminal Appeals.  See §867(c).  Because “the [CAAF] reviews court-martial convictions after executive branch review ends,” the “[r]eview of its decisions in the Supreme Court of the United States, by certiorari, . . . poses no finality problems” under Article III.  Pfander, Article I Tribunals, Article III Courts, and the Judicial Power of the United States, 118 Harv. L. Rev. 643, 717, n. 327 (2004). 

4
 Most of the statutes cited above are unique to the CAAF—the court whose decision we are reviewing and, thus, the only one that matters for purposes of our appellate jurisdiction.  I express no view on whether this Court could directly review the CAAF, absent these statutes.  And I express no view on whether this Court could directly review the decisions of other military courts, such as courts-martial or military commissions.  Cf. id., at 723, n. 358 (suggesting that this Court could not directly review courts-martial and military commissions because their proceedings are “summary” and “create no record to support writ of error review”); Choper & Yoo, Wartime Process: A Dialogue on Congressional Power to Remove Issues from the Federal Courts, 95 Cal. L. Rev. 1243, 1283 (2007) (suggesting that the adjudication of the rights of enemy aliens by law-of-war military commissions might be better understood as exercising the President’s power to conduct war, not judicial power).  And, of course, this Court’s appellate jurisdiction does not allow it to directly review decisions of the Executive Branch that do not “assume such a form that the judicial power is capable of acting on [them].”  Osborn v. Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738, 819 (1824). 


