::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-027
::decision_cite:: 16-1144
::decision_name::  Marinello v. United States
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–1144

															_________________

															CARLO J. MARINELLO, II, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit

															[March, 21 2018]

															

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito joins, dissenting.

															The Omnibus Clause of

26 U. S. C. §7212(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (Tax Code) makes it a felony to “corruptly . . . endeavo[r] to obstruct or imped[e] the due administration of this title.”  “[T]his title” refers to Title 26, which contains the entire Tax Code and authorizes the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to calculate, assess, and collect taxes.  I would hold that the Omnibus Clause does what it says: forbid corrupt efforts to impede the IRS from performing any of these activities.  The Court, however, reads “this title” to mean “a particular [IRS] proceeding.”  Ante, at 10.  And that proceeding must be either “pending” or “in the offing.”  Ante, at 11.  The Court may well prefer a statute written that way, but that is not what Congress enacted.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															Petitioner Carlo J. Marinello, II, owned and managed a company that provided courier services.  Marinello, however, kept almost no records of the company’s earnings or expenditures.  He shredded or discarded most business records.  He paid his employees in cash and did not give them tax documents.  And he took tens of thousands of dollars from the company each year to pay his personal expenses.

															Unbeknownst to Marinello, the IRS began investigating him in 2004.  The IRS learned that he had not filed a tax return—corporate or individual—since at least 1992.  But the investigation came to a standstill because the IRS did not have enough information about Marinello’s earnings.  This was not surprising given his diligent efforts to avoid creating a paper trail.  After the investigation ended, Marinello consulted a lawyer and an accountant, both of whom advised him that he needed to file tax returns and keep business records.  Despite these warnings, Marinello did neither for another four years.

															In 2009, the IRS decided to investigate Marinello again.  In an interview with an IRS agent, Marinello initially claimed he was exempt from filing tax returns because he made less than $1,000 per year.  Upon further questioning, however, Marinello changed his story.  He admitted that he earned more than $1,000 per year, but said he “ ‘never got around’ ” to paying taxes.  839 F. 3d 209, 212 (CA2 2016).  He also admitted that he shredded documents, did not keep track of the company’s income or expenses, and used the company’s income for personal bills.  His only excuse was that he “took the easy way out.”  Ibid.  After just a few hours of deliberation, a jury con- victed Marinello of corruptly endeavoring to obstruct or impede the due administration of the Tax Code, §7212(a).

															II

															Section 7212(a)’s Omnibus Clause prohibits “corruptly . . . obstruct[ing] or imped[ing], or endeavor[ing] to obstruct or impede, the due administration of this title.”  I agree with the Court’s interpretations of “obstruct or impede” and “due administration,” which together refer to conduct that hinders the IRS’ performance of its official duties.  See ante, at 4–5.  I also agree that the object of these words—the thing a person is prohibited from obstructing the due administration of—is “this title,” i.e., Title 26, which contains the entire Tax Code.  See ante, at 4.  But I part ways when the Court concludes that the whole phrase “due administration of the Tax Code” means “only some of” the Tax Code—specifically “particular [IRS] proceeding[s], such as an investigation, an audit, or other targeted administrative action.”  Ante, at 5, 10.  That limitation has no basis in the text.  In my view, the plain text of the Omnibus Clause prohibits obstructing the due administration of the Tax Code in its entirety, not just particular IRS proceedings.

															A

															The words “this title” cannot be read to mean “only some of this title.”  As this Court recently reiterated, phrases such as “this title” most naturally refer to the cited provision “as a whole.”  Rubin v. Islamic Republic of Iran, 583 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 8).  Congress used “this title” throughout Title 26 to refer to the Tax Code in its entirety.  See, e.g., §7201 (“[a]ny person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by this title”); §7203 (“[a]ny person required under this title to pay any estimated tax or tax, or required by this title . . . to make a return, keep any records, or supply any information, who willfully fails to [do so]”).  And, “[w]hen Congress wanted to refer only to a particular subsection or paragraph, it said so.”  NLRB v. SW General, Inc., 580 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 9); see, e.g., §7204 (criminalizing willfully failing to furnish a statement  “required under section 6051”); §7207 (criminalizing willfully furnishing fraudulent or materially false information “required pursuant to section 6047(b), section 6104(d), or subsection (i) or (j) of section 527”); §7210 (criminalizing neglecting to appear or produce documents “required under section 6420(e)(2), 6421(g)(2), 6427( j)(2), 7602, 7603, and 7604(b)”).  Thus, “this title” must refer to the Tax Code as a whole.

															The phrase “due administration of this title” likewise refers to the due administration of the entire Tax Code.  As this Court has recognized, “administration” of the Tax Code includes four basic steps: information gathering, assessment, levy, and collection.  See Direct Marketing Assn. v. Brohl, 575 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2015) (slip op., at 6–7).  The first “phase of tax administration procedure” is “information gathering.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6); see, e.g., §§6001–6096.  “This step includes private reporting of information used to determine tax liability, including reports by third parties who do not owe the tax.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6) (citation omitted).  The “next step in the process” is “assessment,” which includes “the process by which [a taxpayer’s liability] is calculated” and the “official recording of a taxpayer’s liability.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6); see, e.g., §§6201–6241.  After information gathering and assessment come “levy” and “collection.”  See id., at ___ (slip op., at 7); see, e.g., §§6301–6344.  Levy refers to “a specific mode of collection under which the Secretary of the Treasury distrains and seizes a recalcitrant taxpayer’s property.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 7).  Collection refers to “the act of obtaining payment of taxes due.”  Ibid.

															Subtitle F of the Tax Code—titled “Procedure and Administration”—contains directives related to each of these steps.  It requires taxpayers to keep certain records and file certain returns, §6001; specifies that taxpayers with qualifying incomes must file returns, §6012; and author- izes the Secretary of the Treasury to create returns for taxpayers who fail to file returns or who file fraudulent ones, §6020.  It requires the Secretary to make inquiries, determinations, and assessments of tax liabilities.  §6201.  And it authorizes the Secretary to collect and levy taxes.  §§6301, 6331.  Subtitle F also gives the Secretary the power to commence proceedings to recover unpaid taxes or fees, §§7401–7410, and to conduct investigations into the accuracy of particular returns, §§7601–7613.

															Accordingly, the phrase “due administration of this title” refers to the entire process of taxation, from gathering information to assessing tax liabilities to collecting and levying taxes.  It is not limited to only a few specific provisions within the Tax Code.

															B

															The Court rejects this straightforward reading, describing the “literal language” of the Omnibus Clause as “neutral.”  Ante, at 4.  It concludes that the statute prohibits only acts related to a pending or imminent proceeding.  Ante, at 10–11.  There is no textual or contextual support for this limitation.

															The text of the Omnibus Clause is not “neutral”; it omits the limitation that the Court reads into it.  The Omnibus Clause nowhere suggests that “only some of” the processes in the Tax Code are covered, ante, at 5, or that the line between covered and uncovered processes is drawn at some vague notion of “proceeding.”  The Omnibus Clause does not use the word “proceeding” at all, but instead refers to the entire Tax Code, which covers much more than that.  This Court cannot “lightly assume that Congress has omitted from its adopted text requirements that it nonetheless intends to apply.”  Jama v. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,

543 U. S. 335,
341 (2005)
.

															Having failed to find its proposed limit in the text, the Court turns to context.  However, its two contextual arguments fare no better.

															First, the Court contends that the Omnibus Clause must be limited to pending or imminent proceedings because the other clauses of §7212 are limited to actions “taken against individual identifiable persons or property.”  Ante, at 5.  But specific clauses in a statute typically do not limit the scope of a general omnibus clause.  See Ali v. Federal Bureau of Prisons,

552 U. S. 214,
225 (2008)
 (explaining that the ejusdem generis canon does not apply to a “disjunctive” phrase in a statute “with one specific and one general category”).  Nor do the other clauses in §7212 contain the pending-or-imminent-proceeding requirement that the Court reads into the Omnibus Clause.  See §7212(a) (prohibiting efforts to “intimidate or impede any officer or employee of the United States acting in an official capacity”); §7212(b) (prohibiting “forcibly rescu[ing] or caus[ing] to be rescued any property after it shall have been seized under this title”).  They thus provide no support for the Court’s atextual limitation.

															Second, the Court asserts that its reading prevents the Omnibus Clause from overlapping with certain misdemeanors in the Tax Code.  Ante, at 6–7 (discussing §§7203, 7204, 7205).  But there is no redundancy problem because these provisions have different mens rea requirements.  The Omnibus Clause requires that an act be done “corruptly,” but the misdemeanor provisions require that an act be done “willfully.”  The difference between these mens rea requirements is significant.  While “willfully” requires proof only “that the law imposed a duty on the defendant, that the defendant knew of this duty, and that he voluntarily and intentionally violated that duty,” Cheek v. United States,

498 U. S. 192,
201 (1991)
, “corruptly” requires proof that the defendant “act[ed] with an intent to procure an unlawful benefit either for [himself] or for some other person,” United States v. Floyd, 740 F. 3d 22, 31 (CA1 2014) (collecting cases); see also Black’s Law Dictionary 414 (rev. 4th ed. 1951) (“corruptly” “generally imports a wrongful design to acquire some pecuniary or other advantage”).  In other words, “corruptly” requires proof that the defendant not only knew he was obtaining an “unlawful benefit” but that his “objective” or “purpose” was to obtain that unlawful benefit.  See 21 Am. Jur. 2d, Criminal Law §114 (2016) (explaining that specific intent requires both knowledge and purpose).

															The Court dismisses the significance of the different mens rea requirements, see ante, at 8, but this difference is important under basic principles of criminal law.  The law recognizes that the same conduct, when committed with a higher mens rea, is more culpable and thus more deserving of punishment.  See Schad v. Arizona,

501 U. S. 624,
643 (1991)
 (plurality opinion).  For that reason, different mens rea requirements often differentiate culpability for the same conduct.  See, e.g., 40 C. J. S., Homicide §80 (2014) (explaining that the distinction between first- and second-degree murder is based on the defendant’s state of mind); §103 (same for voluntary and involuntary manslaughter).  Unless the Court means to cast doubt on this well-established principle, it should not casually dismiss the different mens rea requirements in the Omnibus Clause and the various misdemeanors in the Tax Code.

															Even if the Omnibus Clause did overlap with these other misdemeanors, that would prove little.  For better or worse, redundancy abounds in both the criminal law and the Tax Code.  This Court has repeatedly declined to depart from the plain meaning of the text simply because the same conduct would be criminalized under two or more provisions.  See, e.g., Loughrin v. United States, 573 U. S. ___, ___, n. 4 (2014) (slip op., at 7, n. 4) (“No doubt, the overlap between the two clauses is substantial on our reading, but that is not uncommon in criminal statutes”); Hubbard v. United States,

514 U. S. 695
, n. 14 (1995) (“Congress may, and often does, enact separate criminal statutes that may, in practice, cover some of the same conduct”); Sansone v. United States,

380 U. S. 343,
352 (1965)
 (allowing the Government to proceed on a felony tax evasion charge even though that charge “ ‘covered precisely the same ground’ ” as two misdemeanors in the Tax Code).  In fact, the Court’s interpretation of the Omnibus Clause does not eliminate the redundancy.  Certain misdemeanor offenses in the Tax Code—such as failing to obey a summons, §7210—apply to conduct that takes place during a proceeding and, thus, would still violate the Omnibus Clause under the Court’s interpretation.  The Court’s interpretation also makes the Omnibus Clause largely redundant with

18 U. S. C. §1505, which already prohibits “corruptly . . . endeavor[ing] to influence, obstruct, or impede the due and proper administration of the law under which any pending proceeding is being had before any department or agency of the United States.”  Avoiding redundancy is thus not a reason to favor the Court’s interpretation.  Cf. Marx v. General Revenue Corp.,

568 U. S. 371,
385 (2013)
 (“[T]he canon against surplusage ‘assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute’ ”).[1]*

															C

															The Court contends that its narrow reading of “due administration of this title” is supported by three decisions interpreting other obstruction statutes, though it admits that the “language and history” of the Omnibus Clause “differ somewhat” from those other obstruction provisions.  Ante, at 9 (citing United States v. Aguilar,

515 U. S. 593 (1995)
; Arthur Andersen LLP v. United States,

544 U. S. 696 (2005)
; Yates v. United States, 574 U. S. ___ (2015) (plurality opinion)).  “[D]iffer somewhat” is putting  it lightly.  The differences between the Omnibus Clause and those other obstruction statutes demonstrate why  the former does not contain the Court’s proceeding  requirement.

															Aguilar interpreted

18 U. S. C. §1503.  The omnibus clause of §1503 forbids corruptly endeavoring to obstruct “the due administration of justice.”  The Court concluded that this language requires the prosecution to prove a “nexus” between the defendant’s obstructive act and “judicial proceedings.”  515 U. S., at 599–600.  But this nexus requirement was based on the specific history of §1503.  The predecessor to that statute prohibited obstructing “the due administration of justice” “in any court of the United States.”  Pettibone v. United States,

148 U. S. 197,
202 (1893)
 (citing Rev. Stat. §5399).  Based on this statutory history, the Court assumed that §1503 continued to refer to the administration of justice in a court.  Aguilar, supra, at 599.  None of that history is present here.

															Arthur Anderson is even further afield.  There the Court interpreted

18 U. S. C. §1512(b)(2)(A), which prohibits “knowingly . . . corruptly persuad[ing] another person . . . with intent to . . . cause or induce [that] person to . . . withhold testimony, or withhold a record, document, or other object, from an official proceeding.”  Relying on Aguilar, the Court concluded that §1512(b)(2)(A) required the Government to show a “nexus” with “[a] particular proceeding.”  544 U. S., at 707–708.  But this nexus requirement came from the statutory text, which expressly included “an official proceeding.”  If anything, then, §1512(b)(2)(A) cuts against the Court’s interpretation of the Omnibus Clause because it shows that Congress knows how to impose a “proceeding” requirement when it wants to do so.  See Kucana v. Holder,

558 U. S. 233,
248 (2010)
; Jama, 543 U. S., at 341.

															Yates underscores this point.  There the Court interpreted

18 U. S. C. §1519, which prohibits obstructing “the investigation or proper administration of any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States.”  The four Justices in the plurality recognized that this language made §1519 broader than other obstruction statutes: Section 1519 “covers conduct intended to impede any federal investigation or proceeding, including one not even on the verge of commencement.”  574 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 18).  The plurality contrasted the term “official proceeding” with the phrase “investigation or proper administration of any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency,” noting that the latter is broader.  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 12–13).  The same is true for the broad language of the Omnibus Clause.

															In sum, these cases demonstrate that, when text and history justify it, this Court interprets obstruction statutes to include a proceeding requirement.  But we have never inserted such a requirement into an obstruction statute without textual or historical support.  Today the Court does precisely that.

															D

															All else having failed, the Court invokes lenity-sounding concerns to justify reading its proceeding requirement into the Omnibus Clause.  See ante, at 4, 7.  But the rule of lenity applies only if after applying ordinary tools of statutory interpretation, “there remains a grievous ambiguity or uncertainty in the statute such that the Court must simply guess as to what Congress intended.”  Barber v. Thomas,

560 U. S. 474,
488 (2010)
 (citation and internal quotation marks omitted).  The Court identifies no such grievous ambiguity in the Omnibus Clause, and breadth is not the same thing as ambiguity.  The Omnibus Clause is both “very broad” and “very clear.”  Yates, supra, at ___ (Kagan, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 15).  Lenity does not apply.

															If the Court is concerned that the Omnibus Clause does not give defendants “fair warning” of what it prohibits, ante, at 7, I am hard pressed to see how today’s decision makes things better.  The Court outlines its atextual proceeding requirement in only the vaguest of terms.  Under its interpretation, the prosecution must prove a “nexus” between the defendant’s conduct and some “particular administrative proceeding.”  Ante, at 10.  “[P]articular administrative proceeding” is defined negatively as “not . . . every act carried out by IRS employees in the course of their ‘continuous, ubiquitous, and universally known’ administration of the Tax Code.”  Ante, at 10–11.  Further, the Government must prove that the proceeding was “reasonably foreseeable” to the defendant.  Ante, at 11.  “Reasonably foreseeable” is again defined negatively as “not . . . that the defendant knew the IRS may catch onto his unlawful scheme eventually.”  Ibid.  It is hard to see how the Court’s statute is less vague than the one Congress drafted, which simply instructed individuals not to corruptly obstruct or impede the IRS’ administration of the Tax Code.

															E

															To be sure, §7212(a) is a sweeping obstruction statute.  Congress may well have concluded that a broad statute was warranted because “our tax structure is based on a system of self-reporting” and “the Government depends upon the good faith and integrity of each potential tax- payer to disclose honestly all information relevant to tax liability.”  United States v. Bisceglia,

420 U. S. 141,
145 (1975)
.  Whether or not we agree with Congress’ judgment, we must leave the ultimate “[r]esolution of the pros and cons of whether a statute should sweep broadly or narrowly . . . for Congress.”  United States v. Rodgers,

466 U. S. 475,
484 (1984)
.  “[I]t is not our task to assess the consequences of each approach and adopt the one that produces the least mischief.  Our charge is to give effect to the law Congress enacted.”  Lewis v. Chicago,

560 U. S. 205,
217 (2010)
.

															The Court frets that the Omnibus Clause might apply to “a person who pays a babysitter $41 per week in cash without withholding taxes,” “leaves a large cash tip in a restaurant,” “fails to keep donation receipts from every charity,” or “fails to provide every record to an accountant.”  Ante, at 7.  Whether the Omnibus Clause would cover these hypotheticals—and whether the Government would waste its resources identifying and prosecuting them—is debatable.  But what should not be debatable is that the statute covers Marinello, who systematically shredded documents and hid evidence about his company’s earnings to avoid paying taxes even after warnings from his lawyer and accountant.  It is not hard to find similar cases prosecuted under the Omnibus Clause.  See, e.g., United States v. Sorenson, 801 F. 3d 1217, 1221–1222 (CA10 2015) (defendant hid taxable income in elaborate system of trusts); Floyd, 740 F. 3d, at 26–27, 31–32 (defendant created elaborate scheme to avoid paying payroll taxes).

															The Court, in its effort to exclude hypotheticals, has constructed an opening in the Omnibus Clause large enough that even the worst offenders can escape liability.  In doing so, it failed to heed what this Court recognized in a similar case: “[T]he authority vested in tax collectors may be abused, as all power is subject to abuse.  However, the solution is not to restrict that authority so as to undermine the efficacy of the federal tax system.”  Bisceglia, supra, at 146.

															*  *  *

															Regardless of whether this Court thinks the Omnibus Clause should contain a proceeding requirement, it does not have one.  Because the text prohibits all efforts to obstruct the due administration of the Tax Code, I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
* The Court also relies on legislative history to support its interpretation.  See ante, at 5–6.  Even assuming legislative history could impose a requirement that does not appear in the text, the Court cites nothing in the legislative history that limits the Omnibus Clause to proceedings—or even uses the word “proceeding.”  In fact, the legislative history does not say anything at all about the Omnibus Clause.  As Marinello concedes, the vague snippets of legislative history that the Court cites are discussing a different portion of

26 U. S. C. §7212(a), involving threats against IRS officers and their family members.  See Reply Brief 11 (“The conceded focus of §7212(a)’s legislative history was the officers clause” and it was “relative[ly] silen[t] regarding [the Omnibus Clause]”). 


