::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-020
::decision_cite:: 16-111
::decision_name::  Masterpiece Cakeshop, Ltd. v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Ginsburg
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–111

															_________________

															MASTERPIECE CAKESHOP, LTD., et al., PETITIONERS v. COLORADO CIVIL RIGHTS COMMISSION, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeals of colorado

															[June 4, 2018]

															

															Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Sotomayor joins, dissenting.

															There is much in the Court’s opinion with which I agree.  “[I]t is a general rule that [religious and philosophical] objections do not allow business owners and other actors in the economy and in society to deny protected persons equal access to goods and services under a neutral and generally applicable public accommodations law.”  Ante, at 9.  “Colorado law can protect gay persons, just as it can protect other classes of individuals, in acquiring whatever products and services they choose on the same terms and conditions as are offered to other members of the public.”  Ante, at 10.  “[P]urveyors of goods and services who object to gay marriages for moral and religious reasons [may not] put up signs saying ‘no goods or services will be sold if they will be used for gay marriages.’ ”  Ante, at 12.  Gay persons may be spared from “indignities when they seek goods and services in an open market.”  Ante, at 18.[1]  I strongly disagree, however, with the Court’s conclusion that Craig and Mullins should lose this case.  All of the above-quoted statements point in the opposite direction.

															The Court concludes that “Phillips’ religious objection was not considered with the neutrality that the Free Exercise Clause requires.”  Ante, at 17.  This conclusion rests on evidence said to show the Colorado Civil Rights Commission’s (Commission) hostility to religion.  Hostility is discernible, the Court maintains, from the asserted “disparate consideration of Phillips’ case compared to the cases of” three other bakers who refused to make cakes requested by William Jack, an amicus here.  Ante, at 18.  The Court also finds hostility in statements made at two public hearings on Phillips’ appeal to the Commission.  Ante, at 12–14.  The different outcomes the Court features do not evidence hostility to religion of the kind we have previously held to signal a free-exercise violation, nor do the comments by one or two members of one of the four decisionmaking entities considering this case justify reversing the judgment below.

															I

															On March 13, 2014—approximately three months after the ALJ ruled in favor of the same-sex couple, Craig and Mullins, and two months before the Commission heard Phillips’ appeal from that decision—William Jack visited three Colorado bakeries.  His visits followed a similar pattern.  He requested two cakes

															“made to resemble an open Bible.  He also requested that each cake be decorated with Biblical verses.  [He] requested that one of the cakes include an image of two groomsmen, holding hands, with a red ‘X’ over the image.  On one cake, he requested [on] one side[,] . . .  ‘God hates sin.  Psalm 45:7’ and on the opposite side of the cake ‘Homosexuality is a detestable sin.  Leviticus 18:2.’  On the second cake, [the one] with the image of the two groomsmen covered by a red ‘X’ [Jack] requested [these words]: ‘God loves sinners’ and on the other side ‘While we were yet sinners Christ died for us.  Romans 5:8.’ ”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 319a; see id., at 300a, 310a.

															In contrast to Jack, Craig and Mullins simply requested a wedding cake: They mentioned no message or anything else distinguishing the cake they wanted to buy from any other wedding cake Phillips would have sold.

															One bakery told Jack it would make cakes in the shape of Bibles, but would not decorate them with the requested messages; the owner told Jack her bakery “does not discriminate” and “accept[s] all humans.”  Id., at 301a (internal quotation marks omitted).  The second bakery owner told Jack he “had done open Bibles and books many times and that they look amazing,” but declined to make the specific cakes Jack described because the baker regarded the messages as “hateful.”  Id., at 310a (internal quotation marks omitted).  The third bakery, according to Jack, said it would bake the cakes, but would not include the requested message.  Id., at 319a.[2]

															Jack filed charges against each bakery with the Colo- rado Civil Rights Division (Division).  The Division found no probable cause to support Jack’s claims of unequal treatment and denial of goods or services based on his Christian religious beliefs.  Id., at 297a, 307a, 316a.  In this regard, the Division observed that the bakeries regularly produced cakes and other baked goods with Christian symbols and had denied other customer requests for designs demeaning people whose dignity the Colorado Antidiscrimination Act (CADA) protects.  See id., at 305a, 314a, 324a.  The Commission summarily affirmed the Division’s no-probable-cause finding.  See id., at 326a–331a.

															The Court concludes that “the Commission’s consideration of Phillips’ religious objection did not accord with its treatment of [the other bakers’] objections.”  Ante, at 15.  See also ante, at 5–7 (Gorsuch, J., concurring).  But the cases the Court aligns are hardly comparable.  The bakers would have refused to make a cake with Jack’s requested message for any customer, regardless of his or her religion.  And the bakers visited by Jack would have sold him any baked goods they would have sold anyone else.  The bakeries’ refusal to make Jack cakes of a kind they would not make for any customer scarcely resembles Phillips’ refusal to serve Craig and Mullins: Phillips would not sell to Craig and Mullins, for no reason other than their sexual orientation, a cake of the kind he regularly sold to others.  When a couple contacts a bakery for a wedding cake, the product they are seeking is a cake celebrating their wedding—not a cake celebrating heterosexual weddings or same-sex weddings—and that is the service Craig and Mullins were denied.  Cf. ante, at 3–4, 9–10 (Gorsuch, J., concurring).  Colorado, the Court does not gainsay, prohibits precisely the discrimination Craig and Mullins encountered.  See supra, at 1.  Jack, on the other hand, suffered no service refusal on the basis of his religion or any other protected characteristic.  He was treated as any other customer would have been treated—no better, no worse.[3]

															The fact that Phillips might sell other cakes and cookies to gay and lesbian customers[4] was irrelevant to the issue Craig and Mullins’ case presented.  What matters is that Phillips would not provide a good or service to a same-sex couple that he would provide to a heterosexual couple.  In contrast, the other bakeries’ sale of other goods to Christian customers was relevant: It shows that there were no goods the bakeries would sell to a non-Christian customer that they would refuse to sell to a Christian customer.  Cf. ante, at 15.

															Nor was the Colorado Court of Appeals’ “difference in treatment of these two instances . . . based on the government’s own assessment of offensiveness.”  Ante, at 16.  Phillips declined to make a cake he found offensive where the offensiveness of the product was determined solely by the identity of the customer requesting it.  The three other bakeries declined to make cakes where their objection to the product was due to the demeaning message the requested product would literally display.  As the Court recognizes, a refusal “to design a special cake with words or images . . . might be different from a refusal to sell any cake at all.”  Ante, at 2.[5]  The Colorado Court of Appeals did not distinguish Phillips and the other three bakeries based simply on its or the Division’s finding that messages in the cakes Jack requested were offensive while any message in a cake for Craig and Mullins was not.  The Colorado court distinguished the cases on the ground that Craig and Mullins were denied service based on an aspect of their identity that the State chose to grant vigorous protection from discrimination.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 20a, n. 8 (“The Division found that the bakeries did not refuse [Jack’s] request because of his creed, but rather because of the offensive nature of the requested message. . . . [T]here was no evidence that the bakeries based their decisions on [Jack’s] religion . . . [whereas Phillips] discriminat[ed] on the basis of sexual orientation.”).  I do not read the Court to suggest that the Colorado Legislature’s decision to include certain protected characteristics in CADA is an impermissible government prescription of what is and is not offensive.  Cf. ante, at 9–10.  To repeat, the Court affirms that “Colorado law can protect gay persons, just as it can protect other classes of individuals, in acquiring whatever products and services they choose on the same terms and conditions as are offered to other members of the public.”  Ante, at 10.

															II

															Statements made at the Commission’s public hearings on Phillips’ case provide no firmer support for the Court’s holding today.  Whatever one may think of the statements in historical context, I see no reason why the comments of one or two Commissioners should be taken to overcome Phillips’ refusal to sell a wedding cake to Craig and Mullins.  The proceedings involved several layers of independent decisionmaking, of which the Commission was but one.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 5a–6a.  First, the Division had to find probable cause that Phillips violated CADA.  Second, the ALJ entertained the parties’ cross-motions for summary judgment.  Third, the Commission heard Phillips’ appeal.  Fourth, after the Commission’s ruling, the Colorado Court of Appeals considered the case de novo.  What prejudice infected the determinations of the adjudicators in the case before and after the Commission?  The Court does not say.  Phillips’ case is thus far removed from the only precedent upon which the Court relies, Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah,

508 U. S. 520 (1993), where the government action that violated a principle of religious neutrality implicated a sole decisionmaking body, the city council, see id., at 526–528.

															*  *  *

															For the reasons stated, sensible application of CADA to a refusal to sell any wedding cake to a gay couple should occasion affirmance of the Colorado Court of Appeals’ judgment.  I would so rule.
Notes
1
 As Justice Thomas observes, the Court does not hold that wedding cakes are speech or expression entitled to
 
First Amendment protection.  See ante, at 1 (opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment).  Nor could it, consistent with our
 
First Amendment precedents.  Justice Thomas acknowledges that for conduct to constitute protected expression, the conduct must be reasonably understood by an observer to be communicative.  Ante, at 4 (citing Clark v. Community for Creative Non-Violence,

468 U. S. 288, 294 (1984)).  The record in this case is replete with Jack Phillips’ own views on the messages he believes his cakes convey.  See ante, at 5–6 (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (describing how Phillips “considers” and “sees” his work).  But Phillips submitted no evidence showing that an objective observer understands a wedding cake to convey a message, much less that the observer understands the message to be the baker’s, rather than the marrying couple’s.  Indeed, some in the wedding industry could not explain what message, or whose, a wedding cake conveys.  See Charsley, Interpretation and Custom: The Case of the Wedding Cake, 22 Man 93, 100–101 (1987) (no explanation of wedding cakes’ symbolism was forthcoming “even amongst those who might be expected to be the experts”); id., at 104–105 (the cake cutting tradition might signify “the bride and groom . . . as appropriating the cake” from the bride’s parents).  And Phillips points to no case in which this Court has suggested the provision of a baked good might be expressive conduct.  Cf. ante, at 7, n. 2 (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment); Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Group of Boston, Inc.,

515 U. S. 557, 568–579 (1995) (citing previous cases recognizing parades to be expressive); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc.,

501 U. S. 560, 565 (1991) (noting precedents suggesting nude dancing is expressive conduct); Spence v. Washington,

418 U. S. 405, 410 (1974) (observing the Court’s decades-long recognition of the symbolism of flags). 

2
 The record provides no ideological explanation for the bakeries’ refusals.  Cf. ante, at 1–2, 9, 11 (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (describing Jack’s requests as offensive to the bakers’ “secular” convictions). 

3
 Justice Gorsuch argues that the situations “share all legally sa-lient features.”  Ante, at 4 (concurring opinion).  But what criticallydifferentiates them is the role the customer’s “statutorily protected trait,” ibid., played in the denial of service.  Change Craig and Mullins’ sexual orientation (or sex), and Phillips would have provided the cake.  Change Jack’s religion, and the bakers would have been no more willing to comply with his request.  The bakers’ objections to Jack’s cakes had nothing to do with “religious opposition to same-sex weddings.”  Ante, at 6 (Gorsuch, J., concurring).  Instead, the bakers simply refused to make cakes bearing statements demeaning to people protected by CADA.  With respect to Jack’s second cake, in particular, where he requested an image of two groomsmen covered by a red “X” and the lines “God loves sinners” and “While we were yet sinners Christ died for us,” the bakers gave not the slightest indication that religious words, rather than the demeaning image, prompted the objection.  See supra, at 3.  Phillips did, therefore, discriminate because of sexual orientation; the other bakers did not discriminate because of religious belief; and the Commission properly found discrimination in one case but not the other.  Cf. ante, at 4–6 (Gorsuch, J., concurring). 

4
 But see ante, at 7 (majority opinion) (acknowledging that Phillips refused to sell to a lesbian couple cupcakes for a celebration of their union). 

5
 The Court undermines this observation when later asserting that the treatment of Phillips, as compared with the treatment of the other three bakeries, “could reasonably be interpreted as being inconsistent as to the question of whether speech is involved.”  Ante, at 15.  But recall that, while Jack requested cakes with particular text inscribed, Craig and Mullins were refused the sale of any wedding cake at all.  They were turned away before any specific cake design could be discussed.  (It appears that Phillips rarely, if ever, produces wedding cakes with words on them—or at least does not advertise such cakes.  See Masterpiece Cakeshop, Wedding, http://www.masterpiececakes.com/ wedding-cakes (as last visited June 1, 2018) (gallery with 31 wedding cake images, none of which exhibits words).)  The Division and the Court of Appeals could rationally and lawfully distinguish between a case involving disparaging text and images and a case involving a wedding cake of unspecified design.  The distinction is not between a cake with text and one without, see ante, at 8–9 (Gorsuch, J., concurring); it is between a cake with a particular design and one whose form was never even discussed. 


