::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-045
::decision_cite:: 16-1466
::decision_name::  Janus v. AFSCME
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–1466

															_________________

															MARK JANUS, PETITIONER v. AMERICAN FEDER- ATION OF STATE, COUNTY, AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES, COUNCIL 31, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the seventh circuit

															[June 27, 2018]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and Justice Sotomayor join,  dissenting.

															For over 40 years, Abood v. Detroit Bd. of Ed.,

431 U. S. 209 (1977), struck a stable balance between public employees’
 
First Amendment rights and government entities’ interests in running their workforces as they thought proper.  Under that decision, a government entity could require public employees to pay a fair share of the cost that a union incurs when negotiating on their behalf over terms of employment.  But no part of that fair-share payment could go to any of the union’s political or ideological activities.

															That holding fit comfortably with this Court’s general framework for evaluating claims that a condition of public employment violates the
 
First Amendment.  The Court’s decisions have long made plain that government entities have substantial latitude to regulate their employees’ speech—especially about terms of employment—in the interest of operating their workplaces effectively.  Abood allowed governments to do just that.  While protecting public employees’ expression about non-workplace matters, the decision enabled a government to advance important managerial interests—by ensuring the presence of an exclusive employee representative to bargain with.  Far from an “anomaly,” ante, at 7, the Abood regime was a paradigmatic example of how the government can regulate speech in its capacity as an employer.

															Not any longer.  Today, the Court succeeds in its 6-year campaign to reverse Abood.  See Friedrichs v. California Teachers Assn., 578 U. S. ___ (2016) (per curiam); Harris v. Quinn, 573 U. S. ___ (2014); Knox v. Service Employees,

567 U. S. 298 (2012).  Its decision will have large-scale consequences.  Public employee unions will lose a secure source of financial support.  State and local governments that thought fair-share provisions furthered their interests will need to find new ways of managing their workforces.  Across the country, the relationships of public employees and employers will alter in both predictable and wholly unexpected ways.

															Rarely if ever has the Court overruled a decision—let alone one of this import—with so little regard for the usual principles of stare decisis.  There are no special justifications for reversing Abood.  It has proved workable.  No recent developments have eroded its underpinnings.  And it is deeply entrenched, in both the law and the real world.  More than 20 States have statutory schemes built on the decision.  Those laws underpin thousands of ongoing contracts involving millions of employees.  Reliance interests do not come any stronger than those surrounding Abood.  And likewise, judicial disruption does not get any greater than what the Court does today.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															I begin with Abood, the 41-year-old precedent the majority overrules.  That case involved a union that had been certified as the exclusive representative of Detroit’s public school teachers.  The union’s collective-bargaining agreement with the city included an “agency shop” clause, which required teachers who had not joined the union to pay it “a service charge equal to the regular dues required of [u]nion members.”  Abood, 431 U. S., at 212.  A group of non-union members sued over that clause, arguing that it violated the
 
First Amendment.

															In considering their challenge, the Court canvassed the purposes of the “agency shop” clause.  It was rooted, the Court understood, in the “principle of exclusive union representation”—a “central element” in “industrial relations” since the New Deal.  Id., at 220.  Significant benefits, the Court explained, could derive from the “designation of a single [union] representative” for all similarly situated employees in a workplace.  Ibid.  In particular, such arrangements: “avoid[ ] the confusion that would result from attempting to enforce two or more agreements specifying  different terms and conditions of employment”; “prevent[ ] inter-union rivalries from creating dissension within the work force”; “free[ ] the employer from the possibility of facing conflicting demands from different unions”; and “permit[ ] the employer and a single union to reach agreements and settlements that are not subject to attack from rival labor organizations.”  Id., at 220–221.  As proof, the Court pointed to the example of exclusive-representation arrangements in the private-employment sphere: There, Congress had long thought that such schemes would promote “peaceful labor relations” and “labor stability.”  Id., at 219, 229.  A public employer like Detroit, the Court believed, could reasonably make the same calculation.

															But for an exclusive-bargaining arrangement to work, such an employer often thought, the union needed adequate funding.  Because the “designation of a union as exclusive representative carries with it great responsibilities,” the Court reasoned, it inevitably also entails substantial costs.  Id., at 221.  “The tasks of negotiating and administering a collective-bargaining agreement and representing the interests of employees in settling disputes and processing grievances are continuing and difficult ones.”  Ibid.  Those activities, the Court noted, require the “expenditure of much time and money”—for example, payment for the “services of lawyers, expert negotiators, economists, and a research staff.”  Ibid.  And there is no way to confine the union’s services to union members alone (and thus to trim costs) because unions must by law fairly represent all employees in a given bargaining unit—union members and non-members alike.  See ibid.

															With all that in mind, the Court recognized why both a government entity and its union bargaining partner would gravitate toward an agency-fee clause.  Those fees, the Court reasoned, “distribute fairly the cost” of collective bargaining “among those who benefit”—that is, all employees in the work unit.  Id., at 222.  And they “counteract[ ] the incentive that employees might otherwise have to become ‘free riders.’ ”  Ibid.  In other words, an agency-fee provision prevents employees from reaping all the “benefits of union representation”—higher pay, a better retirement plan, and so forth—while leaving it to others to bear the costs.  Ibid.  To the Court, the upshot was clear: A government entity could reasonably conclude that such a clause was needed to maintain the kind of exclusive bargaining arrangement that would facilitate peaceful and stable labor relations.

															But the Court acknowledged as well the “
 
First Amendment interests” of dissenting employees.  Ibid.  It recognized that some workers might oppose positions the union takes in collective bargaining, or even “unionism itself.”  Ibid.  And still more, it understood that unions often advance “political and ideological” views outside the  collective-bargaining context—as when they “contribute to political candidates.”  Id., at 232, 234.  Employees might well object to the use of their money to support such “ideological causes.”  Id., at 235.

															So the Court struck a balance, which has governed this area ever since.  On the one hand, employees could be required to pay fees to support the union in “collective bargaining, contract administration, and grievance adjustment.”  Id., at 225–226.  There, the Court held, the “important government interests” in having a stably  funded bargaining partner justify “the impingement upon” public employees’ expression.  Id., at 225.  But on the other hand, employees could not be compelled to fund the union’s political and ideological activities.  Outside the collective-bargaining sphere, the Court determined, an employee’s
 
First Amendment rights defeated any conflicting government interest.  See id., at 234–235.

															II

															Unlike the majority, I see nothing “questionable” about Abood’s analysis.  Ante, at 7 (quoting Harris, 573 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17)).  The decision’s account of why some government entities have a strong interest in agency fees (now often called fair-share fees) is fundamentally sound.  And the balance Abood struck between public employers’ interests and public employees’ expression is right at home in
 
First Amendment doctrine.

															A

															Abood’s reasoning about governmental interests has three connected parts.  First, exclusive representation arrangements benefit some government entities because they can facilitate stable labor relations.  In particular, such arrangements eliminate the potential for inter-union conflict and streamline the process of negotiating terms of employment.  See 431 U. S., at 220–221.  Second, the government may be unable to avail itself of those benefits unless the single union has a secure source of funding.  The various tasks involved in representing employees cost money; if the union doesn’t have enough, it can’t be an effective employee representative and bargaining partner.  See id., at 221.  And third, agency fees are often needed to ensure such stable funding.  That is because without those fees, employees have every incentive to free ride on the union dues paid by others.  See id., at 222.

															The majority does not take issue with the first point.  See ante, at 33 (It is “not disputed that the State may require that a union serve as exclusive bargaining agent for its employees” in order to advance the State’s “interests as an employer”).  The majority claims that the second point never appears in Abood, but is willing to assume it for the sake of argument.  See ante, at 31–32; but see Abood, 431 U. S., at 221 (The tasks of an exclusive representative “often entail expenditure of much time and money”).  So the majority stakes everything on the third point—the conclusion that maintaining an effective system of exclusive representation often entails agency fees.  Ante, at 12 (It “is simply not true” that exclusive representation and agency fees are “inextricably linked”); see ante, at 14.

															But basic economic theory shows why a government would think that agency fees are necessary for exclusive representation to work.  What ties the two together, as Abood recognized, is the likelihood of free-riding when fees are absent.  Remember that once a union achieves  exclusive-representation status, the law compels it to fairly represent all workers in the bargaining unit, whether or not they join or contribute to the union.  See supra, at 4.  Because of that legal duty, the union cannot give special advantages to its own members.  And that in turn creates a collective action problem of nightmarish proportions.  Everyone—not just those who oppose the union, but also those who back it—has an economic incentive to withhold dues; only altruism or loyalty—as against financial self-interest—can explain why an employee would pay the union for its services.  And so emerged Abood’s rule allowing fair-share agreements: That rule ensured that a union would receive sufficient funds, despite its legally imposed disability, to effectively carry out its duties as exclusive representative of the government’s employees.

															The majority’s initial response to this reasoning is  simply to dismiss it.  “[F]ree rider arguments,” the majority pronounces, “are generally insufficient to overcome
 
First Amendment objections.”  Ante, at 13 (quoting Knox, 567 U. S., at 311).  “To hold otherwise,” it continues, “would have startling consequences” because “[m]any private groups speak out” in ways that will “benefit[ ] nonmembers.”  Ante, at 13.  But that disregards the defining characteristic of this free-rider argument—that unions, unlike those many other private groups, must serve members and non-members alike.  Groups advocating for “senior citizens or veterans” (to use the majority’s examples) have no legal duty to provide benefits to all those individuals: They can spur people to pay dues by conferring all kinds of special advantages on their dues-paying members.  Unions are—by law—in a different position, as this Court has long recognized.  See, e.g., Machinists v. Street,

367 U. S. 740, 762 (1961).  Justice Scalia, responding to the same argument as the majority’s, may have put the point best.  In a way that is true of no other private group, the “law requires the union to carry” non-members—“indeed, requires the union to go out of its way to benefit [them], even at the expense of its other interests.”  Lehnert v. Ferris Faculty Assn.,

500 U. S. 507, 556 (1991) (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).  That special feature was what justified Abood: “Where the state imposes upon the union a duty to deliver services, it may permit the union to demand reimbursement for them.”  500 U. S., at 556.

															The majority’s fallback argument purports to respond to the distinctive position of unions, but still misses Abood’s economic insight.  Here, the majority delivers a four-page exegesis on why unions will seek to serve as an exclusive bargaining representative even “if they are not given agency fees.”  Ante, at 14; see ante, at 14–17.  The gist of the account is that “designation as the exclusive representative confers many benefits,” which outweigh the costs of providing services to non-members.  Ante, at 15.  But that response avoids the key question, which is whether unions without agency fees will be able to (not whether they will want to) carry on as an effective exclusive representative.  And as to that question, the majority again fails to reckon with how economically rational actors behave—in public as well as private workplaces.  Without a fair-share agreement, the class of union non-members spirals upward.  Employees (including those who love the union) realize that they can get the same benefits even if they let their memberships expire.  And as more and more stop paying dues, those left must take up the financial slack (and anyway, begin to feel like suckers)—so they too quit the union.  See Ichniowski & Zax, Right-to-Work Laws, Free Riders, and Unionization in the Local Public Sector, 9 J. Labor Economics 255, 257 (1991).[1]  And when the vicious cycle finally ends, chances are that the union will lack the resources to effectively perform the responsibilities of an exclusive representative—or, in the worst case, to perform them at all.  The result is to frustrate the interests of every government entity that thinks a strong exclusive-representation scheme will promote stable labor relations.

															Of course, not all public employers will share that view.  Some would rather not bargain with an exclusive representative.  Others would prefer that representative to be poorly funded—to serve more as a front than an effectual bargaining partner.  But as reflected in the number of fair-share statutes and contracts across the Nation, see supra, at 2, many government entities think that effective exclusive representation makes for good labor relations—and recognize, just as Abood did, that representation of that kind often depends on agency fees.  See, e.g., Harris, 573 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 24) (Kagan, J., dissenting) (describing why Illinois thought that bargaining with an adequately funded exclusive representative of in-home caregivers would enable the State to better serve its dis- abled citizens).  Abood respected that state interest; today’s majority fails even to understand it.  Little wonder that the majority’s
 
First Amendment analysis, which involves assessing the government’s reasons for imposing agency fees, also comes up short.

															B

															1

															In many cases over many decades, this Court has addressed how the
 
First Amendment applies when the government, acting not as sovereign but as employer, limits its workers’ speech.  Those decisions have granted substantial latitude to the government, in recognition of its significant interests in managing its workforce so as to best serve the public.  Abood fit neatly with that caselaw, in both reasoning and result.  Indeed, its reversal today creates a significant anomaly—an exception, applying to union fees alone, from the usual rules governing public employees’ speech.

															“Time and again our cases have recognized that the Government has a much freer hand” in dealing with its employees than with “citizens at large.”  NASA v. Nelson,

562 U. S. 134, 148 (2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).  The government, we have stated, needs to run “as effectively and efficiently as possible.”  Engquist v. Oregon Dept. of Agriculture,

553 U. S. 591, 598 (2008) (internal quotation marks omitted).  That means it must be able, much as a private employer is, to manage its workforce as it thinks fit.  A public employee thus must submit to “certain limitations on his or her freedom.”  Garcetti v. Ceballos,

547 U. S. 410, 418 (2006).  Government workers, of course, do not wholly “lose their constitutional rights when they accept their positions.”  Engquist, 553 U. S., at 600.  But under our precedent, their rights often yield when weighed “against the realities of the employment context.”  Ibid.  If it were otherwise—if every employment decision were to “bec[o]me a constitutional matter”—“the Government could not function.”  NASA, 562 U. S., at 149 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Those principles apply with full force when public  employees’ expressive rights are at issue.  As we have explained: “Government employers, like private employers, need a significant degree of control over their employees’ words” in order to “efficient[ly] provi[de] public services.”  Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 418.  Again, significant control does not mean absolute authority.  In particular, the Court has guarded against government efforts to “leverage the employment relationship” to shut down its employees’ speech as private citizens.  Id., at 419.  But when the government imposes speech restrictions relating to workplace operations, of the kind a private employer also would, the Court reliably upholds them.  See, e.g., id., at 426; Connick v. Myers,

461 U. S. 138, 154 (1983).

															In striking the proper balance between employee speech rights and managerial interests, the Court has long applied a test originating in Pickering v. Board of Ed. of Township High School Dist. 205, Will Cty.,

391 U. S. 563 (1968).  That case arose out of an individual employment action: the firing of a public school teacher.  As we later described the Pickering inquiry, the Court first asks whether the employee “spoke as a citizen on a matter of public concern.”  Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 418.  If she did not—but rather spoke as an employee on a workplace matter—she has no “possibility of a
 
First Amendment claim”: A public employer can curtail her speech just as a private one could.  Ibid.  But if she did speak as a citizen on a public matter, the public employer must demonstrate “an adequate justification for treating the employee differently from any other member of the general public.”  Ibid.  The government, that is, needs to show that legitimate workplace interests lay behind the speech regulation.

															Abood coheres with that framework.  The point here is not, as the majority suggests, that Abood is an overt, one-to-one “application of Pickering.”  Ante, at 26.  It is not.  Abood related to a municipality’s labor policy, and so the Court looked to prior cases about unions, not to Pickering’s analysis of an employee’s dismissal.  (And truth be told, Pickering was not at that time much to look at: What the Court now thinks of as the two-step Pickering test, as the majority’s own citations show, really emerged from Garcetti and Connick—two cases post-dating Abood.  See ante, at 22.)[2]  But Abood and Pickering raised variants of the same basic issue: the extent of the government’s authority to make employment decisions affecting expression.  And in both, the Court struck the same basic balance, enabling the government to curb speech when—but only when—the regulation was designed to protect its managerial interests.  Consider the parallels:

															Like Pickering, Abood drew the constitutional line by analyzing the connection between the government’s managerial interests and different kinds of expression.  The Court first discussed the use of agency fees to subsidize the speech involved in “collective bargaining, contract administration, and grievance adjustment.”  431 U. S., at 225–226.  It understood that expression (really, who would not?) as intimately tied to the workplace and employment relationship.  The speech was about “working conditions, pay, discipline, promotions, leave, vacations, and terminations,” Borough of Duryea v. Guarnieri,

564 U. S. 379, 391 (2011); the speech occurred (almost always) in the workplace; and the speech was directed (at least mainly) to the employer.  As noted earlier, Abood described the managerial interests of employers in channeling all that speech through a single union.  See 431 U. S., at 220–222, 224–226; supra, at 3.  And so Abood allowed the government to mandate fees for collective bargaining—just as Pickering permits the government to regulate employees’ speech on similar workplace matters.  But still, Abood realized that compulsion could go too far.  The Court barred the use of fees for union speech supporting political candidates or “ideological causes.”  431 U. S., at 235.  That speech, it understood, was “unrelated to [the union’s] duties as exclusive bargaining representative,” but instead was directed at the broader public sphere.  Id., at 234.  And for that reason, the Court saw no legitimate managerial interests in compelling its subsidization.  The employees’
 
First Amendment claims would thus prevail—as, again, they would have under Pickering.

															Abood thus dovetailed with the Court’s usual attitude in 
 
First Amendment cases toward the regulation of public employees’ speech.  That attitude is one of respect—even solicitude—for the government’s prerogatives as an employer.  So long as the government is acting as an employer—rather than exploiting the employment relationship for other ends—it has a wide berth, comparable to that of a private employer.  And when the regulated expression concerns the terms and conditions of employment—the very stuff of the employment relationship—the government really cannot lose.  There, managerial interests are obvious and strong.  And so government employees are . . . just employees, even though they work for the government.  Except that today the government does lose, in a first for the law.  Now, the government can constitutionally adopt all policies regulating core workplace speech in pursuit of managerial goals—save this single one.

															2

															The majority claims it is not making a special and unjustified exception.  It offers two main reasons for declining to apply here our usual deferential approach, as exemplified in Pickering, to the regulation of public employee speech.  First, the majority says, this case involves a “blanket” policy rather than an individualized employment decision, so Pickering is a “painful fit.”  Ante, at 23.  Second, the majority asserts, the regulation here involves compelling rather than restricting speech, so the pain gets sharper still.  See ante, at 24–25. And finally, the majority claims that even under the solicitous Pickering standard, the government should lose, because the speech here involves a matter of public concern and the government’s managerial interests do not justify its regulation.  See ante, at 27–31.  The majority goes wrong at every turn.

															First, this Court has applied the same basic approach whether a public employee challenges a general policy or an individualized decision.  Even the majority must concede that “we have sometimes looked to Pickering in considering general rules that affect broad categories of employees.”  Ante, at 23.  In fact, the majority cannot come up with any case in which we have not done so.  All it can muster is one case in which while applying the Pickering test to a broad rule—barring any federal employee from accepting any payment for any speech or article on any topic—the Court noted that the policy’s breadth would count against the government at the test’s second step.  See United States v. Treasury Employees,

513 U. S. 454 (1995).  Which is completely predictable.  The inquiry at that stage, after all, is whether the government has an employment-related interest in going however far it has gone—and in Treasury Employees, the government had indeed gone far.  (The Court ultimately struck down the rule because it applied to speech in which the government had no identifiable managerial interest.  See id., at 470, 477.)  Nothing in Treasury Employees suggests that the Court defers only to ad hoc actions, and not to general rules, about public employee speech.  That would be a perverse regime, given the greater regularity of rulemaking and the lesser danger of its abuse.  So I would wager a small fortune that the next time a general rule governing public employee speech comes before us, we will dust off Pickering.

															Second, the majority’s distinction between compelling and restricting speech also lacks force.  The majority posits that compelling speech always works a greater injury, and so always requires a greater justification.  See ante, at 8.  But the only case the majority cites for that reading of our precedent is possibly (thankfully) the most exceptional in our
 
First Amendment annals: It involved the state forcing children to swear an oath contrary to their religious beliefs.  See ibid. (quoting West Virginia Bd. of Ed. v. Barnette,

319 U. S. 624 (1943)).  Regulations challenged as compelling expression do not usually look anything like that—and for that reason, the standard
 
First Amendment rule is that the “difference between compelled speech and compelled silence” is “without constitutional significance.”  Riley v. National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc.,

487 U. S. 781, 796 (1988); see Wooley v. Maynard,

430 U. S. 705, 714 (1977) (referring to “[t]he right to speak and the right to refrain from speaking” as “complementary components” of the
 
First Amendment).  And if anything, the
 
First Amendment scales tip the opposite way when (as here) the government is not compelling actual speech, but instead compelling a subsidy that others will use for expression.  See Brief for Eugene Volokh et al. as Amici Curiae 4–5 (offering many examples to show that the
 
First Amendment “simply do[es] not guarantee that one’s hard-earned dollars will never be spent on speech one disapproves of”).[3]  So when a government mandates a speech subsidy from a public employee—here, we might think of it as levying a tax to support collective bargaining—it should get at least as much deference as when it restricts the employee’s speech.  As this case shows, the former may advance a managerial interest as well as the latter—in which case the government’s “freer hand” in dealing with its employees should apply with equal (if not greater) force.  NASA, 562 U. S., at 148.

															Third and finally, the majority errs in thinking that under the usual deferential approach, the government should lose this case.  The majority mainly argues here that, at Pickering’s first step, “union speech in collective bargaining” is a “matter of great public concern” because it “affect[s] how public money is spent” and addresses “other important matters” like teacher merit pay or tenure.  Ante, at 27, 29 (internal quotation marks omitted).  But to start, the majority misunderstands the threshold inquiry set out in Pickering and later cases.  The question is not, as the majority seems to think, whether the public is, or should be, interested in a government employee’s speech.  Instead, the question is whether that speech is about and directed to the workplace—as contrasted with the broader public square.  Treasury Employees offers the Court’s fullest explanation.  The Court held there that the government’s policy prevented employees from speaking as “citizen[s]” on “matters of public concern.”  513 U. S., at 466 (quoting Pickering, 391 U. S., at 568).  Why?  Because the speeches and articles “were addressed to a public audience, were made outside the workplace, and involved content largely unrelated to their Government employment.”  513 U. S., at 466; see id., at 465, 470 (repeating that analysis twice more).  The Court could not have cared less whether the speech at issue was “important.”  Ante, at 29.  It instead asked whether the speech was truly of the workplace—addressed to it, made in it, and (most of all) about it.

															Consistent with that focus, speech about the terms and conditions of employment—the essential stuff of collective bargaining—has never survived Pickering’s first step.  This Court has rejected all attempts by employees to make a “federal constitutional issue” out of basic “employment matters, including working conditions, pay, discipline, promotions, leave, vacations, and terminations.”  Guarnieri, 564 U. S., at 391; see Board of Comm’rs, Wabaunsee  Cty. v. Umbehr,

518 U. S. 668, 675 (1996) (stating that public employees’ “speech on merely private employment matters is unprotected”).  For that reason, even the Justices who originally objected to Abood conceded that the use of agency fees for bargaining on “economic issues” like “salaries and pension benefits” would not raise significant
 
First Amendment questions.  431 U. S., at 263, n. 16 (Powell, J., concurring in judgment).  Of course, most of those issues have budgetary consequences: They “affect[ ] how public money is spent.”  Ante, at 29.  And some raise important non-budgetary disputes; teacher merit pay is a good example, see ante, at 30.  But arguing about the terms of employment is still arguing about the terms of employment: The workplace remains both the context and the subject matter of the expression.  If all that speech really counted as “of public concern,” as the majority suggests, the mass of public employees’ complaints (about pay and benefits and workplace policy and such) would become “federal constitutional issue[s].”  Guarnieri, 564 U. S., at 391.  And contrary to decades’ worth of precedent, government employers would then have far less control over their workforces than private employers do.  See supra, at 9–11.

															Consider an analogy, not involving union fees: Suppose a government entity disciplines a group of (non-unionized) employees for agitating for a better health plan at various inopportune times and places.  The better health plan will of course drive up public spending; so according to the majority’s analysis, the employees’ speech satisfies Pickering’s “public concern” test.  Or similarly, suppose a public employer penalizes a group of (non-unionized) teachers who protest merit pay in the school cafeteria.  Once again, the majority’s logic runs, the speech is of “public concern,” so the employees have a plausible
 
First Amendment claim.  (And indeed, the majority appears to concede as much, by asserting that the results in these hypotheticals should turn on various “factual detail[s]” relevant to the interest balancing that occurs at the Pickering test’s second step.  Ante, at 32, n. 23.)  But in fact, this Court has always understood such cases to end at Pickering’s first step: If an employee’s speech is about, in, and directed to the workplace, she has no “possibility of a
 
First Amendment claim.”  Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 418; see supra, at 11.  So take your pick.  Either the majority is exposing government entities across the country to increased
 
First Amendment litigation and liability—and thus preventing them from regulating their workforces as private employers could.  Or else, when actual cases of this kind come around, we will discover that today’s majority has crafted a “unions only” carve-out to our employee-speech law.

															What’s more, the government should prevail even if the speech involved in collective bargaining satisfies Pickering’s first part.  Recall that the next question is whether the government has shown “an adequate justification for treating the employee differently from any other member of the general public.”  Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 418; supra, at 11.  That inquiry is itself famously respectful of government interests.  This Court has reversed the government only when it has tried to “leverage the employment relationship” to achieve an outcome unrelated to the workplace’s “effective functioning.”  Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 419; Rankin v. McPherson,

483 U. S. 378, 388 (1987).  Nothing like that is true here.  As Abood described, many government entities have found agency fees the best way to ensure a stable and productive relationship with an exclusive bargaining agent.  See 431 U. S., at 220–221, 224–226; supra, at 3–4.  And here, Illinois and many governmental amici have explained again how agency fees advance their workplace goals.  See Brief for State Respondents 12, 36; Brief for Governor Tom Wolf et al. as Amici Curiae 21–33.  In no other employee-speech case has this Court dismissed such work-related interests, as the majority does here.  See supra, at 6–9 (discussing the majority’s refusal to engage with the logic of the State’s position).  Time and again, the Court has instead respected and acceded to those interests—just as Abood did.    

															The key point about Abood is that it fit naturally with this Court’s consistent teaching about the permissibility of regulating public employees’ speech.  The Court allows a government entity to regulate that expression in aid of managing its workforce to effectively provide public services.  That is just what a government aims to do when it enforces a fair-share agreement.  And so, the key point about today’s decision is that it creates an unjustified hole in the law, applicable to union fees alone.  This case is sui generis among those addressing public employee speech—and will almost surely remain so.

															III

															But the worse part of today’s opinion is where the majority subverts all known principles of stare decisis.  The majority makes plain, in the first 33 pages of its decision, that it believes Abood was wrong.[4]  But even if that were true (which it is not), it is not enough.  “Respecting stare decisis means sticking to some wrong decisions.”  Kimble v. Marvel Entertainment, LLC, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 7).  Any departure from settled precedent (so the Court has often stated) demands a “special justification—over and above the belief that the precedent was wrongly decided.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 8) (internal quotation marks omitted); see, e.g., Arizona v. Rumsey,

467 U. S. 203, 212 (1984).  And the majority does not have anything close.  To the contrary: all that is “special” in this case—especially the massive reliance interests at stake—demands retaining Abood, beyond even the normal  precedent.

															Consider first why these principles about precedent are so important.  Stare decisis—“the idea that today’s Court should stand by yesterday’s decisions”—is “a foundation stone of the rule of law.”  Kimble, 576 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7) (quoting Michigan v. Bay Mills Indian Community, 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 15)).  It “promotes the evenhanded, predictable, and consistent development” of legal doctrine.  Payne v. Tennessee,

501 U. S. 808, 827 (1991).  It fosters respect for and reliance on judicial decisions.  See ibid.  And it “contributes to the actual and perceived integrity of the judicial process,” ibid., by ensuring that decisions are “founded in the law rather than in the proclivities of individuals,” Vasquez v. Hillery,

474 U. S. 254, 265 (1986).

															And Abood is not just any precedent: It is embedded in the law (not to mention, as I’ll later address, in the world) in a way not many decisions are.  Over four decades, this Court has cited Abood favorably many times, and has affirmed and applied its central distinction between the costs of collective bargaining (which the government can charge to all employees) and those of political activities (which it cannot).  See, e.g., Locke v. Karass,

555 U. S. 207, 213–214 (2009); Lehnert, 500 U. S., at 519; Teachers v. Hudson,

475 U. S. 292, 301–302 (1986); Ellis v. Railway Clerks,

466 U. S. 435, 455–457 (1984).  Reviewing those decisions not a decade ago, this Court—unanimously—called the Abood rule “a general
 
First Amendment principle.”  Locke, 555 U. S., at 213.  And indeed, the Court has relied on that rule when deciding cases involving compelled speech subsidies outside the labor sphere—cases today’s decision does not question.  See, e.g., Keller v. State Bar of Cal.,

496 U. S. 1, 9–17 (1990) (state bar fees); Board of Regents of Univ. of Wis. System v. Southworth,

529 U. S. 217, 230–232 (2000) (public university student fees); Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc.,

521 U. S. 457, 471–473 (1997) (commercial advertising assessments); see also n. 3, supra.

															Ignoring our repeated validation of Abood, the majority claims it has become “an outlier among our
 
First Amendment cases.”  Ante, at 42.  That claim fails most spectacularly for reasons already discussed: Abood coheres with the Pickering approach to reviewing regulation of public employees’ speech.  See supra, at 11–13.  Needing to stretch further, the majority suggests that Abood conflicts with “our political patronage decisions.”  Ante, at 44.  But in fact those decisions strike a balance much like Abood’s.  On the one hand, the Court has enabled governments to compel policymakers to support a political party, because that requirement (like fees for collective bargaining) can reasonably be thought to advance the interest in workplace effectiveness.  See Elrod v. Burns,

427 U. S. 347, 366–367 (1976); Branti v. Finkel,

445 U. S. 507, 517 (1980).  On the other hand, the Court has barred governments from extending that rule to non-policymaking employees because that application (like fees for political campaigns) can’t be thought to promote that interest, see Elrod, 427 U. S., at 366; the government is instead trying to “leverage the employment relationship” to achieve other goals, Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 419.  So all that the majority has left is Knox and Harris.  See ante, at 43.  Dicta in those recent decisions indeed began the assault on Abood that has culminated today.  But neither actually addressed the extent to which a public employer may regulate its own employees’ speech.  Relying on them is bootstrapping—and mocking stare decisis.  Don’t like a decision?  Just throw some gratuitous criticisms into a couple of opinions and a few years later point to them as “special justifications.”

															The majority is likewise wrong to invoke “workability” as a reason for overruling Abood.  Ante, at 38.  Does Abood require drawing a line?  Yes, between a union’s collective-bargaining activities and its political activities.  Is that line perfectly and pristinely “precis[e],” as the majority demands?  Ante, at 38.  Well, not quite that—but as exercises of constitutional linedrawing go, Abood stands well above average.  In the 40 years since Abood, this Court has had to resolve only a handful of cases raising questions about the distinction.  To my knowledge, the circuit courts are not divided on any classification issue; neither are they issuing distress signals of the kind that sometimes prompt the Court to reverse a decision.  See, e.g., Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015) (overruling precedent because of frequent splits and mass confusion).  And that tranquility is unsurprising: There may be some gray areas (there always are), but in the mine run of cases, everyone knows the difference between politicking and collective bargaining.  The majority cites some disagreement in two of the classification cases this Court decided—as if non-unanimity among Justices were something startling.  And it notes that a dissenter in one of those cases called the Court’s approach “malleable” and “not principled,” ante, at 39—as though those weren’t stock terms in dissenting vocabulary.  See, e.g., Murr v. Wisconsin, 582 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (Roberts, C. J., dissenting) (slip op., at 2); Dietz v. Bouldin, 579 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 1); Alabama Legislative Black Caucus v. Alabama, 575 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 13) (Scalia, J., dissenting).  As I wrote in Harris a few Terms ago: “If the kind of hand-wringing about blurry lines that the majority offers were enough to justify breaking with precedent, we might have to discard whole volumes of the U. S. Reports.”  573 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15).

															And in any event, one stare decisis factor—reliance—dominates all others here and demands keeping Abood.  Stare decisis, this Court has held, “has added force when the legislature, in the public sphere, and citizens, in the private realm, have acted in reliance on a previous decision.”  Hilton v. South Carolina Public Railways Comm’n,

502 U. S. 197, 202 (1991).  That is because overruling a decision would then “require an extensive legislative response” or “dislodge settled rights and expectations.”  Ibid.  Both will happen here: The Court today wreaks havoc on entrenched legislative and contractual  arrangements.

															Over 20 States have by now enacted statutes authorizing fair-share provisions.  To be precise, 22 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico—plus another two States for police and firefighter unions.  Many of those States have multiple statutory provisions, with variations for different categories of public employees.  See, e.g., Brief for State of California as Amicus Curiae 24–25.  Every one of them will now need to come up with new ways—elaborated in new statutes—to structure relations between government employers and their workers.  The majority responds, in a footnote no less, that this is of no proper concern to the Court.  See ante, at 47, n. 27.  But in fact, we have weighed heavily against “abandon[ing] our settled jurisprudence” that “[s]tate legislatures have relied upon” it and would have to “reexamine [and amend] their statutes” if it were overruled.  Allied-Signal, Inc. v. Director, Div. of Taxation,

504 U. S. 768, 785 (1992); Hilton, 502 U. S., at 203.

															Still more, thousands of current contracts covering millions of workers provide for agency fees.  Usually, this Court recognizes that “[c]onsiderations in favor of stare decisis are at their acme in cases involving property and contract rights.”  Payne, 501 U. S., at 828.  Not today.  The majority undoes bargains reached all over the country.[5]  It prevents the parties from fulfilling other commitments they have made based on those agreements.  It forces the parties—immediately—to renegotiate once-settled terms and create new tradeoffs.  It does so knowing that many of the parties will have to revise (or redo) multiple contracts simultaneously.  (New York City, for example, has agreed to agency fees in 144 contracts with 97 public-sector unions.  See Brief for New York City Municipal Labor Committee as Amicus Curiae 4.)  It does so knowing that those renegotiations will occur in an environment of legal uncertainty, as state governments scramble to enact new labor legislation.  See supra, at 23.  It does so with no real clue of what will happen next—of how its action will alter public-sector labor relations.  It does so even though the government services affected—policing, firefighting, teaching, transportation, sanitation (and more)—affect the quality of life of tens of millions of Americans.

															The majority asserts that no one should care much because the canceled agreements are “of rather short duration” and would “expire on their own in a few years’ time.”  Ante, at 45, 46.  But to begin with, that response ignores the substantial time and effort that state legislatures will have to devote to revamping their statutory schemes.  See supra, at 23.  And anyway, it misunderstands the nature of contract negotiations when the parties have a continuing relationship.  The parties, in renewing an old collective-bargaining agreement, don’t start on an empty page.  Instead, various “long-settled” terms—like fair-share provisions—are taken as a given.  Brief for Governor Tom Wolf et al. 11; see Brief for New York City Sergeants Benevolent Assn. as Amicus Curiae 18.  So the majority’s ruling does more than advance by a few years a future renegotiation (though even that would be significant).  In most cases, it commands new bargaining over how to replace a term that the parties never expected to change.  And not just new bargaining; given the interests at stake, complicated and possibly contentious bargaining as well.  See Brief for Governor Tom Wolf et al. 11.[6]

															The majority, though, offers another reason for not worrying about reliance: The parties, it says, “have been on notice for years regarding this Court’s misgivings about Abood.”  Ante, at 45.  Here, the majority proudly lays claim to its 6-year crusade to ban agency fees.  In Knox, the majority relates, it described Abood as an “anomaly.”  Ante, at 45 (quoting 567 U. S., at 311).  Then, in Harris, it “cataloged Abood’s many weaknesses.”  Ante, at 45.   Finally, in Friedrichs, “we granted a petition for certiorari asking us to” reverse Abood, but found ourselves equally divided.  Ante, at 45. “During this period of time,” the majority concludes, public-sector unions “must have understood that the constitutionality of [an agency-fee] provision was uncertain.”  Ibid.  And so, says the majority, they should have structured their affairs accordingly.

															But that argument reflects a radically wrong understanding of how stare decisis operates.  Justice Scalia once confronted a similar argument for “disregard[ing] reliance interests” and showed how antithetical it was to rule-of-law principles.  Quill Corp. v. North Dakota,

504 U. S. 298, 320 (1992) (concurring opinion).  He noted first what we always tell lower courts: “If a precedent of this Court has direct application in a case, yet appears to rest on reasons rejected in some other line of decisions, [they] should follow the case which directly controls, leaving to this Court the prerogative of overruling its own decisions.”  Id., at 321 (quoting Rodriguez de Quijas v. Shearson/ American Express, Inc.,

490 U. S. 477, 484 (1989);  some alterations omitted).  That instruction, Justice Scalia explained, was “incompatible” with an expectation that “private parties anticipate our overrulings.”  406 U. S., at 320.  He concluded: “[R]eliance upon a square, unabandoned holding of the Supreme Court is always justifiable reliance.”  Ibid.  Abood’s holding was square.  It was unabandoned before today.  It was, in other words, the law—however much some were working overtime to make it not.  Parties, both unions and governments, were thus justified in relying on it.  And they did rely, to an extent rare among our decisions.  To dismiss the overthrowing of their settled expectations as entailing no more than some “adjustments” and “unpleasant transition costs,” ante, at 47, is to trivialize stare decisis.

															IV

															There is no sugarcoating today’s opinion.  The majority overthrows a decision entrenched in this Nation’s law—and in its economic life—for over 40 years.  As a result, it prevents the American people, acting through their state and local officials, from making important choices about workplace governance.  And it does so by weaponizing the
 
First Amendment, in a way that unleashes judges, now and in the future, to intervene in economic and regulatory policy.

															Departures from stare decisis are supposed to be “exceptional action[s]” demanding “special justification,” Rumsey, 467 U. S., at 212—but the majority offers nothing like that here.  In contrast to the vigor of its attack on Abood, the majority’s discussion of stare decisis barely limps to the finish line.  And no wonder: The standard factors this Court considers when deciding to overrule a decision all cut one way.  Abood’s legal underpinnings have not eroded over time: Abood is now, as it was when issued, consistent with this Court’s
 
First Amendment law.  Abood provided a workable standard for courts to apply.  And Abood has generated enormous reliance interests.  The majority has overruled Abood for no exceptional or special reason, but because it never liked the decision.  It has overruled Abood because it wanted to.

															Because, that is, it wanted to pick the winning side in what should be—and until now, has been—an energetic policy debate.  Some state and local governments (and the constituents they serve) think that stable unions promote healthy labor relations and thereby improve the provision of services to the public.  Other state and local governments (and their constituents) think, to the contrary, that strong unions impose excessive costs and impair those services.  Americans have debated the pros and cons for many decades—in large part, by deciding whether to use fair-share arrangements.  Yesterday, 22 States were on one side, 28 on the other (ignoring a couple of in-betweeners).  Today, that healthy—that democratic—debate ends.  The majority has adjudged who should prevail.  Indeed, the majority is bursting with pride over what it has accomplished: Now those 22 States, it crows, “can follow the model of the federal government and 28 other States.”  Ante, at 47, n. 27.

															And maybe most alarming, the majority has chosen the winners by turning the
 
First Amendment into a sword, and using it against workaday economic and regulatory policy.  Today is not the first time the Court has wielded the
 
First Amendment in such an aggressive way.  See, e.g., National Institute of Family and Life Advocates v. Becerra, ante, p. ___ (invalidating a law requiring medical and counseling facilities to provide relevant information to users); Sorrell v. IMS Health Inc., 

564 U. S. 552 (2011) (striking down a law that restricted pharmacies from selling various data). And it threatens not to be the last.  Speech is everywhere—a part of every human activity (employment, health care, securities trading, you name it).  For that reason, almost all economic and regulatory policy affects or touches speech.  So the majority’s road runs long.  And at every stop are black-robed rulers overriding citizens’ choices.  The
 
First Amendment was meant for better things.  It was meant not to undermine but to protect democratic governance—including over the role of public-sector unions.
Notes
1
 The majority relies on statistics from the federal workforce (where agency fees are unlawful) to suggest that public employees do not act in accord with economic logic.  See ante, at 12.  But first, many fewer federal employees pay dues than have voted for a union to represent them, indicating that free-riding in fact pervades the federal sector.  See, e.g., R. Kearney & P. Mareschal, Labor Relations in the Public Sector 26 (5th ed. 2014).  And second, that sector is not typical of other public workforces.  Bargaining in the federal sphere is limited; most notably, it does not extend to wages and benefits.  See Fort Stewart Schools v. FLRA,

495 U. S. 641, 649 (1990).  That means union operating expenses are lower than they are elsewhere.  And the gap further widens because the federal sector uses large, often national, bargaining units that provide unions with economies of scale.  See Brief for International Brotherhood of Teamsters as Amicus Curiae 7.  For those reasons, the federal workforce is the wrong place to look for meaningful empirical evidence on the issues here. 

2
 For those reasons, it is not surprising that the “categorization schemes” in Abood and Pickering are not precisely coterminous.  Ante, at 25.  The two cases are fraternal rather than identical twins—both standing for the proposition that the government receives great deference when it regulates speech as an employer rather than as a sovereign.  See infra this page and 12–13. 

3
 That’s why this Court has blessed the constitutionality of compelled speech subsidies in a variety of cases beyond Abood, involving a variety of contexts beyond labor relations.  The list includes mandatory fees imposed on state bar members (for professional expression); university students (for campus events); and fruit processors (for generic advertising).  See Keller v. State Bar of Cal.,

496 U. S. 1, 14 (1990); Board of Regents of Univ. of Wis. System v. Southworth,

529 U. S. 217, 233 (2000); Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc.,

521 U. S. 457, 474 (1997); see also infra, at 20. 

4
 And then, after ostensibly turning to stare decisis, the majority spends another four pages insisting that Abood was “not well reasoned,” which is just more of the same.  Ante, at 38; see ante, at 35–38. 

5
 Indeed, some agency-fee provisions, if canceled, could bring down entire contracts because they lack severability clauses.  See ante, at 46 (noting that unions could have negotiated for that result); Brief for Governor Tom Wolf et al. as Amici Curiae 11. 

6
 In a single, cryptic sentence, the majority also claims that arguments about reliance “based on [Abood’s] clarity are misplaced” because Abood did not provide a “clear or easily applicable standard” to separate fees for collective bargaining from those for political activities.  Ante, at 45.  But to begin, the standard for separating those activities was clear and workable, as I have already shown.  See supra, at 21–22.  And in any event, the reliance Abood engendered was based not on the clarity of that line, but on the clarity of its holding that governments and unions could generally agree to fair-share arrangements. 


