::SCDB_caseID:: 2016-069
::decision_cite:: 16-240
::decision_name::  Weaver v. Massachusetts
::decision_year:: 2017
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–240

															_________________

															KENTEL MYRONE WEAVER, PETITIONER v. MASSACHUSETTS

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme judicial court of massachusetts

															[June 22, 2017]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Gorsuch joins, concurring in the judgment.

															This case calls for a straightforward application of the familiar standard for evaluating ineffective assistance of counsel claims.  Strickland v. Washington, 

466 U. S. 668,
687 (1984)
.  Weaver cannot meet that standard, and therefore his claim must be rejected.

															The
 
Sixth Amendment protects a criminal defendant’s right “to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence.”  That right is violated when (1) “counsel’s performance was deficient” in the relevant sense of the term and (2) “the deficient performance prejudiced the defense.”  Strickland, supra, at 687.  The prejudice requirement—which is the one at issue in this case—“arises from the very nature” of the right to effective representation: Counsel simply “cannot be ‘ineffective’ unless his mistakes have harmed the defense (or, at least, unless it is reasonably likely that they have).”  United States v. Gonzalez-Lopez,

548 U. S. 140,
147 (2006)
.  In other words, “a violation of the
 
Sixth Amendment right to effective representation is not ‘complete’ until the defendant is prejudiced.”  Ibid.
Strickland’s definition of prejudice is based on the reli-ability of the underlying proceeding.  “The benchmark for judging any claim of ineffectiveness must be whether counsel’s conduct so undermined the proper functioning of the adversarial process that the trial cannot be relied on as having produced a just result.”  466 U. S., at 686 (emphasis added); see United States v. Cronic,

466 U. S. 648,
658 (1984)
.  This is so because “[t]he purpose of the
 
Sixth Amendment guarantee of counsel is to ensure that a defendant has the assistance necessary to justify reliance on the outcome of the proceeding.”  Strickland, 466 U. S., at 691–692.  Accordingly, an attorney’s error “does not warrant setting aside the judgment of a criminal proceeding if the error had no effect on the judgment.”  Id., at 691.

															Weaver makes much of the Strickland Court’s statement that “the ultimate focus of inquiry must be on the fundamental fairness of the proceeding.”  Id., at 696.  But the very next sentence clarifies what the Court had in mind, namely, the reliability of the proceeding.  In that sentence, the Court explains that the proper concern—“[i]n every case”—is “whether, despite the strong presumption of reliability, the result of the particular proceeding is unreliable.”  Ibid.  In other words, the focus on reliability is consistent throughout the Strickland opinion.

															To show that a counsel’s error rendered a legal proceeding unreliable, a defendant ordinarily must demonstrate “a reasonable probability that, but for counsel’s unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different.”  Id., at 694.  In a challenge to a conviction, such as the one in this case, this means that the defendant must show “a reasonable probability that, absent the errors, the factfinder would have had a reasonable doubt respecting guilt.”  Id., at 695.

															The Court has relieved defendants of the obligation to make this affirmative showing in only a very narrow set of cases in which the accused has effectively been denied counsel altogether: These include the actual or constructive denial of counsel, state interference with counsel’s assistance, or counsel that labors under actual conflicts of interest.  Id., at 692; Cronic, 466 U. S., at 658–660.  Prejudice can be presumed with respect to these errors because they are “so likely to prejudice the accused that the cost of litigating their effect in a particular case is unjustified.”  Id., at 658; see Strickland, supra, at 692; Mickens v. Taylor,

535 U. S. 162,
175 (2002)
.

															In short, there are two ways of meeting the Strickland prejudice requirement.  A defendant must demonstrate either that the error at issue was prejudicial or that it belongs to the narrow class of attorney errors that are tantamount to a denial of counsel, for which an individualized showing of prejudice is unnecessary.

															Weaver attempts to escape this framework by stressing that the deprivation of the right to a public trial has been described as a “structural” error, but this is irrelevant under Strickland.  The concept of “structural error” comes into play when it is established that an error occurred at the trial level and it must be decided whether the error was harmless.  See Neder v. United States,

527 U. S. 1,
7 (1999)
; Arizona v. Fulminante,

499 U. S. 279
–310 (1991).  The prejudice prong of Strickland is entirely different.  It does not ask whether an error was harmless but whether there was an error at all, for unless counsel’s deficient performance prejudiced the defense, there was no
 
Sixth Amendment violation in the first place.  See Gonzalez-Lopez, supra, at 150 (even where an attorney’s defi-cient performance “pervades the entire trial,” “we do not allow reversal of a conviction for that reason without a showing of prejudice” because “the requirement of showing prejudice in ineffectiveness claims stems from the very definition of the right at issue”).  Weaver’s theory conflicts with Strickland because it implies that an attorney’s error can be prejudicial even if it “had no effect,” or only “some conceivable effect,” on the outcome of his trial.  Strickland, supra, at 691, 693.  That is precisely what Strickland rules out.

															To sum up, in order to obtain relief under Strickland, Weaver must show that the result of his trial was unreli-able.  He could do so by demonstrating a reasonable likelihood that his counsel’s error affected the verdict.  Alternatively, he could establish that the error falls within the very short list of errors for which prejudice is presumed.  Weaver has not attempted to make either argument, so his claim must be rejected.  I would affirm the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts on that ground.
													
