::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-010
::decision_cite:: 16-499
::decision_name::  Jesner v. Arab Bank, PLC
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–499

															_________________

															JOSEPH JESNER, et al., PETITIONERS v. ARAB BANK, PLC

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit

															[April 24, 2018]

															

															Justice Alito, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.

															Creating causes of action under the Alien Tort Statute against foreign corporate defendants would precipitate exactly the sort of diplomatic strife that the law was enacted to prevent.  As a result, I agree with the Court that we should not take that step, and I join Parts I, II–B–1, and II–C of the opinion of the Court.  I write separately to elaborate on why that outcome is compelled not only by “judicial caution,” ante, at 27 (majority opinion), but also by the separation of powers.

															I

															The ATS is a jurisdictional statute.  It provides that “[t]he district courts shall have original jurisdiction of any civil action by an alien for a tort only, committed in violation of the law of nations or a treaty of the United States.”

28 U. S. C. §1350.  By its terms, the ATS does not create any causes of action.

															In Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain,

542 U. S. 692 (2004)
, however, this Court nevertheless held that federal courts, exercising their authority in limited circumstances to make federal common law, may create causes of action that aliens may assert under the ATS.  That holding takes some explaining.

															According to Sosa, when the First Congress enacted the ATS in 1789, it assumed that the statute would “have practical effect the moment it became law” because the general common law “would provide a cause of action for [a] modest number of international law violations.”  Id., at 724.  That assumption, however, depended on the continued existence of the general common law.  And in 1938—a century and a half after Congress enacted the ATS—this Court rejected the “fallacy” underlying the general common law, declaring definitively that “[t]here is no federal general common law.”  Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,

304 U. S. 64, 78, 79 (1938)
.  That left the ATS in an awkward spot: Congress had not created any causes of action for the statute on the assumption that litigants would use those provided by the general common law, but now the general common law was no more.

															In Sosa, this Court did its best to resolve that problem.  “[I]t would be unreasonable to assume,” the Court explained, “that the First Congress would have expected federal courts to lose all capacity to recognize enforceable international norms simply because the [general] common law might lose some metaphysical cachet on the road to modern realism.”  542 U. S., at 730.  Although the general common law was gone, the Court concluded, federal courts could still exercise their authority to create so-called “federal common law” for those “ ‘few and restricted’ ” areas “in which Congress has given the courts the power to develop substantive law.”  Texas Industries, Inc. v. Radcliff Materials, Inc.,

451 U. S. 630, 640 (1981)
.  Sosa interpreted the ATS as conferring such authorization.

															As a result, Sosa held that federal courts, subject to certain conditions, may “recognize private causes of action [under the ATS] for certain torts in violation of the law of nations.”  542 U. S., at 724.  But before doing so, Sosa stressed, courts should follow a two-step process.  First, they should ensure that the contemplated cause of action reflects an international law norm that is “ ‘specific, universal and obligatory.’ ”  Id., at 732.  Second, if a suitable norm is identified, federal courts should decide whether there is any other reason to limit “the availability of relief.”  Id., at 733, n. 21.

															II

															For the reasons articulated by Justice Scalia in Sosa and by Justice Gorsuch today, I am not certain that Sosa was correctly decided.  See id., at 739–751 (Scalia, J., dissenting); post, at 2–5 (Gorsuch, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).  But even taking that decision on its own terms, this Court should not create causes of action under the ATS against foreign corporate defendants.  As part of Sosa’s second step, a court should decline to create a cause of action as a matter of federal common law where the result would be to further, not avoid, diplomatic strife.  Properly applied, that rule easily resolves the question presented by this case.[1]*

															Sosa interpreted the ATS to authorize the federal courts to create causes of action as a matter of federal common law.  We have repeatedly emphasized that “in fashioning federal [common law] principles to govern areas left open by Congress, our function is to effectuate congressional policy.”  United States v. Kimbell Foods, Inc.,

440 U. S. 715, 738 (1979)
.  Fidelity to congressional policy is not only prudent but necessary: Going beyond the bounds of Congress’s authorization would mean unconstitutionally usurping part of the “legislative Powers.”  U. S. Const., Art. I, §1.  Accordingly, the objective for courts in every case requiring the creation of federal common law must be “to find the rule that will best effectuate the federal policy.”  Textile Workers v. Lincoln Mills of Ala.,

353 U. S. 448
,  457 (1957).

															The ATS was meant to help the United States avoid diplomatic friction.  The First Congress enacted the law to provide a forum for adjudicating that “narrow set of violations of the law of nations” that, if left unaddressed, “threaten[ed] serious consequences” for the United States.  Sosa, 542 U. S., at 715; see also Brief for Professors of International Law et al. as Amici Curiae 7–12.  Specifically, the First Congress was concerned about offenses like piracy, violation of safe conducts, and infringement of the rights of ambassadors, each of which “if not adequately redressed could rise to an issue of war.”  Sosa, supra, at 715.  That threat was existentially terrifying for the young Nation.  See Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co.,

569 U. S. 108, 123
–124 (2013).  To minimize the danger, the First Congress enacted the ATS, “ensur[ing] that the United States could provide a forum for adjudicating such incidents” and thus helping the Nation avoid further diplomatic imbroglios.  Id., at 124; see ante, at 25 (majority opinion).

															Putting that objective together with the rules governing federal common law generally, the following principle emerges: Federal courts should decline to create federal common law causes of action under Sosa’s second step whenever doing so would not materially advance the ATS’s objective of avoiding diplomatic strife.  And applying that principle here, it is clear that federal courts should not create causes of action under the ATS against foreign corporate defendants.  All parties agree that customary international law does not require corporate liability as a general matter.  See Brief for Petitioners 30; Brief for Respondent 22; see also ante, at 17 (plurality opinion); post, at 3–4 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting).  But if customary international law does not require corporate liability, then declining to create it under the ATS cannot give other nations just cause for complaint against the United States.

															To the contrary, ATS suits against foreign corporations may provoke—and, indeed, frequently have provoked—exactly the sort of diplomatic strife inimical to the fundamental purpose of the ATS.  Some foreign states appear to interpret international law as foreclosing civil corporate liability for violations of the law of nations.  See Brief for Government of the United Kingdom et al. as Amici Curiae in Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., O. T. 2012, No. 10–1491, p. 14.  Creating ATS causes of action against foreign corporate defendants would put the United States at odds with these nations.  Even when states do not object to this sort of corporate liability as a legal matter, they may be concerned about ATS suits against their corporations for political reasons.  For example, Jordan considers this suit “a direct affront” to its sovereignty and one that “risks destabilizing Jordan’s economy and undercutting one of the most stable and productive alliances the United States has in the Middle East.”  Brief for Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan as Amicus Curiae 4.  Courting these sorts of problems—which seem endemic to ATS litigation—was the opposite of what the First Congress had in mind.

															In response, the dissent argues merely that any diplomatic friction “can be addressed with a tool more tailored to the source of the problem than a blanket ban on corporate liability.”  Post, at 19.  Even on its own terms, that argument is problematic: Many of the “more tailored” tools offered by the dissent will still be hotly litigated by ATS plaintiffs, and it may be years before incorrect initial decisions about their applicability can be reviewed by the courts of appeals.  See ante, at 11 (plurality opinion).

															In any event, the dissent misunderstands the relevant standard.  The question before us is whether the United States would be embroiled in fewer international controversies if we created causes of action under the ATS against foreign corporate defendants.  Unless corporate liability would actively decrease diplomatic disputes, we have no authority to act.  On that score, the dissent can only speculate that declining to create causes of action against foreign corporate defendants “might” lead to diplomatic friction.  Post, at 30.  But the dissent has no real-world examples to support its hunch, and that is not surprising; the ATS already goes further than any other statute in the world in granting aliens the right to sue civilly for violations of international law, especially in light of the many other avenues for relief available.  See ante, at 23 (plurality opinion).  It would be rather rich for any other nation to complain that the ATS does not go far enough.  Indeed, no country has.

															Finally, the dissent invokes “the considered judgment of the Executive Branch and Congress” that ATS suits against foreign corporations are “necessary ‘to help the United States avoid diplomatic friction.’ ”  Post, at 31, n. 13.  Tellingly, however, the dissent cannot muster a single source that actually supports that bold contention.  Instead, the dissent immediately retreats to two far more modest assertions.  First, the dissent observes that the Executive Branch has twice suggested that this Court should allow causes of action against corporate defendants under the ATS.  But both times the Executive Branch defended that perspective primarily under the first step of Sosa; here, however, we are dealing with Sosa’s second step, and with the risk of diplomatic friction in particular.  Second, the dissent also notes that the Executive Branch and Congress have each taken steps to hold corporations liable for certain acts like terrorism.  Post, at 31, n. 13.  That is, of course, true, but it is also entirely irrelevant.  Congress and the Executive Branch may be willing to trade off the risk of some diplomatic friction in exchange for the promotion of other objectives (such as “holding foreign corporations to account for certain egregious conduct,” ibid.).  That is their prerogative as the political branches.  But consistent with the separation of powers, we have neither the luxury nor the right to make such policy decisions ourselves.

															Creating causes of action under the ATS against foreign corporate defendants would be a no-win proposition.  Foreign corporate liability would not only fail to meaningfully advance the objectives of the ATS, but it would also lead to precisely those “serious consequences in international affairs” that the ATS was enacted to avoid.  Sosa, 542 U. S., at 715.  Under those circumstances, federal courts have a duty to refrain from acting.  Although that may make it more difficult for aliens to hold foreign corporations liable for human rights abuses, we have repeatedly rejected the view that the ATS was meant to transform the federal courts into forums for the litigation of all human rights suits.  See ante, at 8–9, 25–27 (majority opinion); Kiobel, 569 U. S., at 123–124; Sosa, supra, at 715–718.  Declining to extend the ATS to foreign corporate defendants is thus not about “[i]mmunizing corporations that violate human rights,” post, at 34, but rather about furthering the purpose that the ATS was actually meant to serve—avoiding diplomatic strife.
Notes
1
* Because this case involves a foreign corporation, we have no need to reach the question whether an alien may sue a United States corporation under the ATS.  And since such a suit may generally be brought in federal court based on diversity jurisdiction,

28 U. S. C. §1332(a)(2), it is unclear why ATS jurisdiction would be needed in that situation. 


