::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-021
::decision_cite:: 16-402
::decision_name::  Carpenter v. United States
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Kennedy
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–402

															_________________

															TIMOTHY IVORY CARPENTER, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[June 22, 2018]

															

															Justice Kennedy, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Alito join, dissenting.

															This case involves new technology, but the Court’s stark departure from relevant
 
Fourth Amendment precedents and principles is, in my submission, unnecessary and incorrect, requiring this respectful dissent.

															The new rule the Court seems to formulate puts needed, reasonable, accepted, lawful, and congressionally authorized criminal investigations at serious risk in serious cases, often when law enforcement seeks to prevent the threat of violent crimes.  And it places undue restrictions on the lawful and necessary enforcement powers exercised not only by the Federal Government, but also by law enforcement in every State and locality throughout the Nation.  Adherence to this Court’s longstanding precedents and analytic framework would have been the proper and prudent way to resolve this case.

															The Court has twice held that individuals have no
 
Fourth Amendment interests in business records which are possessed, owned, and controlled by a third party.  United States v. Miller,

425 U. S. 435 (1976); Smith v. Maryland,

442 U. S. 735 (1979).  This is true even when the records contain personal and sensitive information.  So when the Government uses a subpoena to obtain, for example, bank records, telephone records, and credit card statements from the businesses that create and keep these records, the Government does not engage in a search of the business’s customers within the meaning of the
 
Fourth Amendment.

															In this case petitioner challenges the Government’s right to use compulsory process to obtain a now-common kind of business record: cell-site records held by cell phone service providers.  The Government acquired the records through an investigative process enacted by Congress. Upon approval by a neutral magistrate, and based on the Government’s duty to show reasonable necessity, it authorizes the disclosure of records and information that are under the control and ownership of the cell phone service provider, not its customer.  Petitioner acknowledges that the Government may obtain a wide variety of business records using compulsory process, and he does not ask the Court to revisit its precedents.  Yet he argues that, under those same precedents, the Government searched his records when it used court-approved compulsory process to obtain the cell-site information at issue here.

															Cell-site records, however, are no different from the many other kinds of business records the Government has a lawful right to obtain by compulsory process.  Customers like petitioner do not own, possess, control, or use the records, and for that reason have no reasonable expectation that they cannot be disclosed pursuant to lawful compulsory process.

															The Court today disagrees.  It holds for the first time that by using compulsory process to obtain records of a business entity, the Government has not just engaged in an impermissible action, but has conducted a search of the business’s customer.  The Court further concludes that the search in this case was unreasonable and the Government needed to get a warrant to obtain more than six days of cell-site records.

															In concluding that the Government engaged in a search, the Court unhinges
 
Fourth Amendment doctrine from the property-based concepts that have long grounded the analytic framework that pertains in these cases.  In doing so it draws an unprincipled and unworkable line between cell-site records on the one hand and financial and telephonic records on the other.  According to today’s majority opinion, the Government can acquire a record of every credit card purchase and phone call a person makes over months or years without upsetting a legitimate expectation of privacy.  But, in the Court’s view, the Government crosses a constitutional line when it obtains a court’s approval to issue a subpoena for more than six days of cell-site records in order to determine whether a person was within several hundred city blocks of a crime scene.  That distinction is illogical and will frustrate principled application of the
 
Fourth Amendment in many routine yet vital law enforcement operations.

															It is true that the Cyber Age has vast potential both to expand and restrict individual freedoms in dimensions not contemplated in earlier times.  See Packingham v. North Carolina, 582 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2017) (slip op., at 4–6).  For the reasons that follow, however, there is simply no basis here for concluding that the Government interfered with information that the cell phone customer, either from a legal or commonsense standpoint, should have thought the law would deem owned or controlled by him.

															I

															Before evaluating the question presented it is helpful to understand the nature of cell-site records, how they are commonly used by cell phone service providers, and their proper use by law enforcement.

															When a cell phone user makes a call, sends a text message or e-mail, or gains access to the Internet, the cell phone establishes a radio connection to an antenna at a nearby cell site.  The typical cell site covers a more-or-less circular geographic area around the site.  It has three (or sometimes six) separate antennas pointing in different directions.  Each provides cell service for a different 120-degree (or 60-degree) sector of the cell site’s circular coverage area.  So a cell phone activated on the north side of a cell site will connect to a different antenna than a cell phone on the south side.

															Cell phone service providers create records each time a cell phone connects to an antenna at a cell site.  For a phone call, for example, the provider records the date, time, and duration of the call; the phone numbers making and receiving the call; and, most relevant here, the cell site used to make the call, as well as the specific antenna that made the connection.  The cell-site and antenna data points, together with the date and time of connection, are known as cell-site location information, or cell-site records.  By linking an individual’s cell phone to a particular 120- or 60-degree sector of a cell site’s coverage area at a particular time, cell-site records reveal the general location of the cell phone user.

															The location information revealed by cell-site records is imprecise, because an individual cell-site sector usually covers a large geographic area.  The FBI agent who offered expert testimony about the cell-site records at issue here testified that a cell site in a city reaches between a half mile and two miles in all directions.  That means a 60-degree sector covers between approximately one-eighth and two square miles (and a 120-degree sector twice that area).  To put that in perspective, in urban areas cell-site records often would reveal the location of a cell phone user within an area covering between around a dozen and several hundred city blocks.  In rural areas cell-site records can be up to 40 times more imprecise.  By contrast, a Global Positioning System (GPS) can reveal an individ- ual’s location within around 15 feet.

															Major cell phone service providers keep cell-site records for long periods of time.  There is no law requiring them to do so.  Instead, providers contract with their customers to collect and keep these records because they are valuable to the providers.  Among other things, providers aggregate the records and sell them to third parties along with other information gleaned from cell phone usage.  This data can be used, for example, to help a department store determine which of various prospective store locations is likely to get more foot traffic from middle-aged women who live in affluent zip codes.  The market for cell phone data is now estimated to be in the billions of dollars.  See Brief for Technology Experts as Amici Curiae 23.

															Cell-site records also can serve an important investigative function, as the facts of this case demonstrate.  Petitioner, Timothy Carpenter, along with a rotating group of accomplices, robbed at least six RadioShack and T-Mobile stores at gunpoint over a 2-year period.  Five of those robberies occurred in the Detroit area, each crime at least four miles from the last.  The sixth took place in Warren, Ohio, over 200 miles from Detroit.

															The Government, of course, did not know all of these details in 2011 when it began investigating Carpenter.  In April of that year police arrested four of Carpenter’s co-conspirators.  One of them confessed to committing nine robberies in Michigan and Ohio between December 2010 and March 2011.  He identified 15 accomplices who had participated in at least one of those robberies; named Carpenter as one of the accomplices; and provided Carpenter’s cell phone number to the authorities.  The suspect also warned that the other members of the conspiracy planned to commit more armed robberies in the immediate future.

															The Government at this point faced a daunting task.  Even if it could identify and apprehend the suspects, still it had to link each suspect in this changing criminal gang to specific robberies in order to bring charges and convict.  And, of course, it was urgent that the Government take all necessary steps to stop the ongoing and dangerous crime spree.

															Cell-site records were uniquely suited to this task.  The geographic dispersion of the robberies meant that, if Carpenter’s cell phone were within even a dozen to several hundred city blocks of one or more of the stores when the different robberies occurred, there would be powerful circumstantial evidence of his participation; and this would be especially so if his cell phone usually was not located in the sectors near the stores except during the robbery times.

															To obtain these records, the Government applied to federal magistrate judges for disclosure orders pursuant to §2703(d) of the Stored Communications Act.  That Act authorizes a magistrate judge to issue an order requiring disclosure of cell-site records if the Government demonstrates “specific and articulable facts showing that there are reasonable grounds to believe” the records “are relevant and material to an ongoing criminal investigation.”  18 U. S. C. §§2703(d), 2711(3).  The full statutory provision is set out in the Appendix, infra.

															From Carpenter’s primary service provider, MetroPCS, the Government obtained records from between December 2010 and April 2011, based on its understanding that nine robberies had occurred in that timeframe.  The Government also requested seven days of cell-site records from Sprint, spanning the time around the robbery in Warren, Ohio.  It obtained two days of records.

															These records confirmed that Carpenter’s cell phone was in the general vicinity of four of the nine robberies, including the one in Ohio, at the times those robberies occurred.

															II

															The first Clause of the
 
Fourth Amendment provides that “the right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated.”  The customary beginning point in any
 
Fourth Amendment search case is whether the Government’s actions constitute a “search” of the defendant’s person, house, papers, or effects, within the meaning of the constitutional provision.  If so, the next question is whether that search was reasonable.

															Here the only question necessary to decide is whether the Government searched anything of Carpenter’s when it used compulsory process to obtain cell-site records from Carpenter’s cell phone service providers.  This Court’s decisions in Miller and Smith dictate that the answer is no, as every Court of Appeals to have considered the question has recognized.  See United States v. Thompson, 866 F. 3d 1149 (CA10 2017); United States v. Graham, 824 F. 3d 421 (CA4 2016) (en banc); Carpenter v. United States, 819 F. 3d 880 (CA6 2016); United States v. Davis, 785 F. 3d 498 (CA11 2015) (en banc); In re Application  of U. S. for Historical Cell Site Data, 724 F. 3d 600  (CA5 2013).

															A

															Miller and Smith hold that individuals lack any protected
 
Fourth Amendment interests in records that are possessed, owned, and controlled only by a third party.  In Miller federal law enforcement officers obtained four months of the defendant’s banking records.  425 U. S., at 437–438.  And in Smith state police obtained records of the phone numbers dialed from the defendant’s home phone.  442 U. S., at 737.  The Court held in both cases that the officers did not search anything belonging to the defendants within the meaning of the
 
Fourth Amendment.  The defendants could “assert neither ownership nor possession” of the records because the records were created, owned, and controlled by the companies.  Miller, supra, at 440; see Smith, supra, at 741.  And the defendants had no reasonable expectation of privacy in information they “voluntarily conveyed to the [companies] and exposed to their employees in the ordinary course of business.”  Miller, supra, at 442; see Smith, 442 U. S., at 744.  Rather, the defendants “assumed the risk that the information would be divulged to police.”  Id., at 745.

															Miller and Smith have been criticized as being based on too narrow a view of reasonable expectations of privacy.  See, e.g., Ashdown, The
 
Fourth Amendment and the “Legitimate Expectation of Privacy,” 34 Vand. L. Rev. 1289, 1313–1316 (1981).  Those criticisms, however, are unwarranted.  The principle established in Miller and Smith is correct for two reasons, the first relating to a defendant’s attenuated interest in property owned by another, and the second relating to the safeguards inherent in the use of compulsory process.

															First, Miller and Smith placed necessary limits on the ability of individuals to assert
 
Fourth Amendment interests in property to which they lack a “requisite connection.”  Minnesota v. Carter,

525 U. S. 83, 99 (1998) (Kennedy, J., concurring).
 
Fourth Amendment rights, after all, are personal.  The Amendment protects “[t]he right of the people to be secure in their . . . persons, houses, papers, and effects”—not the persons, houses, papers, and effects of others.  (Emphasis added.)

															The concept of reasonable expectations of privacy, first announced in Katz v. United States,

389 U. S. 347 (1967), sought to look beyond the “arcane distinctions developed in property and tort law” in evaluating whether a person has a sufficient connection to the thing or place searched to assert
 
Fourth Amendment interests in it.  Rakas v. Illinois,

439 U. S. 128, 143 (1978).  Yet “property concepts” are, nonetheless, fundamental “in determining the presence or absence of the privacy interests protected by that Amendment.”  Id., at 143–144, n. 12.  This is so for at least two reasons.  First, as a matter of settled expectations from the law of property, individuals often have greater expectations of privacy in things and places that belong to them, not to others.  And second, the
 
Fourth Amendment’s protections must remain tethered to the text of that Amendment, which, again, protects only a person’s own “persons, houses, papers, and effects.”

															Katz did not abandon reliance on property-based concepts.  The Court in Katz analogized the phone booth used in that case to a friend’s apartment, a taxicab, and a hotel room.  389 U. S., at 352, 359.  So when the defendant “shu[t] the door behind him” and “pa[id] the toll,” id., at 352, he had a temporary interest in the space and a legitimate expectation that others would not intrude, much like the interest a hotel guest has in a hotel room, Stoner v. California,

376 U. S. 483 (1964), or an overnight guest has in a host’s home, Minnesota v. Olson,

495 U. S. 91 (1990).  The Government intruded on that space when it attached a listening device to the phone booth.  Katz, 389 U. S., at 348.  (And even so, the Court made it clear that the Government’s search could have been reasonable had there been judicial approval on a case-specific basis, which, of course, did occur here.  Id., at 357–359.)

															Miller and Smith set forth an important and necessary limitation on the Katz framework.  They rest upon the commonsense principle that the absence of property law analogues can be dispositive of privacy expectations.  The defendants in those cases could expect that the third-party businesses could use the records the companies collected, stored, and classified as their own for any number of business and commercial purposes.  The businesses were not bailees or custodians of the records, with a duty to hold the records for the defendants’ use.  The defendants could make no argument that the records were their own papers or effects.  See Miller, supra, at 440 (“the documents subpoenaed here are not respondent’s ‘private papers’ ”); Smith, supra, at 741 (“petitioner obviously cannot claim that his ‘property’ was invaded”).  The records were the business entities’ records, plain and simple.  The defendants had no reason to believe the records were owned or controlled by them and so could not assert a reasonable expectation of privacy in the records.

															The second principle supporting Miller and Smith is the longstanding rule that the Government may use compulsory process to compel persons to disclose documents and other evidence within their possession and control.  See United States v. Nixon,

418 U. S. 683, 709 (1974) (it is an “ancient proposition of law” that “the public has a right to every man’s evidence” (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted)).  A subpoena is different from a warrant in its force and intrusive power.  While a warrant allows the Government to enter and seize and make the examination itself, a subpoena simply requires the person to whom it is directed to make the disclosure.  A subpoena, moreover, provides the recipient the “opportunity to present objections” before complying, which further mitigates the intrusion.  Oklahoma Press Publishing Co. v. Walling,

327 U. S. 186, 195 (1946).

															For those reasons this Court has held that a subpoena for records, although a “constructive” search subject to
 
Fourth Amendment constraints, need not comply with the procedures applicable to warrants—even when challenged by the person to whom the records belong.  Id., at 202, 208.  Rather, a subpoena complies with the
 
Fourth Amendment’s reasonableness requirement so long as it is “ ‘sufficiently limited in scope, relevant in purpose, and specific in directive so that compliance will not be unreasonably burdensome.’ ”  Donovan v. Lone Steer, Inc.,

464 U. S. 408, 415 (1984).  Persons with no meaningful interests in the records sought by a subpoena, like the defendants in Miller and Smith, have no rights to object to the records’ disclosure—much less to assert that the Government must obtain a warrant to compel disclosure of the records.  See Miller, 425 U. S., at 444–446; SEC v. Jerry T. O’Brien, Inc.,

467 U. S. 735, 742–743 (1984).

															Based on Miller and Smith and the principles underlying those cases, it is well established that subpoenas may be used to obtain a wide variety of records held by businesses, even when the records contain private information.  See 2 W. LaFave, Search and Seizure §4.13 (5th ed. 2012).  Credit cards are a prime example.  State and federal law enforcement, for instance, often subpoena credit card statements to develop probable cause to prosecute crimes ranging from drug trafficking and distribution to healthcare fraud to tax evasion.  See United States v. Phibbs, 999 F. 2d 1053 (CA6 1993) (drug distribution); McCune v. DOJ, 592 Fed. Appx. 287 (CA5 2014) (healthcare fraud); United States v. Green, 305 F. 3d 422 (CA6 2002) (drug trafficking and tax evasion); see also 12 U. S. C. §§3402(4), 3407 (allowing the Government to subpoena financial records if “there is reason to believe that the records sought are relevant to a legitimate law enforcement inquiry”).  Subpoenas also may be used to obtain vehicle registration records, hotel records, employment records, and records of utility usage, to name just a few other examples.  See 1 LaFave, supra, §2.7(c).

															And law enforcement officers are not alone in their reliance on subpoenas to obtain business records for legitimate investigations.  Subpoenas also are used for investigatory purposes by state and federal grand juries, see United States v. Dionisio,

410 U. S. 1 (1973), state and federal administrative agencies, see Oklahoma Press, supra, and state and federal legislative bodies, see McPhaul v. United States,

364 U. S. 372 (1960).

															B

															Carpenter does not question these traditional investigative practices.  And he does not ask the Court to reconsider Miller and Smith.  Carpenter argues only that, under Miller and Smith, the Government may not use compulsory process to acquire cell-site records from cell phone service providers.

															There is no merit in this argument.  Cell-site records, like all the examples just discussed, are created, kept, classified, owned, and controlled by cell phone service providers, which aggregate and sell this information to third parties.  As in Miller, Carpenter can “assert neither ownership nor possession” of the records and has no control over them.  425 U. S., at 440.

															Carpenter argues that he has
 
Fourth Amendment interests in the cell-site records because they are in essence his personal papers by operation of

47 U. S. C. §222.  That statute imposes certain restrictions on how providers may use “customer proprietary network information”—a term that encompasses cell-site records.  §§222(c), (h)(1)(A).  The statute in general prohibits providers from disclosing personally identifiable cell-site records to private third parties.  §222(c)(1).  And it allows customers to request cell-site records from the provider.  §222(c)(2).

															Carpenter’s argument is unpersuasive, however, for  §222 does not grant cell phone customers any meaningful interest in cell-site records.  The statute’s confidentiality protections may be overridden by the interests of the providers or the Government.  The providers may disclose the records “to protect the[ir] rights or property” or to “initiate, render, bill, and collect for telecommunications services.”  §§222(d)(1), (2).  They also may disclose the records “as required by law”—which, of course, is how they were disclosed in this case.  §222(c)(1).  Nor does the statute provide customers any practical control over the records.  Customers do not create the records; they have no say in whether or for how long the records are stored; and they cannot require the records to be modified or destroyed.  Even their right to request access to the records is limited, for the statute “does not preclude a carrier from being reimbursed by the customers . . . for the costs associated with making such disclosures.”  H. R. Rep. No. 104–204, pt. 1, p. 90 (1995).  So in every legal and practical sense the “network information” regulated by §222 is, under that statute, “proprietary” to the service providers, not Carpenter.  The Court does not argue otherwise.

															Because Carpenter lacks a requisite connection to the cell-site records, he also may not claim a reasonable expectation of privacy in them.  He could expect that a third party—the cell phone service provider—could use the information it collected, stored, and classified as its own for a variety of business and commercial purposes.

															All this is not to say that Miller and Smith are without limits.  Miller and Smith may not apply when the Government obtains the modern-day equivalents of an individual’s own “papers” or “effects,” even when those papers or effects are held by a third party.  See Ex parte Jackson,

96 U. S. 727, 733 (1878) (letters held by mail carrier); United States v. Warshak, 631 F. 3d 266, 283–288 (CA6 2010) (e-mails held by Internet service provider).  As already discussed, however, this case does not involve property or a bailment of that sort.  Here the Government’s acquisition of cell-site records falls within the heartland of Miller and Smith.

															In fact, Carpenter’s
 
Fourth Amendment objection is even weaker than those of the defendants in Miller and Smith.  Here the Government did not use a mere sub- poena to obtain the cell-site records.  It acquired the records only after it proved to a Magistrate Judge reasonable grounds to believe that the records were relevant and material to an ongoing criminal investigation.  See

18 U. S. C. §2703(d).  So even if §222 gave Carpenter some attenuated interest in the records, the Government’s conduct here would be reasonable under the standards governing subpoenas.  See Donovan, 464 U. S., at 415.

															Under Miller and Smith, then, a search of the sort that requires a warrant simply did not occur when the Government used court-approved compulsory process, based on a finding of reasonable necessity, to compel a cell phone service provider, as owner, to disclose cell-site records.

															III

															The Court rejects a straightforward application of Miller and Smith.  It concludes instead that applying those cases to cell-site records would work a “significant extension” of the principles underlying them, ante, at 15, and holds that the acquisition of more than six days of cell-site records constitutes a search, ante, at 11, n. 3.

															In my respectful view the majority opinion misreads this Court’s precedents, old and recent, and transforms Miller and Smith into an unprincipled and unworkable doctrine.  The Court’s newly conceived constitutional standard will cause confusion; will undermine traditional and important law enforcement practices; and will allow the cell phone to become a protected medium that dangerous persons will use to commit serious crimes.

															A

															The Court errs at the outset by attempting to sidestep Miller and Smith.  The Court frames this case as following instead from United States v. Knotts,

460 U. S. 276 (1983), and United States v. Jones,

565 U. S. 400 (2012).  Those cases, the Court suggests, establish that “individuals have a reasonable expectation of privacy in the whole of their physical movements.”  Ante, at 7–9, 12.

															Knotts held just the opposite: “A person traveling in an automobile on public thoroughfares has no reasonable expectation of privacy in his movements from one place to another.”  460 U. S., at 281.  True, the Court in Knotts also suggested that “different constitutional principles may be applicable” to “dragnet-type law enforcement practices.”  Id., at 284.  But by dragnet practices the Court was referring to “ ‘twenty-four hour surveillance of any citizen of this country . . . without judicial knowledge or supervision.’ ”  Id., at 283.

															Those “different constitutional principles” mentioned in Knotts, whatever they may be, do not apply in this case.  Here the Stored Communications Act requires a neutral judicial officer to confirm in each case that the Government has “reasonable grounds to believe” the cell-site records “are relevant and material to an ongoing criminal investigation.”

18 U. S. C. §2703(d).  This judicial check mitigates the Court’s concerns about “ ‘a too permeating police surveillance.’ ”  Ante, at 6 (quoting United States v. Di Re,

332 U. S. 581, 595 (1948)).  Here, even more so  than in Knotts, “reality hardly suggests abuse.”  460 U. S., at 284.

															The Court’s reliance on Jones fares no better.  In Jones the Government installed a GPS tracking device on the defendant’s automobile.  The Court held the Government searched the automobile because it “physically occupied private property [of the defendant] for the purpose of obtaining information.”  565 U. S., at 404.  So in Jones it was “not necessary to inquire about the target’s expectation of privacy in his vehicle’s movements.”  Grady v. North Carolina, 575 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (per curiam) (slip op., at 3).

															Despite that clear delineation of the Court’s holding in Jones, the Court today declares that Jones applied the “ ‘different constitutional principles’ ” alluded to in Knotts to establish that an individual has an expectation of pri- vacy in the sum of his whereabouts.  Ante, at 8, 12.  For that proposition the majority relies on the two concurring opinions in Jones, one of which stated that “longer term GPS monitoring in investigations of most offenses impinges on expectations of privacy.”  565 U. S., at 430 (Alito, J., concurring).  But Jones involved direct governmental surveillance of a defendant’s automobile without judicial authorization—specifically, GPS surveillance accurate within 50 to 100 feet.  Id., at 402–403.  Even assuming that the different constitutional principles mentioned in Knotts would apply in a case like Jones—a proposition the Court was careful not to announce in Jones, supra, at 412–413—those principles are inapplicable here.  Cases like this one, where the Government uses court-approved compulsory process to obtain records owned and controlled by a third party, are governed by the two majority opinions in Miller and Smith.

															B

															The Court continues its analysis by misinterpreting Miller and Smith, and then it reaches the wrong outcome on these facts even under its flawed standard.

															The Court appears, in my respectful view, to read Miller and Smith to establish a balancing test.  For each “qualitatively different category” of information, the Court suggests, the privacy interests at stake must be weighed against the fact that the information has been disclosed to a third party.  See ante, at 11, 15–17.  When the privacy interests are weighty enough to “overcome” the third-party disclosure, the
 
Fourth Amendment’s protections apply.  See ante, at 17.

															That is an untenable reading of Miller and Smith.  As already discussed, the fact that information was relinquished to a third party was the entire basis for concluding that the defendants in those cases lacked a reasonable expectation of privacy.  Miller and Smith do not establish the kind of category-by-category balancing the Court today prescribes.

															But suppose the Court were correct to say that Miller and Smith rest on so imprecise a foundation.  Still the Court errs, in my submission, when it concludes that cell-site records implicate greater privacy interests—and thus deserve greater
 
Fourth Amendment protection—than financial records and telephone records.

															Indeed, the opposite is true.  A person’s movements are not particularly private.  As the Court recognized in Knotts, when the defendant there “traveled over the public streets he voluntarily conveyed to anyone who wanted to look the fact that he was traveling over particular roads in a particular direction, the fact of whatever stops he made, and the fact of his final destination.”  460 U. S., at 281–282.  Today expectations of privacy in one’s location are, if anything, even less reasonable than when the Court decided Knotts over 30 years ago.  Millions of Americans choose to share their location on a daily basis, whether by using a variety of location-based services on their phones, or by sharing their location with friends and the public at large via social media.

															And cell-site records, as already discussed, disclose a person’s location only in a general area.  The records at issue here, for example, revealed Carpenter’s location within an area covering between around a dozen and several hundred city blocks.  “Areas of this scale might encompass bridal stores and Bass Pro Shops, gay bars and straight ones, a Methodist church and the local mosque.”  819 F. 3d 880, 889 (CA6 2016).  These records could not reveal where Carpenter lives and works, much less his “ ‘familial, political, professional, religious, and sexual associations.’ ”  Ante, at 12 (quoting Jones, supra, at 415 (Sotomayor, J., concurring)).

															By contrast, financial records and telephone records do “ ‘revea[l] . . . personal affairs, opinions, habits and associations.’ ”  Miller, 425 U. S., at 451 (Brennan, J., dissenting); see Smith, 442 U. S., at 751 (Marshall, J., dissenting).  What persons purchase and to whom they talk might disclose how much money they make; the political and religious organizations to which they donate; whether they have visited a psychiatrist, plastic surgeon, abortion clinic, or AIDS treatment center; whether they go to gay bars or straight ones; and who are their closest friends and family members.  The troves of intimate information the Government can and does obtain using financial records and telephone records dwarfs what can be gathered from cell-site records.

															Still, the Court maintains, cell-site records are “unique” because they are “comprehensive” in their reach; allow for retrospective collection; are “easy, cheap, and efficient compared to traditional investigative tools”; and are not exposed to cell phone service providers in a meaningfully voluntary manner.  Ante, at 11–13, 17, 22.  But many other kinds of business records can be so described.  Financial records are of vast scope.  Banks and credit card companies keep a comprehensive account of almost every transaction an individual makes on a daily basis.  “With just the click of a button, the Government can access each [company’s] deep repository of historical [financial] information at practically no expense.”  Ante, at 12–13.  And the decision whether to transact with banks and credit card companies is no more or less voluntary than the decision whether to use a cell phone.  Today, just as when Miller was decided, “ ‘it is impossible to participate in the economic life of contemporary society without maintaining a bank account.’ ”  425 U. S., at 451 (Brennan, J., dissenting).  But this Court, nevertheless, has held that individ- uals do not have a reasonable expectation of privacy in financial records.

															Perhaps recognizing the difficulty of drawing the constitutional line between cell-site records and financial and telephonic records, the Court posits that the accuracy of cell-site records “is rapidly approaching GPS-level precision.”  Ante, at 14.  That is certainly plausible in the era of cyber technology, yet the privacy interests associated with location information, which is often disclosed to the public at large, still would not outweigh the privacy interests implicated by financial and telephonic records.

															Perhaps more important, those future developments are no basis upon which to resolve this case.  In general, the Court “risks error by elaborating too fully on the
 
Fourth Amendment implications of emerging technology before its role in society has become clear.”  Ontario v. Quon,

560 U. S. 746, 759 (2010).  That judicial caution, prudent in most cases, is imperative in this one.

															Technological changes involving cell phones have complex effects on crime and law enforcement.  Cell phones make crimes easier to coordinate and conceal, while also providing the Government with new investigative tools that may have the potential to upset traditional privacy expectations.  See Kerr, An Equilibrium-Adjustment Theory of the
 
Fourth Amendment, 125 Harv. L. Rev 476, 512–517 (2011).  How those competing effects balance against each other, and how property norms and expectations of privacy form around new technology, often will be difficult to determine during periods of rapid technological change.  In those instances, and where the governing legal standard is one of reasonableness, it is wise to defer to legislative judgments like the one embodied in §2703(d) of the Stored Communications Act.  See Jones, 565 U. S., at 430 (Alito, J., concurring).  In §2703(d) Congress weighed the privacy interests at stake and imposed a judicial check to prevent executive overreach.  The Court should be wary of upsetting that legislative balance and erecting constitutional barriers that foreclose further legislative instructions.  See Quon, supra, at 759.  The last thing the Court should do is incorporate an arbitrary and outside limit—in this case six days’ worth of cell-site records—and use it as the foundation for a new constitutional framework.  The Court’s decision runs roughshod over the mechanism Congress put in place to govern the acquisition of cell-site records and closes off further legislative debate on these issues.

															C

															The Court says its decision is a “narrow one.”  Ante, at 17.  But its reinterpretation of Miller and Smith will have dramatic consequences for law enforcement, courts, and society as a whole.

															Most immediately, the Court’s holding that the Government must get a warrant to obtain more than six days of cell-site records limits the effectiveness of an important investigative tool for solving serious crimes.  As this case demonstrates, cell-site records are uniquely suited to help the Government develop probable cause to apprehend some of the Nation’s most dangerous criminals: serial killers, rapists, arsonists, robbers, and so forth.  See also, e.g., Davis, 785 F. 3d, at 500–501 (armed robbers); Brief for Alabama et al. as Amici Curiae 21–22 (serial killer).  These records often are indispensable at the initial stages of investigations when the Government lacks the evidence necessary to obtain a warrant.  See United States v. Pembrook, 876 F.3d 812, 816–819 (CA6 2017).  And the long-term nature of many serious crimes, including serial crimes and terrorism offenses, can necessitate the use of significantly more than six days of cell-site records.  The Court’s arbitrary 6-day cutoff has the perverse effect  of nullifying Congress’ reasonable framework for obtain- ing cell-site records in some of the most serious criminal investigations.

															The Court’s decision also will have ramifications that extend beyond cell-site records to other kinds of information held by third parties, yet the Court fails “to provide clear guidance to law enforcement” and courts on key issues raised by its reinterpretation of Miller and Smith.  Riley v. California, 573 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op.,  at 22).

															First, the Court’s holding is premised on cell-site records being a “distinct category of information” from other business records.  Ante, at 15.  But the Court does not explain what makes something a distinct category of information.  Whether credit card records are distinct from bank records; whether payment records from digital wallet applications are distinct from either; whether the electronic bank records available today are distinct from the paper and microfilm records at issue in Miller; or whether cell-phone call records are distinct from the home-phone call records at issue in Smith, are just a few of the difficult questions that require answers under the Court’s novel conception of Miller and Smith.

															Second, the majority opinion gives courts and law enforcement officers no indication how to determine whether any particular category of information falls on the financial-records side or the cell-site-records side of its newly conceived constitutional line.  The Court’s multifactor analysis—considering intimacy, comprehensiveness, expense, retrospectivity, and voluntariness—puts the law on a new and unstable foundation.

															Third, even if a distinct category of information is deemed to be more like cell-site records than financial records, courts and law enforcement officers will have to guess how much of that information can be requested before a warrant is required.  The Court suggests that less than seven days of location information may not require a warrant.  See ante, at 11, n. 3; see also ante, at 17–18 (expressing no opinion on “real-time CSLI,” tower dumps, and security-camera footage).  But the Court does not explain why that is so, and nothing in its opinion even alludes to the considerations that should determine whether greater or lesser thresholds should apply to information like IP addresses or website browsing history.

															Fourth, by invalidating the Government’s use of court-approved compulsory process in this case, the Court calls into question the subpoena practices of federal and state grand juries, legislatures, and other investigative bodies, as Justice Alito’s opinion explains.  See post, at 2–19 (dissenting opinion).  Yet the Court fails even to mention the serious consequences this will have for the proper administration of justice.

															In short, the Court’s new and uncharted course will inhibit law enforcement and “keep defendants and judges guessing for years to come.”  Riley, 573 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 25) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															*  *  *

															This case should be resolved by interpreting accepted property principles as the baseline for reasonable expectations of privacy.  Here the Government did not search anything over which Carpenter could assert ownership or control.  Instead, it issued a court-authorized subpoena to a third party to disclose information it alone owned and controlled.  That should suffice to resolve this case.

															Having concluded, however, that the Government searched Carpenter when it obtained cell-site records from his cell phone service providers, the proper resolution of this case should have been to remand for the Court of Appeals to determine in the first instance whether the search was reasonable.  Most courts of appeals, believing themselves bound by Miller and Smith, have not grappled with this question.  And the Court’s reflexive imposition of the warrant requirement obscures important and difficult issues, such as the scope of Congress’ power to authorize the Government to collect new forms of information using processes that deviate from traditional warrant procedures, and how the
 
Fourth Amendment’s reasonableness requirement should apply when the Government uses compulsory process instead of engaging in an actual, physical search.

															These reasons all lead to this respectful dissent.

															 

															APPENDIX

															

															“§2703. Required disclosure of customer communications or records

															

															“(d) Requirements for Court Order.—A court order for disclosure under subsection (b) or (c) may be issued by any court that is a court of competent jurisdiction and shall issue only if the governmental entity offers specific and articulable facts showing that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the contents of a wire or electronic communication, or the records or other information sought, are relevant and material to an ongoing criminal investigation.  In the case of a State governmental authority, such a court order shall not issue if prohibited by the law of such State.  A court issuing an order pursuant to this section, on a motion made promptly by the service provider, may quash or modify such order, if the information or records requested are unusually voluminous in nature or compliance with such order otherwise would cause an undue burden on such provider.”
													
