::SCDB_caseID:: 2016-073
::decision_cite:: 16-405
::decision_name::  BNSF Railroad Co. v. Tyrrell
::decision_year:: 2017
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence-Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–405

															_________________

															BNSF RAILWAY CO., PETITIONER v. KELLI
TYRRELL, special administrator for the ESTATE OF BRENT T. TYRRELL,
DECEASED, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
montana

															[May 30, 2017]

															Justice Sotomayor, concurring in part and
dissenting in part.

															I concur in the Court’s conclusion that
the Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA), 45
U. S. C. §51 et seq., does not confer
personal jurisdiction over railroads on state courts. I also agree
that the Montana Supreme Court erred when it concluded that the
nature of the claim here—a FELA claim against a
railroad—answers the question whether the Due Process Clause
allows the exercise of personal jurisdiction over BNSF. But my
agreement with the majority ends there. I continue to disagree with
the path the Court struck in Daimler AG v. Bauman,
571 U. S. ___ (2014), which limits general jurisdiction over a
corporate defendant only to those States where it is
“ ‘essentially at home,’ ”
id., at ___ (slip op., at 8). And even if the Court insists
on adhering to that standard, I dissent from its decision to apply
it here in the first instance rather than remanding to the Montana
Supreme Court for it to conduct what should be a fact-intensive
analysis under the proper legal framework. Accordingly, I join
Parts I and II of the Court’s opinion, but dissent from Part
III and the judgment.

															The Court would do well to adhere more
faithfully to the direction from International Shoe Co. v.
Washington, 326 U. S. 310 (1945), which instructed that
general jurisdiction is proper when a corporation’s
“continuous corporate operations within a state [are] so
substantial and of such a nature as to justify suit against it on
causes of action arising from dealings entirely distinct from those
activities.” Id., at 318. Under International
Shoe, in other words, courts were to ask whether the benefits a
defendant attained in the forum State warranted the burdens
associated with general personal jurisdiction. See id., at
317–318. The majority itself acknowledges that
International Shoe should govern, describing the question as
whether a defendant’s affiliations with a State are
sufficiently “ ‘continuous and
systematic’ ” to warrant the exercise of general
jurisdiction there. Ante, at 10. If only its analysis today
reflected that directive. Instead, the majority opinion goes on to
reaffirm the restrictive “at home” test set out in
Daimler—a test that, as I have explained, has no home
in our precedents and creates serious inequities. See 571
U. S., at ___–___ (Sotomayor, J., concurring in
judgment) (slip op., at 8–19).

															The majority’s approach grants a
jurisdictional windfall to large multistate or multinational
corporations that operate across many jurisdictions. Under its
reasoning, it is virtually inconceivable that such corporations
will ever be subject to general jurisdiction in any location other
than their principal places of business or of incorporation.
Foreign businesses with principal places of business outside the
United States may never be subject to general jurisdiction in this
country even though they have continuous and systematic contacts
within the United States. See id., at ___–___ (slip
op., at 17–18). What was once a holistic, nuanced contacts
analysis backed by considerations of fairness and reasonableness
has now effectively been replaced by the rote identification of a
corporation’s principal place of business or place of
incorporation.[1] The result?
It is individual plaintiffs, harmed by the actionsof a farflung
foreign corporation, who will bear the brunt of the
majority’s approach and be forced to sue in dis-tant
jurisdictions with which they have no contacts or connection.

															Moreover, the comparative contacts analysis
invented in Daimler resurfaces here and proves all but
dispositive. The majority makes much of the fact that BNSF’s
contacts in Montana are only a percentage of its contacts with
other jurisdictions. Ante, at 3, 11. But International
Shoe, which the majority agrees is the springboard for our
modern personal jurisdiction jurisprudence, ante, at 9,
applied no comparative contacts test. There the Court analyzed
whether the Delaware corporation had “by its activities in
the State of Washington rendered itself amenable to
proceedings” in the State. 326 U. S., at 311. The
Court evaluated whether the corporation had offices in the forum
State, made contracts there, delivered goods there, or employed
salesmen there. See id., at 313. Despite acknowledging that
the corporation maintained places of business in several States,
ibid., the Court did not engage in a comparison between
International Shoe’s contacts within the State of Washington
and the other States in which it operated.[2] The Court noted that the corporation employed 11 to
13 salesmen in Washington but did not query how that number
compared to the number of salesmen in other States. Ibid. As
well it should not have; the relative percentage of contacts is
irrelevant. The focus should be on the quality and quantity of the
defendant’s contacts in the forum State.[3]

															The majority does even Daimler itself a
disservice, paying only lipservice to the question the Court
purported to reserve there—the possibility of an
“exceptional case” in which general jurisdiction would
be proper in a forum State that is neither a corporate
defendant’s place of incorporation nor its principal place of
business. See 571 U. S., at ___, n. 19 (slip op., at 20,
n. 19). Its opinion here could be understood to limit that
exception to the exact facts of Perkins v. Benguet
Consol. Mining Co., 342 U. S. 437 (1952) . See
ante, at 10–11. That reading is so narrow as to read
the exception out of existence entirely; certainly a defendant with
significant contacts with more than one State falls outside its
ambit. And so it is inevitable under its own reasoning that the
majority would conclude that BNSF’s contacts with Montana are
insufficient to justify the exercise of personal jurisdiction here.
This result is perverse. Despite having reserved the possibility of
an “exceptional case” in Daimler, the majority
here has re-jected that possibility out of hand.

															Worse, the majority reaches its conclusion only
by departing from the Court’s normal practice.[4] Had it remanded to the Montana Supreme
Court to reevaluate the due process question under the correct
legal standard, that court could have examined whether this is such
an “exceptional case.” Instead, with its ruling today,
the Court unnecessarily sends a signal to the lower courtsthat the
exceptional-circumstances inquiry is all form, no substance.

															I respectfully concur in part and dissent in
part.

Notes
1
 As many commentators have
observed, lower courts adhered to the continuous-and-systematic
standard for decades before Daimler, and its predecessor
Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S. A. v.
Brown, 564 U. S. 915 (2011) , wrought the present sea
change. See, e.g., Cornett & Hoffheimer, Good-Bye
Significant Contacts: General Personal Jurisdiction after
Daimler AG v. Bauman, 76 Ohio St. L. J. 101
(2015); Parry, Rethinking Personal Jurisdiction after Bauman
and Walden, 19 Lewis & Clark L. Rev. 607 (2015);
Doernberg, Resoling International Shoe, 2 Tex. A&M
L. Rev. 247 (2014); Feder, Goodyear,
“Home,” and the Uncertain Future of Doing Business
Jurisdiction, 63 S. C. L. Rev. 671 (2012).
2
 The majority responds
that the language from International Shoe informs only a
specific jurisdiction case. Ante, at 12, n. 4. But the
majority’s view of International Shoe is overly
restrictive. The terms “specific jurisdiction” and
“general jurisdiction” are nowhere to be found in that
opinion. And I continue to believe, as I noted in Daimler,
that there is no material difference between the “continuous
and systematic” terminology International Shoe used
for what we now call specific jurisdiction and the
“continuous” and “substantial” terminology
it used for what we now call general jurisdiction. See
Daimler, 571 U. S., at ___, n. 6 (Sotomayor, J.,
concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 8, n. 6).
3
 Indeed, in neither
Perkins v. Benguet Consol. Mining Co., 342 U. S.
437 (1952) , nor Helicopteros Nacionales de Colombia,
S. A. v. Hall, 466 U. S. 408 (1984) , did the
Court engage in a comparative-contacts analysis.
4
 The Montana Supreme Court
reached this question only by wrongly assuming that 45
U. S. C. §56 is a jurisdictional statute and that a
defendant’s unique status as a railroad company is
dispositive of the jurisdictional question. A remand rather than an
outright reversal is this Court’s traditional practice where
a lower court applies the incorrect legal standard; we have done it
repeatedly just this Term. See, e.g., Bethune-Hill v.
Virginia State Bd. of Elections, 580 U. S. ___ (2017);
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela v. Helmerich & Payne
Int’l Drilling Co., ante, p. ___; McLane
Co. v. EEOC, ante, p. ___; Moore v.
Texas, ante, p. ___.


