::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-039
::decision_cite:: 16-8255
::decision_name::  McCoy v. Louisiana
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–8255

															_________________

															ROBERT LEROY McCOY, PETITIONER v. LOUISIANA

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of louisiana

															[May 14, 2018]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Gorsuch join, dissenting.

															The Constitution gives us the authority to decide real cases and controversies; we do not have the right to simplify or otherwise change the facts of a case in order to make our work easier or to achieve a desired result.  But that is exactly what the Court does in this case.  The Court overturns petitioner’s convictions for three counts of first-degree murder by attributing to his trial attorney, Larry English, something that English never did.  The Court holds that English violated petitioner’s constitutional rights by “admit[ting] h[is] client’s guilt of a charged crime over the client’s intransigent objection.”  Ante, at 11.[1]  But English did not admit that petitioner was guilty of first-degree murder.  Instead, faced with overwhelming evidence that petitioner shot and killed the three victims, English admitted that petitioner committed one element of that offense, i.e., that he killed the victims.  But English strenuously argued that petitioner was not guilty of first-degree murder because he lacked the intent (the mens rea) required for the offense.  App. 508–512.  So the Court’s newly discovered fundamental right simply does not apply to the real facts of this case.

															I

															The real case is far more complex.  Indeed, the real situation English faced at the beginning of petitioner’s trial was the result of a freakish confluence of factors that is unlikely to recur.

															Retained by petitioner’s family, English found himself in a predicament as the trial date approached.  The evidence against his client was truly “overwhelming,” as the Louisiana Supreme Court aptly noted.  2014–1449 (La. 10/19/16), 218 So. 3d 535, 565 (2016).  Among other things, the evidence showed the following.  Before the killings took place, petitioner had abused and threatened to kill his wife, and she was therefore under police protection.  On the night of the killings, petitioner’s mother-in-law made a 911 call and was heard screaming petitioner’s first name.  She yelled: “ ‘She ain’t here, Robert . . . I don’t know where she is.  The detectives have her.  Talk to the detectives.  She ain’t in there, Robert.’ ”  Id., at 542.  Moments later, a gunshot was heard, and the 911 call was  disconnected.

															Officers were dispatched to the scene, and on arrival, they found three dead or dying victims—petitioner’s mother-in-law, her husband, and the teenage son of petitioner’s wife.  The officers saw a man who fit petitioner’s description fleeing in petitioner’s car.  They chased the suspect, but he abandoned the car along with critical evidence linking him to the crime: the cordless phone petitioner’s mother-in-law had used to call 911 and a receipt for the type of ammunition used to kill the victims.  Petitioner was eventually arrested while hitchhiking in Idaho, and a loaded gun found in his possession was identified as the one used to shoot the victims.  In addition to all this, a witness testified that petitioner had asked to borrow money to purchase bullets shortly before the shootings, and surveillance footage showed petitioner purchasing the ammunition on the day of the killings.  And two of petitioner’s friends testified that he confessed to killing at least one person.

															Despite all this evidence, petitioner, who had been found competent to stand trial and had refused to plead guilty by reason of insanity, insisted that he did not kill the victims.  He claimed that the victims were killed by the local police and that he had been framed by a farflung conspiracy of state and federal officials, reaching from Louisiana to Idaho.  Petitioner believed that even his attorney and the trial judge had joined the plot.  App. 509.

															Unwilling to go along with this incredible and uncorroborated defense, English told petitioner “some eight months” before trial that the only viable strategy was to admit the killings and to concentrate on attempting to avoid a sentence of death.  218 So. 3d, at 558.   At that point—aware of English’s strong views—petitioner could have discharged English and sought new counsel willing to pursue his conspiracy defense; under the
 
Sixth Amendment, that was his right.  See United States v. Gonzalez-Lopez,

548 U. S. 140, 144 (2006).  But petitioner stated “several different times” that he was “confident with Mr. English.”  App. 411, 437.

															The weekend before trial, however, petitioner changed his mind.  He asked the trial court to replace English, and English asked for permission to withdraw.  Petitioner stated that he had secured substitute counsel, but he was unable to provide the name of this new counsel, and no new attorney ever appeared.  The court refused these requests and also denied petitioner’s last-minute request to represent himself.  (Petitioner does not challenge these decisions here.)  So petitioner and English were stuck with each other, and petitioner availed himself of his right to take the stand to tell his wild story.  Under those circumstances, what was English supposed to do?

															The Louisiana Supreme Court held that English could not have put on petitioner’s desired defense without violating state ethics rules, see 218 So. 3d, at 564–565, but this Court effectively overrules the state court on this issue of state law, ante, at 9–10.  However, even if it is assumed that the Court is correct on this ethics issue, the result of mounting petitioner’s conspiracy defense almost certainly would have been disastrous.  That approach stood no chance of winning an acquittal and would have severely damaged English’s credibility in the eyes of the jury, thus undermining his ability to argue effectively against the imposition of a death sentence at the penalty phase of the trial.  As English observed, taking that path would have only “help[ed] the District Attorney send [petitioner] to the death chamber.”  App. 396.  (In Florida v. Nixon,

543 U. S. 175, 191–192 (2004), this Court made essentially the same point.)  So, again, what was English supposed to do?

															When pressed at oral argument before this Court, petitioner’s current counsel eventually provided an answer: English was not required to take any affirmative steps to support petitioner’s bizarre defense, but instead of conceding that petitioner shot the victims, English should have ignored that element entirely.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 21–23.  So the fundamental right supposedly violated in this case comes down to the difference between the two statements set out below.

															Constitutional: “First-degree murder requires proof both that the accused killed the victim and that he acted with the intent to kill.  I submit to you that my client did not have the intent required for conviction for that offense.”

															Unconstitutional: “First-degree murder requires proof both that the accused killed the victim and that he acted with the intent to kill.  I admit that my client shot and killed the victims, but I submit to you that he did not have the intent required for conviction for that offense.”

															The practical difference between these two statements is negligible.  If English had conspicuously refrained from endorsing petitioner’s story and had based his defense solely on petitioner’s dubious mental condition, the jury would surely have gotten the message that English was essentially conceding that petitioner killed the victims.  But according to petitioner’s current attorney, the difference is fundamental.  The first formulation, he admits, is perfectly fine.  The latter, on the other hand, is a violation so egregious that the defendant’s conviction must be reversed even if there is no chance that the misstep caused any harm.  It is no wonder that the Court declines to embrace this argument and instead turns to an issue that the case at hand does not actually present.

															II

															The constitutional right that the Court has now discovered—a criminal defendant’s right to insist that his attorney contest his guilt with respect to all charged offenses—is like a rare plant that blooms every decade or so.  Having made its first appearance today, the right is unlikely to figure in another case for many years to come.  Why is  this so?

															First, it is hard to see how the right could come into play in any case other than a capital case in which the jury must decide both guilt and punishment.  In all other cases, guilt is almost always the only issue for the jury, and therefore admitting guilt of all charged offenses will achieve nothing.  It is hard to imagine a situation in which a competent attorney might take that approach.  So the right that the Court has discovered is effectively confined to capital cases.

															Second, few rational defendants facing a possible death sentence are likely to insist on contesting guilt where there is no real chance of acquittal and where admitting guilt may improve the chances of avoiding execution.  Indeed, under such circumstances, the odds are that a rational defendant will plead guilty in exchange for a life sentence.  By the same token, an attorney is unlikely to insist on admitting guilt over the defendant’s objection unless the attorney believes that contesting guilt would be futile.  So the right is most likely to arise in cases involving irrational capital defendants.[2]

															Third, where a capital defendant and his retained attorney cannot agree on a basic trial strategy, the attorney and client will generally part ways unless, as in this case, the court is not apprised until the eve of trial.  The client will then either search for another attorney or decide to represent himself.  So the field of cases in which this right might arise is limited further still—to cases involving irrational capital defendants who disagree with their attorneys’ proposed strategy yet continue to retain them.

															Fourth, if counsel is appointed, and unreasonably insists on admitting guilt over the defendant’s objection, a capable trial judge will almost certainly grant a timely request to appoint substitute counsel.  And if such a request is denied, the ruling may be vulnerable on appeal.

															Finally, even if all the above conditions are met, the right that the Court now discovers will not come into play unless the defendant expressly protests counsel’s strategy of admitting guilt.  Where the defendant is advised of the strategy and says nothing, or is equivocal, the right is deemed to have been waived.  See Nixon, 543 U. S., at 192.

															In short, the right that the Court now discovers is likely to appear only rarely,[3] and because the present case is so unique, it is hard to see how it meets our stated criteria for granting review.  See this Court’s Rules 10(b)–(c).  Review would at least be understandable if the strategy that English pursued had worked an injustice, but the Court does not make that claim—and with good reason.  Endorsing petitioner’s bizarre defense would have been extraordinarily unwise, and dancing the fine line recommended by petitioner’s current attorney would have done no good.  It would have had no effect on the outcome of the trial, and it is hard to see how that approach would have respected petitioner’s “autonomy,” ante, at 6, 7, 8, 11, any more than the more straightforward approach that English took.  If petitioner is retried, it will be interesting to see what petitioner’s current counsel or any other attorney to whom the case is handed off will do.  It is a safe bet that no attorney will put on petitioner’s conspiracy defense.

															III

															While the question that the Court decides is unlikely to make another appearance for quite some time, a related—and difficult—question may arise more frequently: When guilt is the sole issue for the jury, is it ever permissible for counsel to make the unilateral decision to concede an element of the offense charged?  If today’s decision were understood to address that question, it would have important implications.

															Under current precedent, there are some decisions on which a criminal defendant has the final say.  For example, a defendant cannot be forced to enter a plea against his wishes.  See Brookhart v. Janis,

384 U. S. 1, 5–7 (1966).  Similarly, no matter what counsel thinks best, a defendant has the right to insist on a jury trial and to take the stand and testify in his own defense.  See Harris v. New York,

401 U. S. 222, 225 (1971).  And if, as in this case, a defendant and retained counsel do not see eye to eye, the client can always attempt to find another attorney who will accede to his wishes.  See Gonzalez-Lopez, 548 U. S., at 144.  A defendant can also choose to dispense with counsel entirely and represent himself.  See Faretta v. California,

422 U. S. 806, 819 (1975).

															While these fundamental decisions must be made by a criminal defendant, most of the decisions that arise in criminal cases are the prerogative of counsel.  (Our adversarial system would break down if defense counsel were required to obtain the client’s approval for every important move made during the course of the case.)  Among the decisions that counsel is free to make unilaterally are the following: choosing the basic line of defense, moving to suppress evidence, delivering an opening statement and deciding what to say in the opening, objecting to the admission of evidence, cross-examining witnesses, offering evidence and calling defense witnesses, and deciding what to say in summation.  See, e.g., New York v. Hill,

528 U. S. 110, 114–115 (2000).  On which side of the line does conceding some but not all elements of the charged offense fall?

															Some criminal offenses contain elements that the prosecution can easily prove beyond any shadow of a doubt.  A prior felony conviction is a good example.  See

18 U. S. C. §922(g) (possession of a firearm by a convicted felon).  Suppose that the prosecution is willing to stipulate that the defendant has a prior felony conviction but is prepared, if necessary, to offer certified judgments of conviction for multiple prior violent felonies.  If the defendant insists on contesting the convictions on frivolous grounds, must counsel go along?  Does the same rule apply to all elements?  If there are elements that may not be admitted over the defendant’s objection, must counsel go further and actually contest those elements?  Or is it permissible if counsel refrains from expressly conceding those elements but essentially admits them by walking the fine line recommended at argument by petitioner’s current attorney?

															What about conceding that a defendant is guilty, not of the offense charged, but of a lesser included offense?  That is what English did in this case.  He admitted that petitioner was guilty of the noncapital offense of second-degree murder in an effort to prevent a death sentence.  App. 651.[4]  Is admitting guilt of a lesser included offense over the defendant’s objection always unconstitutional?  Where the evidence strongly supports conviction for first-degree murder, is it unconstitutional for defense counsel to make the decision to admit guilt of any lesser included form of homicide—even manslaughter?  What about simple assault?

															These are not easy questions, and the fact that they have not come up in this Court for more than two centuries suggests that they will arise infrequently in the future.  I would leave those questions for another day and limit our decision to the particular (and highly unusual) situation in the actual case before us.  And given the situation in which English found himself when trial commenced, I would hold that he did not violate any fundamental right by expressly acknowledging that petitioner killed the victims instead of engaging in the barren exercise that petitioner’s current counsel now recommends.

															IV

															Having discovered a new right not at issue in the real case before us, the Court compounds its error by summarily concluding that a violation of this right “ranks as error of the kind our decisions have called ‘structural.’ ”  Ante,  at 11.

															The Court concedes that the Louisiana Supreme Court did not decide the structural-error question and that we “ ‘did not grant certiorari to review’ that question.”  Ante, at 12, n. 4.  We have stated time and again that we are “a court of review, not of first view” and, for that reason, have refused to decide issues not addressed below.  Cutter v. Wilkinson,

544 U. S. 709, 718, n. 7 (2005); see also, e.g., Jennings v. Rodriguez, 583 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 29); McWilliams v. Dunn, 582 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 16); County of Los Angeles v. Mendez, 581 U. S. ___, ___, n. (2017) (slip op., at 8, n.); BNSF R. Co. v. Tyrrell, 581 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 12); Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. v. Haeger, 581 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 13); McLane Co. v. EEOC, 581 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 11); Expressions Hair Design v. Schneiderman, 581 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 10); Manuel v. Joliet, 580 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 14).

															In this case, however, the court-of-review maxim does not suit the majority’s purposes, so it is happy to take the first view.  And the majority does so without adversarial briefing on the question.  See Brief for Respondent 45–46, n. 5.[5]  Under comparable circumstances, we have refrained from taking the lead on the question of structural error.  See e.g., Sandstrom v. Montana,

442 U. S. 510, 526–527 (1979); Faretta, 422 U. S., at 836; id., at 852 (Blackmun, J., dissenting).  There is no good reason to take a different approach in this case.

															*  *  *

															The Court ignores the question actually presented by the case before us and instead decides this case on the basis of a newly discovered constitutional right that is not implicated by what really occurred at petitioner’s trial.  I would base our decision on what really took place, and under the highly unusual facts of this case, I would affirm the judgment below.

															I therefore respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 When the Court expressly states its holding, it refers to a concession of guilt.  See ante, at 1–2 (“We hold that a defendant has the right to insist that counsel refrain from admitting guilt, even when counsel’s experienced-based view is that confessing guilt offers the defendant the best chance to avoid the death penalty”); ante, at 11 (“counsel may not admit her client’s guilt of a charged crime over the client’s intransigent objection to that admission”).  The opinion also contains many other references to the confession or admission of guilt.  See, e.g., ante, at 2 (“confessing guilt”; “admit guilt”); ante, at 4 (“admitting guilt”); ante, at 5 (“concede guilt”); ante, at 6 (“maintaining her innocence at the guilt phase”); ante, at 7 (“concession of guilt”); ante, at 8 (“conceding guilt”); ante, at 9 (“assertion of his guilt”); ante, at 10 (“conceding guilt”; “admit McCoy’s guilt”); ante, at 13 (“concession of guilt”; “admission of McCoy’s guilt”). At a few points, however, the Court refers to the admission of criminal “acts.”  Ante, at 1, 7, 10.  A rule that a defense attorney may not admit the actus reus of an offense (or perhaps even any element of the actus reus) would be very different from the rule that the Court expressly adopts.  I discuss some of the implications of such a broad rule in Part III of this opinion. 

2
 The Court imagines cases in which a rational defendant prefers even a minuscule chance of acquittal over either the social opprobrium that would result from an admission of guilt or the sentence of imprisonment that would be imposed upon conviction.  Ante, at 7.  Such cases are likely to be rare, and in any event, as explained below, the defendant will almost always be able to get his way if he acts in time. 

3
 The Court responds that three State Supreme Courts have “addressed this conflict in the past twenty years.”  Ante, at 10.  Even if true, that would hardly be much of a rebuttal.  Moreover, two of the three decisions were not based on the right that the Court discovers and applies here, i.e., “the right to insist that counsel refrain from admitting guilt.”  Ante, at 1–2.  In People v. Bergerud, 223 P. 3d 686 (Colo. 2010), the court found that defense counsel did not admit guilt, and the court’s decision (which did not award a new trial) was based on other grounds.  Id., at 692, 700, 707.  In State v. Carter, 270 Kan. 426, 14 P. 3d 1138 (2000), defense counsel did not admit his client’s guilt on all charges.  Instead, he contested the charge of first-degree murder but effectively admitted the elements of a lesser homicide offense.  Id., at 431–433, 14 P. 3d, at 1143. 

4
 The Court asserts that, under Louisiana law, English’s “second-degree strategy would have encountered a shoal” and necessarily failed.  Ante, at 3, n. 1.  But the final arbiter of Louisiana law—the Louisiana Supreme Court—disagreed.  It held that “[t]he jury was left with several choices” after English’s second-degree concession, “including returning a responsive verdict of second degree murder” and “not returning the death penalty.”  2014–1449 (La. 10/19/16), 218 So. 3d 535, 572 (2016). 

5
 Indeed, the Court actually faults the State for not “grappl[ing] with” an argument raised for the first time in petitioner’s opening brief.  Ante, at 12, n. 4.  But how can it blame the State?  This Court has said, time and again, that when “petitioners d[o] not raise [an] issue” until the merits stage, “we will not consider [the] argument.”  Chandris, Inc. v. Latsis,

515 U. S. 347, 354, n. (1995); see also, e.g., Taylor v. Freeland & Kronz,

503 U. S. 638, 645–646 (1992).  That is also what our Rules say.  See Yee v. Escondido,

503 U. S. 519, 535–538 (1992).  Why is this case any different? 


