::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-018
::decision_cite:: 16-980
::decision_name::  Husted v. A. Philip Randolph Institute
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–980

															_________________

															JON HUSTED, OHIO SECRETARY OF STATE, PETITIONER v. A. PHILIP RANDOLPH INSTITUTE, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[June 11, 2018]

															

															Thomas, J., concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full.  I write separately to add that respondents’ proposed interpretation of the National Voter Registration Act (NVRA) should also be rejected because it would raise significant constitutional concerns.

															Respondents would interpret the NVRA to prevent States from using failure to vote as evidence when deciding whether their voting qualifications have been satisfied.  Brief for Respondents 25–30.  The Court’s opinion explains why that reading is inconsistent with the text of the NVRA.  See ante, at 7–18.  But even if the NVRA were “susceptible” to respondents’ reading, it could not prevail because it “raises serious constitutional doubts” that the Court’s interpretation avoids.  Jennings v. Rodriguez, 583 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 2).

															As I have previously explained, constitutional text and history both “confirm that States have the exclusive authority to set voter qualifications and to determine whether those qualifications are satisfied.”  Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Ariz., Inc.,

570 U. S. 1, 29 (2013) (Thomas, J., dissenting).  The Voter-Qualifications Clause provides that, in elections for the House of Representatives, “the Electors in each State shall have the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature.”  U. S. Const., Art. I, §2, cl. 1.  The
 
Seventeenth Amendment imposes an identical requirement for elections of Senators.  And the Constitution recognizes the authority of States to “appoint” Presidential electors “in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct.”  Art. II, §1, cl. 2; see Inter Tribal Council of Ariz., 570 U. S., at 35, n. 2 (opinion of Thomas, J.).  States thus retain the authority to decide the qualifications to vote in federal elections, limited only by the requirement that they not “ ‘establish special requirements’ ” for congressional elections “ ‘that do not apply in elections for the state legislature.’ ”  Id., at 26 (quoting U. S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton,

514 U. S. 779, 865 (1995) (Thomas, J., dissenting)).  And because the power to establish requirements would mean little without the ability to enforce them, the Voter Qualifications Clause also “gives States the authority . . . to verify whether [their] qualifications are satisfied.”  570 U. S., at 28.

															Respondents’ reading of the NVRA would seriously interfere with the States’ constitutional authority to set and enforce voter qualifications.  To vote in Ohio, electors must have been a state resident 30 days before the election, as well as a resident of the county and precinct where they vote.  Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §3503.01(A) (Lexis 2015); see also Ohio Const., Art. V, §1.  Ohio uses a record of nonvoting as one piece of evidence that voters no longer satisfy the residence requirement.  Reading the NVRA to bar Ohio from considering nonvoting would therefore interfere with the State’s “authority to verify” that its qualifications are met “in the way it deems necessary.”  Inter Tribal Council of Ariz., supra, at 36.  Respondents’ reading thus renders the NVRA constitutionally suspect and should be disfavored.  See Jennings, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 2).

															Respondents counter that Congress’ power to regulate the “Times, Places and Manner” of holding congressional elections includes the power to impose limits on the evidence that a State may consider when maintaining its voter rolls.  See Brief for Respondents 51–55; see also Art. I, §4, cl. 1 (“The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or alter such Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators”).  But, as originally understood, the Times, Places and Manner Clause grants Congress power “only over the ‘when, where, and how’ of holding congressional elections,” not over the question of who can vote.  Inter Tribal Council of Ariz., supra, at 29 (opinion of Thomas, J.) (quoting T. Parsons, Notes of Convention Debates, Jan. 16, 1788, in 6 Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution 1211 (J. Kaminski & G. Saladino eds. 2000) (Massachusetts ratification delegate Sedgwick)).  The “ ‘Manner of holding Elections’ ” was understood to refer to “the circumstances under which elections were held and the mechanics of the actual election.”  570 U. S., at 30 (quoting Art. I, §4, cl. 1).  It does not give Congress the authority to displace state voter qualifications or dictate what evidence a State may consider in deciding whether those qualifications have been met.  See 570 U. S., at 29–33.  The Clause thus does not change the fact that respondents’ reading of the NVRA is constitutionally suspect.

															The Court’s interpretation of the NVRA was already the correct reading of the statute: The NVRA does not prohibit a State from considering failure to vote as evidence that a registrant has moved.  The fact that this reading avoids serious constitutional problems is an additional reason why, in my view, today’s decision is undoubtedly correct.
													
