::SCDB_caseID:: 2016-081
::decision_cite:: 16-992
::decision_name::  Pavan v. Smith
::decision_year:: 2017
::opinion_author:: 
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															 SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															MARISA N. PAVAN, et al. v. NATHANIEL SMITH

															on petition for writ of certiorari to the supreme court of arkansas

															No. 16–992. Decided June 26, 2017

															Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Alito join, dissenting.

															Summary reversal is usually reserved for cases where “the law is settled and stable, the facts are not in dispute, and the decision below is clearly in error.”  Schweiker v. Hansen,

450 U. S. 785,
791 (1981)
 (Marshall, J., dissenting).  Respectfully, I don’t believe this case meets that standard.  

															To be sure, Obergefell addressed the question whether a State must recognize same-sex marriages.  But nothing in Obergefell spoke (let alone clearly) to the question whether §20–18–401 of the Arkansas Code, or a state supreme court decision upholding it, must go.  The statute in question establishes a set of rules designed to ensure that the biological parents of a child are listed on the child’s birth certificate.  Before the state supreme court, the State argued that rational reasons exist for a biology based birth registration regime, reasons that in no way offend Obergefell—like ensuring government officials can identify public health trends and helping individuals determine their biological lineage, citizenship, or susceptibility to genetic disorders.  In an opinion that did not in any way seek to defy but rather earnestly engage Obergefell, the state supreme court agreed.  And it is very hard to see what is wrong with this conclusion for, just as the state court recognized, nothing in Obergefell indicates that a birth registration regime based on biology, one no doubt with many analogues across the country and throughout his-tory, offends the Constitution.  To the contrary, to the extent they speak to the question at all, this Court’s precedents suggest just the opposite conclusion.  See, e.g., Michael H. v. Gerald D.,

491 U. S. 110
–125 (1989); Tuan Anh Nguyen v. INS,

533 U. S. 53,
73 (2001)
.  Neither does anything in today’s opinion purport to identify any constitutional problem with a biology based birth registration regime.  So whatever else we might do with this case, summary reversal would not exactly seem the obvious course.

															What, then, is at work here?  If there isn’t a problem with a biology based birth registration regime, perhaps the concern lies in this particular regime’s exceptions.  For it turns out that Arkansas’s general rule of registration based on biology does admit of certain more specific exceptions.  Most importantly for our purposes, the State acknowledges that §9–10–201 of the Arkansas Code controls how birth certificates are completed in cases of artificial insemination like the one before us.  The State acknowledges, too, that this provision, written some time ago, indicates that the mother’s husband generally shall be treated as the father—and in this way seemingly anticipates only opposite-sex marital unions.

															But if the artificial insemination statute is the concern, it’s still hard to see how summary reversal should follow for at least a few reasons.  First, petitioners didn’t actually challenge §9–10–201 in their lawsuit.  Instead, petitioners sought and the trial court granted relief eliminating the State’s authority under §20–18–401 to enforce a birth registration regime generally based on biology.  On appeal, the state supreme court simply held that this overbroad remedy wasn’t commanded by Obergefell or the Constitution.  And, again, nothing in today’s opinion for the Court identifies anything wrong, let alone clearly wrong, in that conclusion.  Second, though petitioners’ lawsuit didn’t challenge §9–10–201, the State has repeatedly conceded that the benefits afforded nonbiological parents under §9–10–201 must be afforded equally to both same-sex and opposite-sex couples.  So that in this particular case and all others of its kind, the State agrees, the female spouse of the birth mother must be listed on birth certificates too.  Third, further proof still of the state of the law in Arkansas today is the fact that, when it comes to adoption (a situation not present in this case but another one in which Arkansas departs from biology based registration), the State tells us that adopting parents are eligible forplacement on birth certificates without respect to sexual orientation.

															Given all this, it seems far from clear what here warrants the strong medicine of summary reversal.  Indeed, it is not even clear what the Court expects to happen on remand that hasn’t happened already.  The Court does not offer any remedial suggestion, and none leaps to mind.  Perhaps the state supreme court could memorialize the State’s concession on §9–10–201, even though that law wasn’t fairly challenged and such a chore is hardly the usual reward for seeking faithfully to apply, not evade, this Court’s mandates.

															I respectfully dissent.
													
