::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-047
::decision_cite:: 16-9493
::decision_name::  Rosales-Mireles v. United States
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 16–9493

															_________________

															FLORENCIO ROSALES-MIRELES, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 18, 2018]

															

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito joins, dissenting.

															The Court holds that, “in the ordinary case,” a miscalculation of the advisory Sentencing Guidelines range will “seriously affect the fairness, integrity, or public reputation of judicial proceedings.”  Ante, at 1.  In other words, a defendant who does not alert the district court to a plain miscalculation of his Guidelines range—and is not happy with the sentence he receives—can raise the Guidelines error for the first time on appeal and ordinarily get another shot at a more favorable sentence.  The Court’s decision goes far beyond what was necessary to answer the question presented.[1]  And it contravenes long-established principles of plain-error review.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															Under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 52(b), “[a] plain error that affects substantial rights may be considered even though it was not brought to the court’s attention.”  (Emphasis added.)  The “point of the plain-error rule” is to “requir[e] defense counsel to be on his toes.”  United States v. Vonn,

535 U. S. 55, 73 (2002).  Its demanding standard is meant to “encourage timely objections and reduce wasteful reversals by demanding strenuous exertion to get relief for unpreserved error.”  United States v. Dominguez Benitez,

542 U. S. 74, 82 (2004).  If the standard were not stringent, there would be nothing “prevent[ing] a litigant from ‘ “sandbagging” ’ the court—remaining silent about his objection and belatedly raising the error only if the case does not conclude in his favor.”  Puckett v. United States,

556 U. S. 129, 134 (2009).  Satisfying the plain-error standard “is difficult, ‘as it should be.’ ”  Id., at 135.

															This Court has held that Rule 52(b) is satisfied only when four requirements are met: “(1) there is ‘an error,’ (2) the error is ‘plain,’ ” “(3) the error ‘affect[s] substantial rights,’ ” and “(4) . . . ‘the error “seriously affect[s] the fairness, integrity or public reputation of judicial proceedings.” ’ ”  Henderson v. United States,

568 U. S. 266, 272 (2013).  The fourth requirement—the one at issue here—is discretionary.  Ibid.  It should “be applied on a case-specific and fact-intensive basis.”  Puckett, supra, at 142.  And it cannot be satisfied by “a plain error affecting substantial rights . . . , without more, . . . for otherwise the discretion afforded by Rule 52(b) would be illusory.”  United States v. Olano,

507 U. S. 725, 737 (1993).  Instead, “only ‘particularly egregious errors’ ” will meet the fourth prong’s rigorous standard.  United States v. Young,

470 U. S. 1, 15 (1985) (quoting United States v. Frady,

456 U. S. 152, 163 (1982)); see also United States v. Atkinson,

297 U. S. 157, 160 (1936) (explaining that courts should provide relief under plain-error review only in “exceptional circumstances”).

															II

															The Court holds that Guidelines errors will “ordinar[ily]” satisfy the fourth prong of plain-error review.  Ante, at 15.  This result contravenes several established principles from our precedents.

															To begin, the Court’s decision is at odds with the principle that the fourth prong of plain-error review “be applied on a case-specific and fact-intensive basis.”  Puckett, supra, at 142.  By holding that a Guidelines error “ordinarily will satisfy [the] fourth prong” absent “countervailing factors,” ante, at 11, the Court creates what is essentially a rebuttable presumption that plain Guidelines errors satisfy Rule 52(b).  And, based on the Court’s application of it today, this presumption certainly must be difficult to rebut.  The Court matter-of-factly asserts, in a single sentence with no analysis, that “there are no [countervailing] factors” in this case that counsel in favor of affirmance.  Ante, at 11.  It does so without even discussing the particular details of the defendant’s crime, what happened at his sentencing, the reasoning that the District Court employed, the difference between the defendant’s calculated Guidelines range and the correct one, or where his sentence fell relative to the correct Guidelines range.  This approach is neither “case-specific” nor “fact-intensive.”  Puckett, supra, at 142.  The Court candidly admits as much.  See ante, at 11, n. 4.  But this is exactly the kind of “ ‘per se approach to plain-error review’ ” that we have consistently rejected.  Puckett, supra, at 142.

															The Court’s rebuttable presumption also renders the fourth prong of plain-error review “illusory” in most Guidelines cases.  Olano, supra, at 737.  The Court expressly states that Guidelines errors will satisfy the fourth prong in “the ordinary case.”  Ante, at 15.  But this Court has repeatedly held that the fourth prong limits courts’ discretion to “correct[ing] only ‘particularly egregious errors.’ ”  Young, supra, at 15.  Because Rule 52(b) “ ‘is not a run-of-the-mill remedy,’ ” Frady, supra, at 163, n. 14, relief should be granted “sparingly” in “ ‘the rare case,’ ” Jones v. United States,

527 U. S. 373, 389 (1999), and only in “exceptional circumstances,” Atkinson, supra, at 160.  Today’s decision turns that principle on its head by making relief available “in the ordinary case.”  Ante, at 1.

															The Court asserts that relief under plain-error review need not be exceptional or rare when a remand would not require “additional jury proceedings.”  Ante, at 12.  But that distinction has no basis in the text of Rule 52(b) or this Court’s precedents.  The only Rule 52(b) precedent that the Court cites for this assertion is Molina-Martinez v. United States, 578 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (slip op., at 15).  See ante, at 9.  That decision rejected the Fifth Circuit’s categorical rule requiring defendants to present “additional evidence” (beyond the Guidelines error itself) to prove prejudice under the third prong of plain-error review.  See 578 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 8–9).  In dicta it suggested that, “in the ordinary case,” the Guidelines error would be enough to satisfy the third prong’s requirement that the error affect substantial rights.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 15).  And it rebuffed the Government’s pragmatic “concern over the judicial resources needed” if Guidelines errors usually satisfy the third prong of plain-error review.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 14).  But Molina-Martinez did not discuss the fourth prong of plain-error review, which is at issue here and is an independent requirement, see Olano, supra, at 737.  Nor did it relax the plain-error standard whenever reversal would not require “additional jury proceedings.”  Ante, at 12.  Thus, Molina-Martinez gives no support to the Court’s innovation.

															Additionally, the Court’s encouragement of remands based on ordinary Guidelines errors undermines “the policies that underpin Rule 52(b).”  Dominguez Benitez, 542 U. S., at 82.  As explained, the plain-error standard encourages defendants to make timely objections in order to avoid sandbagging and to prevent wasteful reversals and remands.  After today, however, most defendants who fail to object to a Guidelines error will be in virtually the same position as those who do.  Today’s decision, especially when combined with Molina-Martinez, means that plain Guidelines errors will satisfy Rule 52(b) in all but the unusual case.  That creates the very opportunity for “sandbagging” that Rule 52(b) is supposed to prevent, Puckett, 556 U. S., at 134 (internal quotation marks omitted), by allowing a defendant who is aware of a mistake in the presentence report to “simply relax and wait to see if the sentence later str[ikes] him as satisfactory,” Vonn, 535 U. S., at 73.  Oddly, defendants who do not object to a Guidelines error could be in a better position than ones who do.  An objection would give the district court a chance to explain why it would “arrive at the same sentencing conclusion” even if the defendant was correct about an alleged Guidelines error, which would “mak[e] clear” that the Guidelines error did not “adversely affect the defendant’s ultimate sentence.”  United States v. Sabillon-Umana, 772 F. 3d 1328, 1334 (CA10 2014).  Today’s decision thus inverts Rule 52(b) by giving defendants an incentive to withhold timely objections and “ ‘game’ the system.”  Puckett, supra, at 140.

															III

															Even if it were appropriate to create rebuttable presumptions under the fourth prong of plain-error review, the Court is wrong to conclude that the “ordinary” Guidelines error will “seriously affect the fairness, integrity, or public reputation of judicial proceedings.”  Ante, at 1.  Whether a district court’s failure to correctly calculate the advisory Guidelines range satisfies the fourth prong of plain-error review will depend on the circumstances of each case.  And the circumstances of this case prove the folly of the Court’s presumption.

															A

															The Court asserts that plain Guidelines errors must ordinarily be corrected to ensure that defendants do not “linger longer in federal prison than the law demands.”  Ante, at 10 (internal quotation marks omitted).  But the Guidelines are not “law.”  They neither “define criminal offenses” nor “fix the permissible sentences for criminal offenses.”  Beckles v. United States, 580 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 5) (emphasis deleted).  Instead, they are purely “advisory” and “merely guide the district courts’ discretion.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 8).  They provide advice about what sentencing range the Sentencing Commission believes is appropriate, “but they ‘do not constrain’ ” district courts.  Ibid.  Accordingly, district courts are free to disagree with the Guidelines range, for reasons as simple as a policy disagreement with the Sentencing Commission.  See Pepper v. United States,

562 U. S. 476, 501 (2011);

18 U. S. C. §3661.  In fact, district courts commit reversible error if they “trea[t] the Guidelines as mandatory.”  Gall v. United States,

552 U. S. 38, 51 (2007).  Although the Guidelines range is one of the factors that courts must consider at sentencing,

18 U. S. C. §3553(a), judges need not give the Guidelines range any particular weight.  The only thing that “the law demands” is that a defendant’s sentence be substantively reasonable and within the applicable statutory range.  See Jones v. United States, 577 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2015) (Scalia, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari) (slip op., at 1–2); Kimbrough v. United States,

552 U. S. 85, 113–114 (2007) (Scalia, J.,  concurring).

															The Court also justifies its presumption by repeatedly stressing the importance of procedural rules to the public’s perception of judicial proceedings.  See ante, at 10 (“[T]he public legitimacy of our justice system relies on procedures”); ante, at 13 (“[U]njust procedures may well undermine public perception of [sentencing] proceedings”).  It even cites a hodgepodge of psychological studies on procedural justice.  Ante, at 13 (citing Hollander-Blumoff, The Psychology of Procedural Justice in the Federal Courts, 63 Hastings L. J. 127, 132–134 (2011) (Hollander-Blumoff)).

															Putting aside the obvious problems with this research,[2] the Court contradicts our precedents by suggesting that adhering to procedure has prime importance for purposes of the fourth prong.  This Court has repeatedly concluded that purely procedural errors—ones that likely did not affect the substantive outcome—do not satisfy the fourth prong of plain-error review.  In Johnson v. United States,

520 U. S. 461 (1997), for example, the District Court failed to submit a materiality element to the jury, but this Court found that the fourth prong of plain-error review was not   

															satisfied because “the evidence supporting materiality was ‘overwhelming.’ ”  Id., at 470.  Reversal based on errors that have no actual “ ‘effect on the judgment,’ ” this Court explained, “ ‘encourages litigants to abuse the judicial process and bestirs the public to ridicule it.’ ”  Ibid. (quoting R. Traynor, The Riddle of Harmless Error 50 (1970)).  Similarly, in United States v. Cotton,

535 U. S. 624 (2002), the indictment failed to allege a fact that increased the statutory maximum, but the evidence of that fact “was ‘overwhelming’ and ‘essentially uncontroverted.’ ”  Id., at 633.  This Court held that reversing a defendant’s sentence based on such a technicality would be “[t]he real threat . . . to the ‘fairness, integrity, and public reputation of judicial proceedings.’ ”  Id., at 634.  And in United States v. Marcus,

560 U. S. 258 (2010), the Second Circuit had held that an ex post facto error automatically satisfies the plain-error standard, “ ‘no matter how unlikely’ ” it was that the jury actually convicted the defendant based on conduct that predated the statute of conviction.  Id., at 261 (emphasis deleted).  In reversing that decision, this Court emphasized that, “in most circumstances, an error that does not affect the jury’s verdict does not significantly impugn the ‘fairness,’ ‘integrity,’ or ‘public reputation’ of the judicial process.”  Id., at 265–266.  Thus, the Court is mistaken when it asserts that, because Guidelines errors are procedural mistakes, they are particularly likely to implicate the fourth prong of plain error.

															B

															While the Court holds that the ordinary Guidelines error will satisfy the fourth prong of plain-error review, it admits that there can be “instances where countervailing factors” preclude defendants from satisfying the fourth prong.  Ante, at 11.  Because the Court does not question our existing plain-error precedents, see ante, at 12, the burden presumably remains on defendants to establish that there are no such countervailing factors, and to persuade the appellate court that any countervailing factor identified by the Government is insufficient.  See Vonn, 535 U. S., at 63 (“[A] defendant has the further burden to persuade the court that the error seriously affect[ed] the fairness, integrity or public reputation of judicial proceedings” (internal quotation marks omitted)); Dominguez Benitez, 542 U. S., at 82 (“[T]he burden of establishing entitlement to relief for plain error is on the defendant claiming it”).  But the Court does not explain what the defendant in this case has done to satisfy his burden.

															If this case is an ordinary one, it highlights the folly of the Court’s new rebuttable presumption.  Petitioner Florencio Rosales-Mireles has a penchant for entering this country illegally and committing violent crimes—especially against women.  A Mexican citizen, Rosales-Mireles entered the United States illegally in 1997.  In 2002, he was convicted of assault for throwing his girlfriend to the floor of their apartment and dragging her outside by her hair.  In 2009, he was convicted of aggravated assault with serious bodily injury and assault causing bodily injury to a family member.[3]  His convictions stemmed from an altercation in which he attempted to stab one man and did stab another—once in the shoulder and twice in the chest.  In January 2010, Rosales-Morales was removed to Mexico.  But that same month he reentered the United States illegally.  In 2015, he was convicted in Texas state court of assaulting his wife and 14-year-old son.  During the altercation, Rosales-Mireles grabbed his wife by the hair and punched her in the face repeatedly.

															 

															Most recently, Rosales-Mireles pleaded guilty to illegal reentry.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1326(a), (b)(2).  The District Court sentenced him to 78 months in prison, which was within the Guidelines range he argued for on appeal.  See ante, at 4.  In choosing that sentence, the District Court emphasized that it was “the second time he’s come to the courts for being here illegally”; that he had “attempted to hide in the United States with multiple aliases, birth dates, [and] Social Security numbers”; and that his “assaultive behavior” spanned from “at least . . . 2001 to 2015.”  App. 20.

															The sentence that Rosales-Mireles received was not only within both the improperly and properly calculated Guidelines ranges but also in the bottom half of both possible ranges.  See ante, at 4.  If the District Court had used the proper Guidelines range at his initial sentencing, then the sentence that it ultimately gave Rosales-Mireles would have been presumptively reasonable on appeal.  See 850 F. 3d 246, 250 (CA5 2017); Rita v. United States,

551 U. S. 338, 347 (2007).  And the Fifth Circuit determined that his sentence was in fact reasonable.  See 850 F. 3d, at 250–251.  Leaving that reasonable sentence in place would not “ ‘seriously affect the fairness, integrity, or public reputation of judicial proceedings.’ ”  Young, 470 U. S., at 15.  A sentence that is substantively reasonable is hardly the kind of “particularly egregious erro[r]” that warrants plain-error relief.  Frady, 456 U. S., at 163.

															*  *  *

															Rule 52(b) strikes a “careful balance . . . between judicial efficiency and the redress of injustice.”  Puckett, 556 U. S., at 135.  Because today’s decision upsets that balance for scores of cases involving Guidelines errors, I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 We granted certiorari to decide whether “the fourth prong of plain error review [demands], as the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals required, that the error be one that ‘would shock the conscience of the common man, serve as a powerful indictment against our system of justice, or seriously call into question the competence or integrity of the district judge.’ ”  Pet. for Cert. i; 582 U. S. ___ (2017).  Although I doubt it changed the outcome in any case, I agree that the Fifth Circuit’s standard is higher than the one articulated in this Court’s precedents—at least to the extent it requires an uncorrected error to “shock the conscience.”  See ante, at 5–7. 

2
 The article that the Court cites makes broad claims based on limited research.  For instance, the article states that, “[w]hen people feel that they have received fair treatment, they are more likely to adhere to, accept, and feel satisfied with a given outcome, and to view the system that gave rise to that outcome as legitimate.”  Hollander-Blumoff, 134.  But the only support it provides for that proposition is a telephone survey of a few hundred Chicago residents.  See id., at 134, n. 37 (citing T. Tyler, Why People Obey the Law 162 (2006)); see also id., at 8–15 (explaining the study’s methodology).  The article also draws conclusions about the general importance of “procedural justice” in court, based on marginally relevant studies of noncourt settings such as “arbitration and mediation,” interactions with “police officers” and “work supervisors,” and “highly relational settings like the family.”  See Hollander-Blumoff 132–134.  Crucially, none of this research has any bearing on the far more complicated question of “procedural justice” at issue here: whether it is presumptively unfair to penalize a defendant who fails to object to an error until appeal.  The contemporaneous-objection rule, after all, is also a procedural rule that affects the fairness, integrity, and reputation of judicial proceedings. 

3
 These assaults occurred in 2001, but Rosales-Mireles was not arrested for years—apparently because he was going by the name “Emilio Ruiz” at the time of the assaults.  When Rosales-Mireles was eventually arrested in 2009, he had two outstanding warrants for other assaults of his wife. 


