::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-067
::decision_cite:: 17-155
::decision_name::  Hughes v. United States
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–155

															_________________

															ERIK LINDSEY HUGHES, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[June 4, 2018]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Alito join, dissenting.

															Seven years ago, four Justices took the position that a defendant sentenced to a term of imprisonment specified in a binding plea agreement may have been sentenced “based on” a Sentencing Guidelines range, simply because the district court must consider the Guidelines in deciding whether to accept the agreement.  Freeman v. United States,

564 U. S. 522, 529–530 (2011) (plurality opinion).  That view has since garnered more votes, but has not gotten any more persuasive.

															A defendant is eligible for a sentence reduction following a retroactive Guidelines amendment if he was “sentenced to a term of imprisonment based on a sentencing range that has subsequently been lowered by the Sentencing Commission.”

18 U. S. C. §3582(c)(2).  When a defendant enters into a binding “Type-C” plea agreement pursuant to Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 11(c)(1)(C), however, the resulting sentence is “dictated by the terms of the agreement entered into by the parties, not the judge’s Guidelines calculation.”  Freeman, 564 U. S., at 536 (Sotomayor, J., concurring in judgment).  Five Justices recognized as much in Freeman. See ibid.; id., at 544 (Roberts, C. J., dissenting).

															If a defendant pleads guilty pursuant to a Type-C agreement specifying a particular term of imprisonment, the district court may sentence him only to that term.  See Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 11(c)(1)(C) (the parties’ choice of an “appropriate” sentence “binds the court once the court accepts the plea agreement”).  If the judge considers the parties’ chosen sentence to be inappropriate, he does not have discretion to impose a different one.  Instead, the court’s only option is to reject the agreement and afford the defendant the opportunity to be released from his guilty plea.  See Fed. Rules Crim. Proc. 11(c)(3)(A), (4), (5).

															As the Court points out, a district court considering whether to accept a Type-C agreement must consult the Guidelines, as the District Court did here.  Ante, at 5; see App. to Pet. for Cert. 32a–36a.  But “when determining the sentence to impose,” the district court may base its decision on “one thing and one thing only—the plea agreement.”  Freeman, 564 U. S., at 545 (Roberts, C. J., dissenting).  The Court characterizes this distinction as “artificial,” arguing that the district court’s ultimate imposition of a sentence often has as much to do with its Guidelines calculation as anything else.  Ante, at 13; see ante, at 10–11.  But that is not so: With a Type-C agreement, the sentence is set by the parties, not by a judge applying the Guidelines.  Far from being “artificial,” that distinction is central to what makes a Type-C plea a Type-C plea.  “In the (C) agreement context” it is “the binding plea agreement that is the foundation for the term of imprisonment.”  Freeman, 564 U. S., at 535 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.).  “To hold otherwise would be to contravene the very purpose of (C) agreements—to bind the district court and allow the Government and the defendant to determine what sentence he will receive.”  Id., at 536.

															That commonsense understanding accords with our reading of the phrase “based upon” in the context of deciding when a cause of action is based upon particular conduct.  In Saudi Arabia v. Nelson,

507 U. S. 349 (1993), we considered a provision in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 providing an exception to a foreign state’s immunity when “the action is based upon a commercial activity carried on in the United States by the foreign state.”

28 U. S. C. §1605(a)(2).  We said that the phrase did not encompass a foreign state’s activity that “led to” the tortious conduct.  507 U. S., at 358.  Instead, we interpreted the phrase to refer only to the conduct that forms “the ‘basis,’ ” or “foundation,” of the cause of action—that is, “the ‘gravamen of the complaint.’ ”  Id., at 357.  And as we explained, the “torts, and not the arguably commercial activities that preceded their commission, form the basis for the [plaintiffs’] suit.”  Id., at 358.  So too here:  The Type-C agreement, and not the Guidelines calculation that preceded its acceptance, forms the basis for the sentence.

															More recently, in OBB Personenverkehr AG v. Sachs, 577 U. S. ___ (2015), we found that a cause of action was not “based upon” commercial activity when the activity established just one element of the action.  The phrase “based upon,” we explained, instead looks to “the core of [the] suit” and what the claims “turn on.”  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 7–8).  Here the sentence that petitioner Hughes received “turned on” the agreement, not the Guidelines or anything else.

															The Court finds new justification for its interpretation in Peugh v. United States,

569 U. S. 530 (2013), and Molina-Martinez v. United States, 578 U. S. ___ (2016).  But those cases—which do not concern the language of §3582(c)(2) or sentencing pursuant to Type-C agreements—do not inform the distinct question at hand.  I agree that when a district court has discretion to select an appropriate sentence, the resulting sentence can often be said to be based on the advisory Guidelines range.  See Peugh, 569 U. S., at 541 (describing sentences under the post-Booker scheme as “anchored by the Guidelines,” see United States v. Booker, 

543 U. S. 220 (2005)); Molina-Martinez, 578 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15) (“[i]n the ordinary case” the Guidelines “anchor the court’s discretion in selecting an appropriate sentence”).  But there are circumstances where the district court’s discretion is confined such that the Guidelines range does not play a meaningful part in the ultimate determination of the defendant’s sentence.  One such scenario is when an applicable mandatory minimum supersedes the Guidelines range.  See Koons v. United States, ___ U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 2) (a Guidelines range can be “overridden” by “a congressionally mandated minimum sentence”).  Another is the situation before us, where Rule 11(c)(1)(C) compels the district court to sentence the defendant to a term chosen by the parties, or none at all.

															Finally, as five Members of this Court recognized in Freeman, “[a]llowing district courts later to reduce a term of imprisonment simply because the court itself considered the Guidelines in deciding whether to accept the agreement would transform §3582(c)(2) into a mechanism by which courts could rewrite the terms of (C) agreements in ways not contemplated by the parties.”  564 U. S., at 536–537 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); see id., at 545 (Roberts, C. J., dissenting).  The Court dismisses this point as having “nothing to do with whether a defendant’s sentence was based on the Sentencing Guidelines.”  Ante, at 12.  But of course it does.  The very purpose of a Type-C agreement is to present the defendant’s sentence to the district court on a take-it-or-leave-it basis, preventing the district judge from altering the sentence as he sees fit.  The Court’s interpretation of §3582(c)(2) allows for just such revision, possibly many years down the line, when the Government has already fulfilled its side of the bargain.

															The Court justifies this result by arguing that its rule ensures that “those who commit crimes of similar severity under similar conditions receive similar sentences.”  Ante, at 11.  But that ignores the crucial way in which Type-C defendants are not similarly situated to other defendants.  They entered into binding agreements—based on the unique facts of their cases and their negotiations with prosecutors—and received benefits (often quite significant ones) that other defendants do not.  The facts of this case provide a striking illustration.  In exchange for the certainty of a binding 180-month sentence, the Government not only dropped additional charges against Hughes, but also promised not to pursue a recidivist enhancement that would have imprisoned him for life.

															The Court stresses that the question presented concerns only a Type-C defendant’s eligibility under §3582(c)(2), and that the district court might exercise its discretion to deny a reduction if it “concludes that it would have imposed the same sentence even if the defendant had been subject to the lower range.”  Ante, at 14; see ante, at 13 (suggesting that the district court “can consider the benefits the defendant gained by entering a Type-C agreement” in deciding “whether a reduction is appropriate”).  But even if the district court ultimately decides against a reduction, the Government will be forced to litigate the issue in the meantime—nullifying another of its benefits from the Type-C agreement.  To secure the sentence to which the parties already agreed, the Government likely will have to recreate the state of play from the original plea negotiations and sentencing to make counterfactual “what if” arguments—which, naturally, the defendant will then try to rebut.  Settling this debate is unlikely to be as straightforward as the Court anticipates.

															The point is a very practical one: Hughes pleaded guilty and entered into a binding agreement because he otherwise was looking at life in prison.  Although the District Court dutifully performed the required Guidelines calculations, Hughes’s sentence was based on the agreement, not the Guidelines range.  Hughes should not receive a windfall benefit because that range has been changed.

															The Government may well be able to limit the frustrating effects of today’s decision in the long run.  Going forward, it presumably can add a provision to every Type-C agreement in which the defendant agrees to waive any right to seek a sentence reduction following future Guidelines amendments.  See Brief for Petitioner 34–35 (referring to the possibility of such an “explicit waiver”).  But that is no comfort when it comes to cases like this one, where the parties understood their choice of sentence to be binding.

															I respectfully dissent.
													
