::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-069
::decision_cite:: 17-130
::decision_name::  Lucia v. Securities and Exchange Commission
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–130

															_________________

															RAYMOND J. LUCIA, et al., PETITIONERS v. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit

															[June 21, 2018]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins, dissenting.

															The Court today and scholars acknowledge that this Court’s Appointments Clause jurisprudence offers little guidance on who qualifies as an “Officer of the United States.”  See, e.g., ante, at 6 (“The standard is no doubt framed in general terms, tempting advocates to add whatever glosses best suit their arguments”); Plecnik, Officers Under the Appointments Clause, 11 Pitt. Tax Rev. 201, 204 (2014).  The lack of guidance is not without consequence.  “[Q]uestions about the Clause continue to arise regularly both in the operation of the Executive Branch and in proposed legislation.”  31 Opinion of Office of Legal Counsel 73, 76 (2007) (Op. OLC).  This confusion can undermine the reliability and finality of proceedings and result in wasted resources.  See ante, at 12–13 (opinion of the Court) (ordering the Commission to grant petitioners a new administrative hearing).

															As the majority notes, see ante, at 5–6, this Court’s decisions currently set forth at least two prerequisites to officer status: (1) an individual must hold a “continuing” office established by law, United States v. Germaine,

99 U. S. 508, 511–512 (1879), and (2) an individual must wield “significant authority,” Buckley v. Valeo,

424 U. S. 1, 126 (1976) (per curiam).  The first requirement is relatively easy to grasp; the second, less so.  To be sure, to exercise “significant authority,” the person must wield considerable powers in comparison to the average person who works for the Federal Government.  As this Court has noted, the vast majority of those who work for the Federal Government are not “Officers of the United States.”  See Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Bd.,

561 U. S. 477, 506, n. 9 (2010) (indicating that well over 90% of those who render services to the Federal Government and are paid by it are not constitutional officers).  But this Court’s decisions have yet to articulate the types of powers that will be deemed significant enough to constitute “significant authority.”

															To provide guidance to Congress and the Executive Branch, I would hold that one requisite component of “significant authority” is the ability to make final, binding decisions on behalf of the Government.  Accordingly, a person who merely advises and provides recommendations to an officer would not herself qualify as an officer.

															There is some historical support for such a requirement.  For example, in 1822, the Supreme Judicial Court of Maine opined in the “fullest early explication” of the meaning of an “ ‘office,’ ” that “ ‘the term “office” implies a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power to, and possession of it by the person filling the office,’ ” that “ ‘in its effects[,] . . . will bind the rights of others.’ ”  31 Op. OLC 83 (quoting 3 Greenl. (Me.) 481, 482).  In 1899, a Report of the Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives noted that “the creation and conferring of an office involves a delegation to the individual of . . . sovereign functions,” i.e., “the power to . . . legislate, . . . execute law, or . . . hear and determine judicially questions submitted.”  1 A. Hinds, Precedents of the House of Representatives of the United States 607 (1907).  Those who merely assist others in exercising sovereign functions but who do not have the authority to exercise sovereign powers themselves do not wield significant authority.  Id., at 607–608.  Consequently, a person who possesses the “mere power to investigate some particular subject and report thereon” or to engage in negotiations “without [the] power to make binding” commitments on behalf of the Government is not an officer.  Ibid.

															Confirming that final decisionmaking authority is a prerequisite to officer status would go a long way to aiding Congress and the Executive Branch in sorting out who is an officer and who is a mere employee.  At the threshold, Congress and the Executive Branch could rule out as an officer any person who investigates, advises, or recommends, but who has no power to issue binding policies, execute the laws, or finally resolve adjudicatory questions.

															Turning to the question presented here, it is true that the administrative law judges (ALJs) of the Securities and Exchange Commission wield “extensive powers.”  Ante, at 2.  They preside over adversarial proceedings that can lead to the imposition of significant penalties on private parties.  See ante, at 2–3 (noting that the proceedings in the present case resulted in the imposition of $300,000 in civil penalties, as well as a lifetime bar from the investment industry).  In the hearings over which they preside, Commission ALJs also exercise discretion with respect to important matters.  See ante, at 2 (discussing Commission ALJs’ powers to supervise discovery, issue subpoenas, rule on the admissibility of evidence, hear and examine witnesses, and regulate the course of the proceedings).

															Nevertheless, I would hold that Commission ALJs are not officers because they lack final decisionmaking authority.  As the Commission explained below, the Commission retains “ ‘plenary authority over the course of [its] administrative proceedings and the rulings of [its] law judges.’ ”  In re Raymond J. Lucia Companies, Inc. & Raymond J. Lucia, Sr., SEC Release No. 75837 (Sept. 3, 2015).  Commission ALJs can issue only “initial” decisions.  5 U. S. C. §557(b).  The Commission can review any initial decision upon petition or on its own initiative.

15 U. S. C. §78d–1(b).  The Commission’s review of an ALJ’s initial decision is de novo.

5 U. S. C. §557(c).  It can “make any findings or conclusions that in its judgment are proper and on the basis of the record.”  17 CFR §201.411(a) (2017).  The Commission is also in no way confined by the record initially developed by an ALJ.  The Commission can accept evidence itself or refer a matter to an ALJ to take additional evidence that the Commission deems relevant or necessary.  See ibid.; §201.452.  In recent years, the Commission has accepted review in every case in which it was sought.  See R. Jackson, Fact and Fiction: The SEC’s Oversight of Administrative Law Judges (Mar. 9, 2018), http://clsbluesky.law.columbia.edu/2018/03/09/fact-and-fiction- the-secs-oversight-of-administrative-law-judges/ (as last visited June 19, 2018).  Even where the Commission does not review an ALJ’s initial decision, as in cases in which no party petitions for review and the Commission does not act sua sponte, the initial decision still only becomes final when the Commission enters a finality order.  17 CFR. §201.360(d)(2).  And by operation of law, every action taken by an ALJ “shall, for all purposes, . . . be deemed the action of the Commission.”

15 U. S. C. §78d–1(c) (emphasis added).  In other words, Commission ALJs do not exercise significant authority because they do not, and cannot, enter final, binding decisions against the Government or third parties.

															The majority concludes that this case is controlled by Freytag v. Commissioner,

501 U. S. 868 (1991).  See ante, at 6.  In Freytag, the Court suggested that the Tax Court’s special trial judges (STJs) acted as constitutional officers even in cases where they could not enter final, binding decisions.  In such cases, the Court noted, the STJs presided over adversarial proceedings in which they exercised “significant discretion” with respect to “important functions,” such as ruling on the admissibility of evidence and hearing and examining witnesses.  501 U. S., at 881–882.  That part of the opinion, however, was unnecessary to the result.  The Court went on to conclude that even if the STJs’ duties in such cases were “not as significant as [the Court] found them to be,” its conclusion “would be unchanged.”  Id., at 882.  The Court noted that STJs could enter final decisions in certain types of cases, and that the Government had conceded that the STJs acted as officers with respect to those proceedings.  Ibid.  Because STJs could not be “officers for purposes of some of their duties . . . , but mere employees with respect to other[s],” the Court held they were officers in all respects.  Ibid.  Freytag is, therefore, consistent with a rule that a prerequisite to officer status is the authority, in at least some instances, to issue final decisions that bind the Government or third parties.[1]

															Because I would conclude that Commission ALJs are not officers for purposes of the Appointments Clause, it is not necessary to reach the constitutionality of their removal protections.  See ante, at 1 (Breyer, J., concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in part).  In any event, for at least the reasons stated in Justice Breyer’s opinion, Free Enterprise Fund is readily distinguishable from the circumstances at play here.  See ante, at 3–9.

															As a final matter, although I would conclude that Commission ALJs are not officers, I share Justice Breyer’s concerns regarding the Court’s choice of remedy, and so I join Part III of his opinion.

															For the foregoing reasons, I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 Even the majority opinion is not inconsistent with such a rule, in that it appears to conclude, wrongly in my view, that Commission ALJs can at times render final decisions.  See ante, at 10. 


