::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-022
::decision_cite:: 17-1498
::decision_name::  Atlantic Richfield Co. v. Christian
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–1498

															_________________

															ATLANTIC RICHFIELD COMPANY, PETITIONER v. GREGORY A. CHRISTIAN, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of montana

															[April 20, 2020]

															

															Justice Alito, concurring in part and dissenting in part.

															I agree with the Court that the judgment below must be reversed, and I join all of the Court’s opinion except Part II–B.  I thus agree with the Court that we possess jurisdiction to decide this case.  See ante, at 8.  I also agree that the landowners are potentially responsible parties under §122(e)(6) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and, as a result, cannot bring their Montana restoration damages claim without the consent of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).  See ante, at 13–21.  At this point, however, I am not willing to endorse the Court’s holding in Part II–B that state courts have jurisdiction to entertain “challenges” to EPA-approved CERCLA plans.

															I

															I would not decide that question because it is neither necessary nor prudent for us to do so.  As I understand the Court’s opinion, the Montana Supreme Court has two options on remand: (1) enter a stay to allow the landowners to seek EPA approval or (2) enter judgment against the landowners on their restoration damages claim without prejudice to their ability to refile if they obtain EPA approval.  Either way, the case cannot proceed without the EPA’s blessing.  And because the EPA has submitted multiple filings indicating that it believes that the landowners’ plan presents serious environmental risks, it is likely that the EPA will not approve that plan, and the case will then die.  If that happens, the question of the state courts’ jurisdiction will be academic.

															Alternatively, if the EPA approves the landowners’ plan, either in full or to a degree that they find satisfactory, they may not wish to press this litigation.  And if they do choose to go forward, the question of state-court jurisdiction can be decided at that time.

															For these reasons, there is no need to reach out and decide the question now,[1] and there are good reasons not to do so.  While the question of state-court jurisdiction may turn out not to matter in this case, that question may have important implications in other cases.  Specifically, if the fears expressed by the Government materialize, state courts and juries, eager to serve local interests, may disregard the EPA’s expert judgment regarding the best plan for a CERCLA site and may mandate relief that exacerbates environmental problems.  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 20–22, 29–30; App. to Pet. for Cert. 72a–74a.  Thus, much is potentially at stake, and the question whether CERCLA allows state courts to entertain suits like the one in this case depends on the interpretation of devilishly difficult statutory provisions, CERCLA §§113(b) and (h), 42 U. S. C. §§9613(b) and (h).

															With much at stake, we should be confident that our answer is correct, and we have no basis for such confidence here.  The question of state-court jurisdiction is only one of many in this case, and the briefing and argument on that issue left important questions without fully satisfactory answers.  The Court tries to clear up what §113 means, but as I will attempt to show, the Court’s interpretation presents serious problems.  Under these circumstances, the better course is not to decide this perplexing question at this juncture.

															II

															A

															CERCLA §113 is like a puzzle with pieces that are exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to fit together.  Here is what these provisions say, with language that is not pertinent for present purposes omitted:

															

															“(b) Jurisdiction; venue

															“Except as provided in subsectio [n] . . . (h) of this section [and another provision not relevant for present purposes], the United States district courts shall have exclusive original jurisdiction over all controversies arising under this chapter, without regard to the citizenship of the parties or the amount in controversy. . . .

															.     .     .     .     .

															 “(h) Timing of review

															“No Federal court shall have jurisdiction under Federal law other than under section 1332 of title 28 (relating to diversity of citizenship jurisdiction) or under State law which is applicable or relevant and appropriate under section 9621 of this title [CERCLA §121,

42 U. S. C. §9621] (relating to cleanup standards) to review any challenges to removal or remedial action selected under section 9604 of this title, or to review any order issued under section 9606(a) of this title [concerning emergency measures ordered by the President], in any action except one of [a list of specific CERCLA provisions].”

42 U. S. C. §9613.

															For present purposes, the pertinent parts are as follows:

															

															First, §113(b) sets out a general rule conferring on the federal district courts exclusive jurisdiction over claims “arising under” CERCLA.  And it does so “without regard to the citizenship of the parties or the amount in controversy.”

															Second, §§113(b) and (h), taken together, reduce this grant of jurisdiction by taking away jurisdiction over most claims that “challeng [e]” a “removal or remedial action.”

															Third, this reduction does not apply to a challenge to removal or remedial action if it is brought under the diversity jurisdiction statute,

28 U. S. C. §1332.

															Fourth, this reduction also does not apply to a challenge to removal or remedial action if it is brought in federal court “under State law which is applicable or relevant and appropriate under [§121] (relating to cleanup standards).”  Under §121, cleanup standards must comply with certain state-law requirements, and thus the thrust of this last provision seems to be that a removal or remedial action may be challenged in federal court for noncompliance with such requirements.

															With these pieces laid out, we may consider how the Court and respondents, on the one hand, and the Government and petitioner, on the other, try to fit them together.

															B

															The logical first step in any effort to understand how §§113(b) and (h) apply to the landowners’ state-law restoration damages claim is to determine whether the claim falls within the scope of the exclusive jurisdiction that §113(b) confers on the federal district courts—in other words, whether such a claim is one that “aris[es] under” CERCLA.  If it does not, then that ends the inquiry.  And that is what the Court holds.  Ante, at 8–9.

															The Court interprets the phrase “arising under” in §113(b) to mean the same thing as that phrase means in the federal-question jurisdiction statute,

28 U. S. C. §1331.  Under that provision, as the Court puts it, “[i]n the mine run of cases, ‘[a] suit arises under the law that creates the cause of action.’ ”  Ante, at 9 (quoting American Well Works Co. v. Layne & Bowler Co.,

241 U.S. 257, 260 (1916)).  Thus, the Court concludes, a claim arises under CERCLA only if it is based on CERCLA, and since the landowners’ restoration damages claim is based on Montana law, it is obviously not based on CERCLA and does not fall within the exclusive jurisdiction conferred on the district courts by §113(b).  This makes short work of the question of state-court jurisdiction, but it presents serious problems.

															First, it cannot explain why §113(b) says that the jurisdiction it confers is “without regard to the citizenship of the parties or the amount in controversy.”  If that jurisdiction is limited to claims that are based on CERCLA, district courts have jurisdiction to entertain all those claims under

28 U. S. C. §1331, which does not require either diversity or any minimum amount in controversy.  So why go out of the way to say that §113(b) jurisdiction does not require diversity or any minimum amount in controversy?  The only logical reason is to ensure that the provision covers suits that could not be brought under

28 U. S. C. §1331.  Thus, §113(b) jurisdiction must be broader than general federal-question jurisdiction.  By denying this, the Court’s interpretation turns the phrase “without regard to the citizenship of the parties or the amount in controversy” into a meaningless and useless appendage.

															Second, under the Court’s interpretation, there is no reason why §113(h) should specify that its reduction of the scope of the jurisdiction conferred by §113(b) does not affect a district court’s jurisdiction in diversity cases.  If the jurisdiction granted by §113(b) is limited to claims based on CERCLA, why would anyone think that it had any impact on state-law claims?[2]

															Third, if the jurisdiction conferred by §113(b) is limited to claims based on CERCLA, it is unclear how a district court could entertain a claim “under State law which is applicable or relevant and appropriate under [§121] (relating to cleanup standards).”  Yet §113(h) exempts such a claim from its general withdrawal of jurisdiction over challenges to removal or remedial action.  It seems clear that Congress did not regard these claims as claims under CERCLA itself, since it describes them as “under State law” and did not include them on the list of claims under CERCLA that it likewise exempted from §113(h)’s general withdrawal of jurisdiction over challenges to removal or remedial action.  §§113(h)(1)–(5).  These three problems raise serious doubt about the correctness of the Court’s interpretation.[3]

															C

															The Government and petitioner advance a different interpretation of §§113(b) and (h), and although this interpretation solves the problems noted above, it has problems of its own.  The Court, as noted, runs into trouble by interpreting the phrase “arising under” CERCLA in §113(b) to mean what “arising under” means in

28 U. S. C. §1331.  The Government obviates this difficulty by arguing that “arising under” in §113(b) has a broader meaning, such as the meaning of the same phrase in Article III of the Constitution.  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 23–24.  The Government suggests that “arising under” in §113(b) may reach “ ‘any case or controversy that might call for the application of federal law.’ ”  Id., at 24 (quoting Verlinden B. V. v. Central Bank of Nigeria,

461 U.S. 480, 492 (1983)).  If §113(b) uses the phrase in something like this sense, the jurisdiction it confers can reach some claims under state law, and that would explain §113(b)’s specification that this jurisdiction is not dependent on either diversity or amount in controversy.  In other words, this language makes clear that federal district courts have jurisdiction to hear these state-law claims without the restrictions that usually apply when federal courts entertain such claims.

															Up to this point, the interpretation favored by the Government and petitioner proceeds smoothly, but it stumbles when it moves from §113(b) to §113(h).  That provision reduces the grant of jurisdiction in §113(b) by taking away jurisdiction over challenges to removal and remedial action unless, among other things, those claims are brought in a diversity action.  The upshot is that federal district courts are left with jurisdiction over most state-law claims that challenge removal and remedial action only where the parties are diverse.[4]  If it turns out that diversity is lacking, the district courts cannot entertain the same claims.  And not only that.  Because §113(b)’s grant of jurisdiction to the federal district courts is exclusive, the state courts cannot entertain those claims either.

															It is hard to fathom why Congress might have wanted such a scheme.  Congress might have wanted all the state-law claims covered by §113(b) to be heard exclusively in federal court in order to prevent state courts and juries from unduly favoring home-state interests.  But having granted the federal district courts jurisdiction to hear these claims in §113(b), why would Congress take away that jurisdiction in cases where the parties happen not to be diverse?  And why would Congress go further and prevent the state courts from hearing these claims?  The Government and petitioner provide no answer, and none is apparent.

															III

															The Court gives three reasons for resolving the question of state-court jurisdiction.  See ante, at 9, n. 3.  None is compelling.

															First, the Court explains that “Atlantic Richfield seeks more than a remand,” namely, it seeks a remand with instructions to dismiss on jurisdictional grounds.  Ibid.  But Atlantic Richfield presented its §122(e)(6) theory as an alternate ground for reversal, and has prevailed on that basis.  As Atlantic Richfield’s counsel stated at argument, the §122(e)(6) ruling is “sufficient to resolve the case.”  Tr. of Oral Arg. 17–18.

															Second, the Court says, “leaving the [§113] question unanswered . . . would leave the parties in a state of uncertainty.”  Ante, at 9, n. 3.  But, as described above, there appears to be a slim chance that this case will, at least in its current state, “procee[d]” in the Montana courts.  Ibid.

															Third, the Court suggests that the grant of review, briefing, and argument on §113 may warrant resolving the question of state-court jurisdiction.  Ibid.  But that presentation has not cleared up serious issues surrounding §§113(b) and (h).  And sunk costs cannot justify a departure from our usual practice of “deciding only what is necessary to the disposition of the immediate case.”  Whitehouse v. Illinois Central R. Co.,

349 U.S. 366, 373 (1955).

															*  *  *

															Section 113 may simply be a piece of very bad draftsmanship, with pieces that cannot be made to fit together.  Or it may be a puzzle with a solution that neither the parties, the Court, nor I have been able to solve.  In a later case, briefing and argument may provide answers that have thus far eluded us.  Since we are not required to attempt an answer in this case, the prudent course is to hold back.
Notes
1
 We may not decide the merits of a case without assuring ourselves that we have jurisdiction, Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment,

523 U.S. 83, 94–95 (1998), but nothing requires us to decide whether the Montana courts have jurisdiction before remanding, see S. Shapiro et al., Supreme Court Practice §3.26, p. 3–94 (11th ed. 2019); cf. Andresen v. Maryland,

427 U.S. 463, 469, n. 4 (1976) (declining to address question presented “does not, of course, affect our jurisdiction”). 

2
 The Court answers that §§113(b) and (h), though partially overlapping, are “independent” of each other.  Ante, at 13, and n. 6.  But this conclusion rests on an uneasy premise: that §113(b) pertains only to causes of action based on CERCLA.  There is reason to doubt that this is the best reading of the statute.  See supra, at 4–5 and this page. 

3
 The Court chalks up §113(b)’s references to amount in controversy and party citizenship to a “belt and suspenders” approach.  Ante, at 10, n. 5.  As the Court sees it, Congress must have wanted to make especially clear that “all CERCLA lawsuits,” no matter the amount in dispute or the citizenship of the parties, would be welcome in (and limited to) those courts.  Ibid. It is true that “instances of surplusage are not unknown” in federal statutes.  Arlington Central School Dist. Bd. of Ed. v. Murphy,

548 U.S. 291, 299, n. 1 (2006).  But it is also the case that the Court usually seeks to “avoid a reading which renders some words altogether redundant.”  Gustafson v. Alloyd Co.,

513 U.S. 561, 574 (1995).  In interpreting §113, one way to avoid redundancy is to acknowledge the interlocking relationship between §§113(b) and (h).  Section 113(b) refers to the hallmarks of diversity jurisdiction (amount in controversy and diversity), and §113(h) makes clear that its clawback of jurisdiction over some “challenges” to EPA plans does not affect state-law claims that satisfy

28 U. S. C. §1332. 

4
 They also retain jurisdiction over claims “under State law which is applicable or relevant and appropriate under [§121] (relating to cleanup standards).”  §113(h). 


