::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-016
::decision_cite:: 17-1678
::decision_name::  Hernandez v. Mesa
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Ginsburg
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–1678

															_________________

															JESUS C. HERNANDEZ, et al., PETITIONERS v. JESUS MESA, Jr.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[February 25, 2020]

															

															Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Breyer, Justice Sotomayor, and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															In Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents,

403 U.S. 388 (1971), this Court held that injured plaintiffs could pursue claims for damages against U. S. officers for conduct disregarding constitutional constraints.  The instant suit, invoking Bivens, arose in tragic circumstances.  In 2010, the complaint alleges, a Mexican teenager was playing with friends in a culvert along the United States-Mexico border.  A U. S. Border Patrol agent, in violation of instructions controlling his office and situated on the U. S. side of the border, shot and killed the youth on the Mexican side.  The boy’s parents sued the officer for damages in federal court, alleging that a rogue federal law enforcement officer’s unreasonable use of excessive force violated the Fourth and
 
Fifth Amendments.  At the time of the incident, it is uncontested, the officer did not know whether the boy he shot was a U. S. national or a citizen of another land.  See Hernández v. Mesa, 582 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2017) (per curiam) (slip op., at 5–6).

															When the case first reached this Court, the Court remanded it, instructing the Court of Appeals to resolve a threshold question: Is a Bivens remedy available to noncitizens (here, the victim’s parents) when the U. S. officer acted stateside, but the impact of his alleged wrongdoing was suffered abroad?  To that question, the sole issue now before this Court, I would answer “yes.”  Rogue U. S. officer conduct falls within a familiar, not a “new,” Bivens setting.  Even if the setting could be characterized as “new,” plaintiffs lack recourse to alternative remedies, and no “special factors” counsel against a Bivens remedy.  Neither U. S. foreign policy nor national security is in fact endangered by the litigation.  Moreover, concerns attending the application of our law to conduct occurring abroad are not involved, for plaintiffs seek the application of U. S. law to conduct occurring inside our borders.  I would therefore hold that the plaintiffs’ complaint crosses the Bivens threshold.

															I

															Because this case was resolved on a motion to dismiss, I accept the complaint’s allegations, next set out, as true.  In 2010, Sergio Adrián Hernández Güereca, a 15-year-old citizen of Mexico, was playing with his friends in the dry culvert that divides El Paso, Texas, from Ciudad Juarez, Mexico.  The international boundary line runs down the center of the culvert, but the only visible border-related features are fences and border-crossing posts that sit atop each side.  See Hernández, 582 U. S., at ___ (Breyer, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 2).  The game Hernández and his friends were playing involved running up the embankment on the United States side, touching the barbed-wire fence, and running back down to the Mexican side.  While the game was ongoing, Border Patrol Agent Jesus Mesa, Jr., appeared on his bicycle and detained one of Hernández’s friends as he was running down the embankment on the U. S. side.  Hernández, who was unarmed, retreated into Mexican territory.  Mesa pointed his weapon across the border, “seemingly taking careful aim,” and fired at least two shots.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 199.  At least one of the shots struck Hernández in the face, killing him.

															Hernández’s parents brought suit under Bivens, asserting, inter alia, that Mesa had violated their son’s Fourth and
 
Fifth Amendment rights.  The United States District Court for the Western District of Texas granted Mesa’s motion to dismiss.  A panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the parents’
 
Fourth Amendment claim but held that their
 
Fifth Amendment claim could proceed.

															The Court of Appeals reheard the case en banc and affirmed the District Court’s dismissal of the parents’ claims.  The full court agreed with the panel that Hernández lacked
 
Fourth Amendment rights.  Hernandez v. United States, 785 F.3d 117, 119 (2015) (per curiam) (citing United States v. Verdugo-Urquidez,

494 U.S. 259 (1990)).[1]  It declined, however, to resolve whether Mesa’s conduct violated the
 
Fifth Amendment, concluding that, in any event, Mesa was entitled to qualified immunity.  785 F. 3d, at 120–121.

															This Court vacated the Court of Appeals’ judgment and remanded with several instructions.  First, the Court directed the Court of Appeals to address the “antecedent” question whether the suit could be premised on Bivens in light of the Court’s recent decision in Ziglar v. Abbasi, 582 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 1).  Hernández, 582 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 4–5).  The Court also identified error in the Court of Appeals’ qualified-immunity analysis.  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 5–6).  That analysis had centered on Hernández’s status as an alien with no significant connections to the United States, but it is “undisputed . . . that Hernández’s nationality and the extent of his ties to the United States were unknown to Mesa at the time of the shooting.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  The Court declined to address whether Hernández had stated a valid
 
Fourth Amendment claim.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  But see id., at ___–___ (Breyer, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 1–7).

															On remand, the Court of Appeals, again sitting en banc, affirmed the District Court’s dismissal of the suit.  The action presented a “new context” for Bivens, the court concluded, and special factors counseled its hesitation.  885 F.3d 811, 816–823 (CA5 2018).  Dissenting, Judge Prado (joined by Judge Graves) urged that the majority had been “led astray from the familiar circumstances of this case by empty labels of national security, foreign affairs, and extraterritoriality.”  Id., at 825.

															II

															The plaintiff in Bivens alleged that, during an unjustified search of his home, rogue federal law enforcement officers unlawfully seized him, employing “unreasonable force . . . in making the arrest.”  403 U. S., at 389.  This Court afforded him a federal damages remedy against the federal agents who had disregarded the
 
Fourth Amendment’s prohibitions against unreasonable searches and seizures.  Id., at 390–397.  The Court did so directly under the Constitution, for Congress had provided no statutory claim for relief to redress the wrongful conduct.  See ibid. “Historically,” the Court observed, “damages have been regarded as the ordinary remedy for an invasion of personal interests in liberty.”  Id., at 395–396. Given the circumstances presented in Bivens, the Court found “no special factors counselling hesitation [despite] the absence of affirmative action by Congress.”  Id., at 396.  Justice Harlan concurred in the judgment, emphasizing that damages were “the only possible remedy for someone in [the plaintiff ’s] alleged position.”  Id., at 409–410 (injunctions could not “obviate the harm” done, the United States was “immune to suit,” and the exclusionary rule was “irrelevant” for those “innocen[t] of the crime charged”).

															The Court has extended Bivens twice.  See Davis v. Passman,

442 U.S. 228 (1979) (sex-discrimination claim against a congressman under the
 
Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause); Carlson v. Green,

446 U.S. 14 (1980) (inadequate medical treatment claim against federal prison officials under the
 
Eighth Amendment).  Though the Court has more recently declined to extend Bivens to new contexts, see Abbasi, 582 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 11–12), Bivens remains the law of the land in settings in which the decision has been held to apply, see Abbasi, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11).

															In Abbasi, former immigration detainees alleged mistreatment and discrimination following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 3–5).  Invoking Bivens, the plaintiffs sued the former Attorney General, Federal Bureau of Investigation Director, and Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner, as well as detention-facility wardens, under the Fourth and
 
Fifth Amendments.  582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  Though recognizing that one of the plaintiffs’ Bivens claims might be viable, 582 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 23–26),[2] the Court held that the other claims could not proceed under Bivens.  A lawsuit challenging “a high-level executive policy” framed in response to “a major terrorist attack,” the Court observed, bore “little resemblance to” previous Bivens settings.  582 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 16–17).  As considerations counseling hesitation to extend Bivens to the setting in Abbasi, the Court stressed the impropriety of using Bivens to challenge governmental policies, the risk of judicial disruption of national security decision-making, and the availability of alternative remedies.  582 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 17–23).

															Concerning future invocations of Bivens, Abbasi provided several guides.  On whether a case presents a new Bivens context, the Court stated: “If the case is different in a meaningful way from previous Bivens cases decided by this Court, then the context is new.”  582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 16).  And on whether to extend Bivens to a new context, Abbasi identified as the critical inquiry: Is “the Judiciary . . . well suited, absent congressional action or instruction, to consider and weigh the costs and benefits of allowing a damages action to proceed”?  582 U. S., at ___ (slip op.,  at 12).

															While reining in this Court’s Bivens jurisprudence, the Court cautioned in Abbasi that its “opinion is not intended to cast doubt on the continued force, or even the necessity, of Bivens in the search-and-seizure context in which it arose.”  582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11).  “The settled law of Bivens in this common and recurrent sphere of law enforcement, and the undoubted reliance upon it as a fixed principle in the law, are powerful reasons to retain it in that sphere.”  Ibid.  The Court also reiterated that suits against “the individual official for his or her own acts” deter behavior incompatible with constitutional norms, a consideration key to the Bivens decision.  582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17) (emphasis added).  “[I]ndividual instances of . . . law enforcement overreach,” the Court recognized, are by “their very nature . . . difficult to address except by way of damages actions after the fact.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 21) (emphasis added).

															III

															Plaintiffs’ Bivens action arises in a setting kin to Bivens itself: Mesa, plaintiffs allege, acted in disregard of instructions governing his conduct and of Hernández’s constitutional rights.  Abbasi acknowledged the “fixed principle” that plaintiffs may bring Bivens suits against federal law enforcement officers for “seizure[s]” that violate the
 
Fourth Amendment.  582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11); supra, at 6.[3]  Using lethal force against a person who “poses no immediate threat to the officer and no threat to others” surely qualifies as an unreasonable seizure.  Tennessee v. Garner,

471 U.S. 1, 11 (1985).  The complaint states that Mesa engaged in that very conduct; it alleged, specifically, that Hernández was unarmed and posed no threat to Mesa or others.  For these reasons, as Mesa acknowledged at oral argument, Hernández’s parents could have maintained a Bivens action had the bullet hit Hernández while he was running up or down the United States side of the embankment.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 50.

															The only salient difference here: the fortuity that the bullet happened to strike Hernández on the Mexican side of the embankment.  But Hernández’s location at the precise moment the bullet landed should not matter one whit.  After all, “[t]he purpose of Bivens is to deter the officer.”  Abbasi, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17) (internal quotation marks omitted); supra, at 6.  And primary conduct constrained by the
 
Fourth Amendment is an officer’s unjustified resort to excessive force.  See Garner, 471 U. S., at 20–22.  Mesa’s allegedly unwarranted deployment of deadly force occurred on United States soil.  It scarcely makes sense for a remedy trained on deterring rogue officer conduct to turn upon a happenstance subsequent to the conduct—a bullet landing in one half of a culvert, not the other.

															Nor would it make sense to deem some culvert locations “new settings” for Bivens purposes, but others (those inside the United States), familiar territory.  As recounted in Justice Breyer’s dissent earlier in this litigation, the culvert “does not itself contain any physical features of a border”; it consists of wide swaths of “concrete-lined empty space” with fencing on each side.  Hernández, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 2).  See also id., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (noting “the near irrelevance of [the] midculvert line . . . for most border-related purposes”).  It is not asserted that Mesa “knew on which side of the boundary line [his] bullet would land.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 2).

															Finally, although the bullet happened to land on the Mexican side of the culvert, the United States, as in Bivens, unquestionably has jurisdiction to prescribe law governing a Border Patrol agent’s conduct.  That prescriptive jurisdiction reaches “conduct that . . . takes place within [United States] territory.”  Restatement (Third) of Foreign Relations Law of the United States §402 (1986).  The place of a rogue officer’s conduct “has peculiar significance” to choice of the applicable law where, as here, “the primary purpose of the tort rule involved is to deter or punish misconduct.”  Restatement (Second) of Conflict of Laws §145, Comment e, p. 420 (1969).[4]

															IV

															Even accepting, arguendo, that the setting in this case could be characterized as “new,” there is still no good reason why Hernández’s parents should face a closed courtroom door.  As in Bivens, plaintiffs lack recourse to alternative remedies.  And not one of the “special factors” the Court identifies weigh any differently based on where a bullet happens to land.

															A

															It was “of central importance” to the Court’s disposition in Abbasi that the case was “[un]like Bivens . . . in which ‘it [was] damages or nothing.’ ”  582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 21) (quoting Bivens, 403 U. S., at 410 (Harlan, J., concurring in judgment)).  Here, as Judge Prado, dissenting below, observed, “[i]t is uncontested that plaintiffs find no alternative relief in Mexican law, state law, the Federal Tort Claims Act (‘FTCA’), the Alien Tort Statute (‘ATS’), or federal criminal law.”  885 F. 3d, at 827.  While the absence of alternative remedies, standing alone, does not warrant a Bivens action, cf. ante, at 19, it remains a significant consideration under Abbasi’s guidelines.

															B

															The special factors featured by the Court relate, in the main, to foreign policy and national security.  But, as suggested earlier, see supra, at 7, no policies or policymakers are challenged in this case.  Plaintiffs target the rogue actions of a rank-and-file law enforcement officer acting in  violation of rules controlling his office.  See 8 CFR §287.8(a)(2)(ii) (2019) (limiting use of deadly force).  The situation here presented resembles cases Abbasi distinguished—cases involving “individual instances of . . . law enforcement overreach.”  582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 21).

															The Court nevertheless asserts that the instant suit has a “potential effect on foreign relations” because it invites courts “to arbitrate between” the United States and Mexico.  Ante, at 9, 11.  Plaintiffs, however, have brought a civil damages action, no different from one a federal court would entertain had the fatal shot hit Hernández before he reached the Mexican side of the border.  True, cross-border shootings spark bilateral discussion, but so too does a range of smuggling and other border-related issues that courts routinely address “concurrently with whatever diplomacy may also be addressing them.”  Rodriguez v. Swartz, 899 F.3d 719, 747 (CA9 2018).  The Government has identified no deleterious effect on diplomatic negotiations in any case after the Ninth Circuit held that the mother of a boy killed in a cross-border shooting could institute a Bivens action.  See 899 F. 3d, at 734.

															Moreover, the Court, in this case, cannot escape a “potential effect on foreign relations,” ante, at 9, by declining to recognize a Bivens action.  As the Mexican Government alerted the Court: “[R]efus[al] to consider [Hernández’s] parents’ claim on the merits . . . is what has the potential to negatively affect international relations.”  Brief for Government of the United Mexican States as Amicus Curiae 12.

															Notably, recognizing a Bivens suit here honors our Nation’s international commitments.  Article 9(5) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), Dec. 19, 1966, S. Treaty Doc. No. 95–20, 999 U. N. T. S. 176, provides that “[a]nyone who has been the victim of unlawful arrest or detention shall have an enforceable right to compensation.”  The United States ratified the ICCPR with the “understandin[g]” that Article 9(5) “require[s] the provision of effective and enforceable mechanisms by which a victim of an unlawful arrest or detention or a miscarriage of justice may seek and, where justified, obtain compensation from either the responsible individual or the appropriate governmental entity.”  U. S. Reservations, Declarations, and Understandings, ICCPR, 138 Cong. Rec. 8071 (1992).  See also 1676 U. N. T. S. 544 (entered into force Sept. 8, 1992).  One fitting mechanism to obtain compensation is a Bivens action.  See Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, ICCPR, S. Exec. Rep. No. 102–23, p. 15 (1992).

															The Court also asserts, as cause for hesitation, “the risk of undermining border security.”  Ante, at 14.  But the Court speaks with generality of the national-security involvement of Border Patrol officers.  It does not home in on how a Bivens suit for an unjustified killing would in fact undermine security at the border.  Abbasi cautioned against invocations of national security of this very order: “[N]ational-security concerns must not become a talisman used to ward off inconvenient claims—a ‘label’ used to ‘cover a multitude of sins.’ ”  582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 20) (quoting Mitchell v. Forsyth,

472 U.S. 511, 523 (1985)).  Instructions regulating Border Patrol agents tell them to guard against deploying unjustified deadly force.  See 8 CFR §287.8(a)(2)(ii).  Given that instruction, I do not grasp how allowing a Bivens action here would intrude upon the political branches’  national-security prerogatives.

															Congress, although well aware of the Court’s opinion in Bivens, see, e.g., S. Exec. Rep. No. 102–23, at 15, has not endeavored to dislodge the decision.  The Court cites several statutes in support of the argument that affording a Bivens action to Hernández’s parents would be inconsistent with measures Congress has taken.  None of the cited statutes should stand in plaintiffs’ way.

															Section 1983 actions, the Court points out, are available only to “person[s] within the jurisdiction” of the United States.

42 U. S. C. §1983.[5]  That statute has, as its provenance, Reconstruction-era policies aiming to secure to former slaves federal rights and to ward off state and local incursion on those rights.  See Mitchum v. Foster,

407 U.S. 225, 238–239, and n. 30 (1972).  “It is inconceivable that . . . Congress [then] thought about (and deliberately excluded liability for) cross-border incidents involving federal officials.”  Rodriguez, 899 F. 3d, at 742.

															The FTCA is also inapposite.  Its exclusion of “claim[s] arising in a foreign country,”

28 U. S. C. §2680(k), reflects “Congress’s ‘unwilling[ness] to subject the United States to liabilities depending upon the laws of a foreign power.’ ”  Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain,

542 U.S. 692, 707 (2004) (quoting United States v. Spelar,

338 U.S. 217, 221 (1949)).  Here, however, the suit arises under U. S. law.  Even as the Westfall Act amended the FTCA to make it the “exclusive” remedy for scope-of-employment claims against Government officers, §2679(b)(1), Congress carved out an exception for Bivens suits, §2679(b)(2)(A) (excepting civil claims “brought for a violation of the Constitution of the United States”).  The Torture Victim Protection Act of 1991 applies exclusively to wrongdoers acting under color of foreign law.

28 U. S. C. §1350 Note.  The conduct of federal and state officers is outside that Act’s purview.[6]

															Nor are concerns sometimes attending application of our law abroad implicated in this case.  True, the Court has applied a “presumption against extraterritorial application” to statutes that do not make plain their governance beyond U. S. borders.  Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co.,

569 U.S. 108, 115 (2013).  But plaintiffs in this case allege a tort stemming from stateside conduct.  Cf. id., at 124–125 (if conduct at issue “touch[es] and concern[s] the territory of the United States . . . with sufficient force,” the presumption against extraterritoriality is displaced).  This case scarcely resembles those in which applying “U. S. law . . . to conduct in foreign countries” might spark “international discord.”  RJR Nabisco, Inc. v. European Community, 579 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2016) (slip op., at 7–8).  Quite the opposite.  Withholding a Bivens suit here threatens to exacerbate bilateral relations, see supra, at 10, and in no way fosters our international commitments, see supra, at 10–11.

															V

															Regrettably, the death of Hernández is not an isolated incident.  Cf. Rodriguez, 899 F. 3d, at 727 (complaint alleged that border agent fired 14 to 30 bullets across the border, killing a 16-year-old boy); Brief for Immigrant and Civil Rights Organizations as Amici Curiae 26–28 (describing various incidents of allegedly unconstitutional conduct by border and immigration officers); Brief for Border Network for Human Rights et al. as Amici Curiae 8–15 (listing individuals killed by border agents).  One report reviewed over 800 complaints of alleged physical, verbal, or sexual abuse lodged against Border Patrol agents between 2009 and 2012; in 97% of the complaints resulting in formal decisions, no action was taken.  D. Martínez, G. Cantor, & W. Ewing, No Action Taken: Lack of CBP Accountability in Responding to Complaints of Abuse, American Immigration Council 1–8 (2014), americanimmigrationcouncil.org/sites/ default/files/research/No%20Action%20Taken_Final.pdf.  According to amici former Customs and Border Protection officials, “the United States has not extradited a Border Patrol agent to stand trial in Mexico, and to [amici’s] knowledge has itself prosecuted only one agent in a cross-border shooting.”  Brief for Former Officials of U. S. Customs and Border Protection Agency as Amici Curiae 4.  These amici warn that, “[w]ithout the possibility of civil liability, the unlikely prospect of discipline or criminal prosecution will not provide a meaningful deterrent to abuse at the border.”  Ibid.  In short, it is all too apparent that to redress injuries like the one suffered here, it is Bivens or nothing.

															*  *  *

															I resist the conclusion that “nothing” is the answer required in this case.  I would reverse the Fifth Circuit’s judgment and hold that plaintiffs can sue Mesa in federal court for violating their son’s Fourth and
 
Fifth Amendment rights.
Notes
1
 United States v. Verdugo-Urquidez,

494 U.S. 259 (1990), is not dispositive of the
 
Fourth Amendment claim in this case.  There, the Court held that the
 
Fourth Amendment did not apply to federal agents’ warrantless search of a Mexican drug trafficker’s home in Mexico.  Id., at 262, 274–275.  Verdugo-Urquidez’s practical concerns, among them, that a warrant issued by a U. S. judge “would be a dead letter outside the United States,” id., at 274, do not bear on the complaint filed by Hernández’s parents.  In contrast to Verdugo-Urquidez, it would not be “impracticable” or “anomalous” to subject Mesa’s U. S.-based conduct to
 
Fourth Amendment scrutiny.  Boumediene v. Bush,

553 U.S. 723, 759–760 (2008) (quoting Verdugo-Urquidez, 494 U. S., at 278 (Kennedy, J., concurring)). 

2
 The detainees had alleged, inter alia, that one of the wardens violated the
 
Fifth Amendment by allowing prison guards to abuse them.  Ziglar v. Abbasi, 582 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 23).  The Court remanded this claim for the Court of Appeals to conduct a special-factors analysis in the first instance.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 26). 

3
 Unlike Abbasi, this case does not meaningfully differ from Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents,

403 U.S. 388 (1971), with respect to the “rank of the officers involved; the constitutional right at issue; the generality or specificity of the official action; the extent of judicial guidance as to how an officer should respond to the problem or emergency to be confronted; [or] the statutory or other legal mandate under which the officer was operating.”  Abbasi, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 16).  As differences material to a new-context determination, Abbasi also lists: “the risk of disruptive intrusion by the Judiciary into the functioning of other branches . . . or the presence of potential special factors that previous Bivens cases did not consider.”  Ibid.  These considerations overlap with the special-factors inquiry to which I turn in Part IV. 

4
 The Court of Appeals typed the setting of this case “new” because it was unsure whether the asserted constitutional rights extended “to foreign citizens on foreign soil.”  885 F.3d 811, 817 (CA5 2018).  But that question is appropriately addressed in deciding this case on the merits.  The Court of Appeals’ uncertainty does not mean a claim arises in a “new” context for Bivens purposes, for “[t]here will always be at least some uncertainty as to whether[, once factual allegations are tested at trial,] a plaintiff is ultimately going to prevail on his constitutional claims.”  Brief for Petitioners 24. 

5
 Title

42 U. S. C. §1983 reads: “Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or Territory or the District of Columbia, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States or other person within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall be liable to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for redress.” 

6
 The Torture Victim Protection Act sought to codify a Second Circuit opinion recognizing “a right of action against foreign torturers” under the Alien Tort Claims Act.  H. R. Rep. No. 102–367, pp. 3–4 (1991) (discussing Filartiga v. Pena-Irala, 630 F.2d 876 (CA2 1980)).  “Domestic officials were not at issue.”  Rodriguez v. Swartz, 899 F.3d 719, 743 (CA9 2018). 


