::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-033
::decision_cite:: 17-1712
::decision_name::  Thole v. U. S. Bank N. A.
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–1712

															_________________

															JAMES J. THOLE, et al., PETITIONERS v. U. S. BANK N. A., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit

															[June 1, 2020]

															

															Justice Kavanaugh delivered the opinion of the Court.

															To establish standing under Article III of the Constitution, a plaintiff must demonstrate (1) that he or she suffered an injury in fact that is concrete, particularized, and actual or imminent, (2) that the injury was caused by the defendant, and (3) that the injury would likely be redressed by the requested judicial relief.  See Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife,

504 U.S. 555, 560–561 (1992).

															Plaintiffs James Thole and Sherry Smith are two retired participants in U. S. Bank’s retirement plan.  Of decisive importance to this case, the plaintiffs’ retirement plan is a defined-benefit plan, not a defined-contribution plan.  In a defined-benefit plan, retirees receive a fixed payment each month, and the payments do not fluctuate with the value of the plan or because of the plan fiduciaries’ good or bad investment decisions.  By contrast, in a defined-contribution plan, such as a 401(k) plan, the retirees’ benefits are typically tied to the value of their accounts, and the benefits can turn on the plan fiduciaries’ particular investment decisions.  See Beck v. PACE Int’l Union,

551 U.S. 96, 98 (2007); Hughes Aircraft Co. v. Jacobson,

525 U.S. 432, 439–440 (1999).

															As retirees and vested participants in U. S. Bank’s defined-benefit plan, Thole receives $2,198.38 per month, and Smith receives $42.26 per month, regardless of the plan’s value at any one moment and regardless of the investment decisions of the plan’s fiduciaries.  Thole and Smith have been paid all of their monthly pension benefits so far, and they are legally and contractually entitled to receive those same monthly payments for the rest of their lives.  

															Even though the plaintiffs have not sustained any monetary injury, they filed a putative class-action suit against U. S. Bank and others (collectively, U. S. Bank) for alleged mismanagement of the defined-benefit plan.  The alleged mismanagement occurred more than a decade ago, from 2007 to 2010.  The plaintiffs sued under ERISA, the aptly named Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,

88Stat.
829, as amended,

29 U. S. C. §1001 et seq.  The plaintiffs claimed that the defendants violated ERISA’s duties of loyalty and prudence by poorly investing the assets of the plan.  The plaintiffs requested that U. S. Bank repay the plan approximately $750 million in losses that the plan allegedly suffered.  The plaintiffs also asked for injunctive relief, including replacement of the plan’s fiduciaries.  See ERISA §§502(a)(2), (3), 29 U. S. C. §§1132(a)(2), (3). 

															No small thing, the plaintiffs also sought attorney’s fees.  In the District Court, the plaintiffs’ attorneys requested at least $31 million in attorney’s fees.   

															The U. S. District Court for the District of Minnesota dismissed the case, and the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed on the ground that the plaintiffs lack statutory standing.  873 F.3d 617 (2017).  We granted certiorari.  588 U. S. ___ (2019).

															We affirm the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit on the ground that the plaintiffs lack Article III standing.  Thole and Smith have received all of their monthly benefit payments so far, and the outcome of this suit would not affect their future benefit payments.  If Thole and Smith were to lose this lawsuit, they would still receive the exact same monthly benefits that they are already slated to receive, not a penny less.  If Thole and Smith were to win this lawsuit, they would still receive the exact same monthly benefits that they are already slated to receive, not a penny more.  The plaintiffs therefore have no concrete stake in this lawsuit.  To be sure, their attorneys have a stake in the lawsuit, but an “interest in attorney’s fees is, of course, insufficient to create an Article III case or controversy where none exists on the merits of the underlying claim.”  Lewis v. Continental Bank Corp.,

494 U.S. 472, 480 (1990); see Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment,

523 U.S. 83, 107 (1998) (same).  Because the plaintiffs themselves have no concrete stake in the lawsuit, they lack Article III standing.  

															*  *  * 

															If Thole and Smith had not received their vested pension benefits, they would of course have Article III standing to sue and a cause of action under ERISA §502(a)(1)(B) to recover the benefits due to them.  See

29 U. S. C. §1132(a)(1)(B).  But Thole and Smith have received all of their monthly pension benefits so far, and they will receive those same monthly payments for the rest of their lives.

															To nonetheless try to demonstrate their standing to challenge alleged plan mismanagement, the plaintiffs have advanced four alternative arguments.  

															First, analogizing to trust law, Thole and Smith contend that an ERISA defined-benefit plan participant possesses an equitable or property interest in the plan, meaning in essence that injuries to the plan are by definition injuries to the plan participants.  Thole and Smith contend, in other words, that a plan fiduciary’s breach of a trust-law duty of prudence or duty of loyalty itself harms ERISA defined-benefit plan participants, even if the participants themselves have not suffered (and will not suffer) any monetary losses.  

															 The basic flaw in the plaintiffs’ trust-based theory of standing is that the participants in a defined-benefit plan are not similarly situated to the beneficiaries of a private trust or to the participants in a defined-contribution plan.  See Varity Corp. v. Howe,

516 U.S. 489, 497 (1996) (trust law informs but does not control interpretation of ERISA).  In the private trust context, the value of the trust property and the ultimate amount of money received by the beneficiaries will typically depend on how well the trust is managed, so every penny of gain or loss is at the beneficiaries’ risk.  By contrast, a defined-benefit plan is more in the nature of a contract.  The plan participants’ benefits are fixed and will not change, regardless of how well or poorly the plan is managed.  The benefits paid to the participants in a defined-benefit plan are not tied to the value of the plan.  Moreover, the employer, not plan participants, receives any surplus left over after all of the benefits are paid; the employer, not plan participants, is on the hook for plan shortfalls.  See Beck, 551 U. S., at 98–99.  As this Court has stated before, plan participants possess no equitable or property interest in the plan.  See Hughes Aircraft Co., 525 U. S., at 439–441; see also LaRue v. DeWolff, Boberg & Associates, Inc.,

552 U.S. 248, 254–256 (2008).  The trust-law analogy therefore does not fit this case and does not support Article III standing for plaintiffs who allege mismanagement of a defined-benefit plan.

															Second, Thole and Smith assert standing as representatives of the plan itself.  But in order to claim “the interests of others, the litigants themselves still must have suffered an injury in fact, thus giving” them “a sufficiently concrete interest in the outcome of the issue in dispute.”  Hollingsworth v. Perry,

570 U.S. 693, 708 (2013) (internal quotation marks omitted); cf. Gollust v. Mendell,

501 U.S. 115, 125–126 (1991) (suggesting that shareholder must “maintain some continuing financial stake in the litigation” in order to have Article III standing to bring an insider trading suit on behalf of the corporation); Craig v. Boren,

429 U.S. 190, 194–195 (1976) (vendor who “independently” suffered an Article III injury in fact could then assert the rights of her customers).  The plaintiffs themselves do not have a concrete stake in this suit.

															The plaintiffs point to the Court’s decisions upholding the Article III standing of assignees—that is, where a party’s right to sue has been legally or contractually assigned to another party.  But here, the plan’s claims have not been legally or contractually assigned to Thole or Smith.  Cf. Sprint Communications Co. v. APCC Services, Inc.,

554 U.S. 269, 290 (2008); Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v. United States ex rel. Stevens,

529 U.S. 765, 771–774 (2000) (qui tam statute makes a relator a partial assignee and “gives the relator himself an interest in the lawsuit”) (emphasis deleted).  The plaintiffs’ invocation of cases involving guardians, receivers, and executors falls short for basically the same reason.  The plaintiffs have not been legally or contractually appointed to represent the plan.

															Third, in arguing for standing, Thole and Smith stress that ERISA affords the Secretary of Labor, fiduciaries, beneficiaries, and participants—including participants in a defined-benefit plan—a general cause of action to sue for restoration of plan losses and other equitable relief.  See ERISA §§502(a)(2), (3), 29 U. S. C. §§1132(a)(2), (3).  But the cause of action does not affect the Article III standing analysis.  This Court has rejected the argument that “a plaintiff automatically satisfies the injury-in-fact requirement whenever a statute grants a person a statutory right and purports to authorize that person to sue to vindicate that right.”  Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins, 578 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (slip op., at 9); see Raines v. Byrd,

521 U.S. 811, 820, n. 3 (1997).  The Court has emphasized that “Article III standing requires a concrete injury even in the context of a statutory violation.”  Spokeo, 578 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9).  Here, the plaintiffs have failed to plausibly and clearly allege a concrete injury.[1]

															Fourth, Thole and Smith contend that if defined-benefit plan participants may not sue to target perceived fiduciary misconduct, no one will meaningfully regulate plan fiduciaries.  For that reason, the plaintiffs suggest that defined-benefit plan participants must have standing to sue.  But this Court has long rejected that kind of argument for Article III standing.  See Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc.,

454 U.S. 464, 489 (1982) (the “ ‘assumption that if respondents have no standing to sue, no one would have standing, is not a reason to find standing’ ”) (quoting Schlesinger v. Reservists Comm. to Stop the War,

418 U.S. 208, 227 (1974)).

															In any event, the argument rests on a faulty premise in this case because defined-benefit plans are regulated and monitored in multiple ways.  To begin with, employers and their shareholders often possess strong incentives to root out fiduciary misconduct because the employers are entitled to the plan surplus and are often on the hook for plan shortfalls.  Therefore, about the last thing a rational employer wants or needs is a mismanaged retirement plan.  Cf. ERISA §4062(a),

29 U. S. C. §1362(a).  Moreover, ERISA expressly authorizes the Department of Labor to enforce ERISA’s fiduciary obligations.  See ERISA §502(a)(2),

29 U. S. C. §1132(a)(2).  And the Department of Labor has a substantial motive to aggressively pursue fiduciary misconduct, particularly to avoid the financial burden of failed defined-benefit plans being backloaded onto the Federal Government.  When a defined-benefit plan fails and is unable to pay benefits to retirees, the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation is required by law to pay the vested pension benefits of the retirees, often in full.  The Department of Labor is well positioned to understand the relationship between plan failure and the PBGC because, by law, the PBGC operates within the Department of Labor, and the Secretary of Labor chairs the Board of the PBGC.  See ERISA §§4002(a), (d), 29 U. S. C. §§1302(a), (d).  On top of all that, fiduciaries (including trustees who are fiduciaries) can sue other fiduciaries—and they would have good reason to sue if, as Thole and Smith posit, one fiduciary were using the plan’s assets as a “personal piggybank.”  Brief for Petitioners 2.  In addition, depending on the nature of the fiduciary misconduct, state and federal criminal laws may apply.  See, e.g., 18 U. S. C. §§664, 1954; ERISA §514(b)(4),

29 U. S. C. §1144(b)(4).  In short, under ERISA, fiduciaries who manage defined-benefit plans face a regulatory phalanx.

															In sum, none of the plaintiffs’ four theories supports their Article III standing in this case.

															 One last wrinkle remains.  According to the plaintiffs’ amici, plan participants in a defined-benefit plan have standing to sue if the mismanagement of the plan was so egregious that it substantially increased the risk that the plan and the employer would fail and be unable to pay the participants’ future pension benefits.  Cf. Clapper v. Amnesty Int’l USA,

568 U.S. 398, 414, n. 5 (2013); Lee v. Verizon Communications, Inc., 837 F.3d 523, 545–546 (CA5 2016); David v. Alphin, 704 F.3d 327, 336–338 (CA4 2013).  But the plaintiffs do not assert that theory of standing in this Court.  In any event, the plaintiffs’ complaint did not plausibly and clearly claim that the alleged mismanagement of the plan substantially increased the risk that the plan and the employer would fail and be unable to pay the plaintiffs’ future pension benefits.  It is true that the plaintiffs’ complaint alleged that the plan was underfunded for a period of time.  But a bare allegation of plan underfunding does not itself demonstrate a substantially increased risk that the plan and the employer would both fail.  Cf. LaRue, 552 U. S., at 255 (“Misconduct by the administrators of a defined benefit plan will not affect an individual’s entitlement to a defined benefit unless it creates or enhances the risk of default by the entire plan”).[2]  

															*  *  *

															Courts sometimes make standing law more complicated than it needs to be.  There is no ERISA exception to Article III.  And under ordinary Article III standing analysis, the plaintiffs lack Article III standing for a simple, commonsense reason: They have received all of their vested pension benefits so far, and they are legally entitled to receive the same monthly payments for the rest of their lives.  Winning or losing this suit would not change the plaintiffs’ monthly pension benefits.  The plaintiffs have no concrete stake in this dispute and therefore lack Article III standing.  We affirm the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.

															

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
 To be clear, our decision today does not concern suits to obtain plan information.  See, e.g., ERISA §502(a)(1)(A),

29 U. S. C. §1132(a)(1)(A). 

2
  Even if a defined-benefit plan is mismanaged into plan termination, the federal PBGC by law acts as a backstop and covers the vested pension benefits up to a certain amount and often in full.  For example, if the plan and the employer in this case were to fail, the PBGC would be required to pay these two plaintiffs all of their vested pension benefits in full.  See ERISA §§4022(a), (b), 29 U. S. C. §§1322(a), (b); Tr. of Oral Arg. 18–19; see also Congressional Research Service, Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC): A Primer 1 (2019); PBGC, General FAQs About PBGC, https://www.pbgc.gov/about/faq/general-faqs-about-pbgc.  Any increased-risk-of-harm theory of standing therefore might not be available for plan participants whose benefits are guaranteed in full by the PBGC.  But we need not decide that question in this case. 


