::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-029
::decision_cite:: 17-1077
::decision_name::  Lorenzo v. Securities and Exchange Commission
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–1077

															_________________

															FRANCIS V. LORENZO, PETITIONER v. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit

															[March 27, 2019]

															Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.

															Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 10b–5 makes it unlawful:

															“(a) To employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud,

															“(b) To make any untrue statement of a material fact . . . , or

															“(c) To engage in any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit . . .

															in connection with the purchase or sale of any security.”  17 CFR §240.10b–5 (2018).

															In Janus Capital Group, Inc. v. First Derivative Traders, 
564 U.S. 135 (2011), we examined the second of these provisions, Rule 10b–5(b), which forbids the “mak[ing]” of “any untrue statement of a material fact.”  We held that the “maker of a statement is the person or entity with ultimate authority over the statement, including its content and whether and how to communicate it.”  Id., at 142 (emphasis added).  We said that “[w]ithout control, a person or entity can merely suggest what to say, not ‘make’ a statement in its own right.”  Ibid.  And we illustrated our holding with an analogy: “[W]hen a speechwriter drafts a speech, the content is entirely within the control of the person who delivers it.  And it is the speaker who takes credit—or blame—for what is ultimately said.”  Id., at 143.  On the facts of Janus, this meant that an investment adviser who had merely “participat[ed] in the drafting of a false statement” “made” by another could not be held liable in a private action under subsection (b) of Rule 10b–5.  Id., at 145.

															In this case, we consider whether those who do not “make” statements (as Janus defined “make”), but who disseminate false or misleading statements to potential investors with the intent to defraud, can be found to have violated the other parts of Rule 10b–5, subsections (a) and (c), as well as related provisions of the securities laws, §10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,

48Stat.
891, as amended,

15 U. S. C. §78j(b), and §17(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933,

48Stat.
84–85, as amended,

15 U. S. C. §77q(a)(1).  We believe that they can.

															I

															A

															For our purposes, the relevant facts are not in dispute.  Francis Lorenzo, the petitioner, was the director of investment banking at Charles Vista, LLC, a registered broker-dealer in Staten Island, New York.  Lorenzo’s only investment banking client at the time was Waste2Energy Holdings, Inc., a company developing technology to convert “solid waste” into “clean renewable energy.”

															In a June 2009 public filing, Waste2Energy stated that its total assets were worth about $14 million.  This figure included intangible assets, namely, intellectual property, valued at more than $10 million.  Lorenzo was skeptical of this valuation, later testifying that the intangibles were a “dead asset” because the technology “didn’t really work.”

															During the summer and early fall of 2009, Waste2Energy hired Lorenzo’s firm, Charles Vista, to sell to investors $15 million worth of debentures, a form of “debt secured only by the debtor’s earning power, not by a lien on any specific asset,” Black’s Law Dictionary 486 (10th ed. 2014).

															In early October 2009, Waste2Energy publicly disclosed, and Lorenzo was told, that its intellectual property was worthless, that it had “ ‘ “[w]rit[ten] off . . . all [of its] intangible assets,” ’ ” and that its total assets (as of March 31, 2009) amounted to $370,552.

															Shortly thereafter, on October 14, 2009, Lorenzo sent two e-mails to prospective investors describing the debenture offering.  According to later testimony by Lorenzo, he sent the e-mails at the direction of his boss, who supplied the content and “approved” the messages.  The e-mails described the investment in Waste2Energy as having “3 layers of protection,” including $10 million in “confirmed assets.”  The e-mails nowhere revealed the fact that Waste2Energy had publicly stated that its assets were in fact worth less than $400,000.  Lorenzo signed the e-mails with his own name, he identified himself as “Vice President—Investment Banking,” and he invited the recipients to “call with any questions.”

															B

															In 2013, the Securities and Exchange Commission instituted proceedings against Lorenzo (along with his boss and Charles Vista).  The Commission charged that Lorenzo had violated Rule 10b–5, §10(b) of the Exchange Act, and §17(a)(1) of the Securities Act.  Ultimately, the Commission found that Lorenzo had run afoul of these provisions by sending false and misleading statements to investors with intent to defraud.  As a sanction, it fined Lorenzo $15,000, ordered him to cease and desist from violating the securities laws, and barred him from working in the securities industry for life.

															Lorenzo appealed, arguing primarily that in sending the e-mails he lacked the intent required to establish a violation of Rule 10b–5, §10(b), and §17(a)(1), which we have characterized as “ ‘a mental state embracing intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud.’ ”  Aaron v. SEC,

446 U.S. 680, 686, and n. 5 (1980).  With one judge dissenting, the Court of Appeals panel rejected Lorenzo’s lack-of-intent argument.  872 F.3d 578, 583 (CADC 2017).  Lorenzo does not challenge the panel’s scienter finding.  Reply Brief 17.

															Lorenzo also argued that, in light of Janus, he could not be held liable under subsection (b) of Rule 10b–5.  872 F. 3d, at 586–587.  The panel agreed.  Because his boss “asked Lorenzo to send the emails, supplied the central content, and approved the messages for distribution,” id., at 588, it was the boss that had “ultimate authority” over the content of the statement “and whether and how to communicate it,” Janus, 563 U. S., at 142.  (We took this case on the assumption that Lorenzo was not a “maker” under subsection (b) of Rule 10b–5, and do not revisit the court’s decision on this point.)

															The Court of Appeals nonetheless sustained (with one judge dissenting) the Commission’s finding that, by knowingly disseminating false information to prospective investors, Lorenzo had violated other parts of Rule 10b–5, subsections (a) and (c), as well as §10(b) and §17(a)(1).

															Lorenzo then filed a petition for certiorari in this Court.  We granted review to resolve disagreement about whether someone who is not a “maker” of a misstatement under Janus can nevertheless be found to have violated the other subsections of Rule 10b–5 and related provisions of the securities laws, when the only conduct involved concerns a misstatement.  Compare e.g., 872 F.3d 578, with WPP Luxembourg Gamma Three Sarl v. Spot Runner, Inc., 655 F.3d 1039, 1057–1058 (CA9 2011).

															II

															A

															At the outset, we review the relevant provisions of Rule 10b–5 and of the statutes.  See Appendix, infra.  As we have said, subsection (a) of the Rule makes it unlawful to “employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud.”  Subsection (b) makes it unlawful to “make any untrue statement of a material fact.”  And subsection (c) makes it unlawful to “engage in any act, practice, or course of business” that “operates . . . as a fraud or deceit.”  See 17 CFR §240.10b–5.

															There are also two statutes at issue.  Section 10(b) makes it unlawful to “use or employ . . .  any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance” in contravention of Commission rules and regulations.

15 U. S. C. §78j(b).  By its authority under that section, the Commission promulgated Rule 10b–5.  The second statutory provision is §17(a), which, like Rule 10b–5, is organized into three subsections.

15 U. S. C. §77q(a).  Here, however, we consider only the first subsection, §17(a)(1), for this is the only subsection that the Commission charged Lorenzo with violating. Like Rule 10b–5(a), (a)(1) makes it unlawful to “employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud.”

															B

															After examining the relevant language, precedent, and purpose, we conclude that (assuming other here-irrelevant legal requirements are met) dissemination of false or misleading statements with intent to defraud can fall within the scope of subsections (a) and (c) of Rule 10b–5, as well as the relevant statutory provisions.  In our view, that is so even if the disseminator did not “make” the statements and consequently falls outside subsection (b) of the Rule.

															It would seem obvious that the words in these provisions are, as ordinarily used, sufficiently broad to include within their scope the dissemination of false or misleading information with the intent to defraud.  By sending emails he understood to contain material untruths, Lorenzo “employ[ed]” a “device,” “scheme,” and “artifice to defraud” within the meaning of subsection (a) of the Rule, §10(b), and §17(a)(1).  By the same conduct, he “engage[d] in a[n] act, practice, or course of business” that “operate[d] . . . as a fraud or deceit” under subsection (c) of the Rule.  Recall that Lorenzo does not challenge the appeals court’s scienter finding, so we take for granted that he sent the emails with “intent to deceive, manipulate, or defraud” the recipients.  Aaron, 446 U. S., at 686, n. 5.  Under the circumstances, it is difficult to see how his actions could escape the reach of those provisions.

															Resort to dictionary definitions only strengthens this conclusion.  A “ ‘device,’ ” we have observed, is simply “ ‘[t]hat which is devised, or formed by design’ ”; a “ ‘scheme’ ” is a “ ‘project,’ ” “ ‘plan[,] or program of something to be done’ ”; and an “ ‘artifice’ ” is “ ‘an artful stratagem or trick.’ ”  Id., at 696, n. 13 (quoting Webster’s International Dictionary 713, 2234, 157 (2d ed. 1934) (Webster’s Second)).  By these lights, dissemination of false or misleading material is easily an “artful stratagem” or a “plan,” “devised” to defraud an investor under subsection (a).  See Rule 10b–5(a) (making it unlawful to “employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud”); §17(a)(1) (same).  The words “act” and “practice” in subsection (c) are similarly expansive.  Webster’s Second 25 (defining “act” as “a doing” or a “thing done”); id., at 1937 (defining “practice” as an “action” or “deed”); see Rule 10b–5(c) (making it unlawful to “engage in a[n] act, practice, or course of business” that “operates . . . as a fraud or deceit”).

															These provisions capture a wide range of conduct.  Applying them may present difficult problems of scope in borderline cases.  Purpose, precedent, and circumstance could lead to narrowing their reach in other contexts.  But we see nothing borderline about this case, where the relevant conduct (as found by the Commission) consists of disseminating false or misleading information to prospective investors with the intent to defraud.  And while one can readily imagine other actors tangentially involved in dissemination—say, a mailroom clerk—for whom liability would typically be inappropriate, the petitioner in this case sent false statements directly to investors, invited them to follow up with questions, and did so in his capacity as vice president of an investment banking company.

															C

															Lorenzo argues that, despite the natural meaning of these provisions, they should not reach his conduct.  This is so, he says, because the only way to be liable for false statements is through those provisions that refer specifically to false statements.  Other provisions, he says, concern “scheme liability claims” and are violated only when conduct other than misstatements is involved.  Brief for Petitioner 4–6, 28–30.  Thus, only those who “make” untrue statements under subsection (b) can violate Rule 10b–5 in connection with statements.  (Similarly, §17(a)(2) would be the sole route for finding liability for statements under §17(a).)  Holding to the contrary, he and the dissent insist, would render subsection (b) of Rule 10b–5 “superfluous.”  See post, at 6–7 (opinion of Thomas, J.).

															The premise of this argument is that each of these provisions should be read as governing different, mutually exclusive, spheres of conduct.  But this Court and the Commission have long recognized considerable overlap among the subsections of the Rule and related provisions of the securities laws.  See Herman & MacLean v. Huddleston,

459 U.S. 375, 383 (1983) (“[I]t is hardly a novel proposition that” different portions of the securities laws “prohibit some of the same conduct” (internal quotation marks omitted)).  As we have explained, these laws marked the “first experiment in federal regulation of the securities industry.”  SEC v. Capital Gains Research Bureau, Inc.,

375 U.S. 180, 198 (1963).  It is “understandable, therefore,” that “in declaring certain practices unlawful,” it was thought prudent “to include both a general proscription against fraudulent and deceptive practices and, out of an abundance of caution, a specific proscription against nondisclosure” even though “a specific proscription against nondisclosure” might in other circumstances be deemed “surplusage.”  Id., at 198–199.  “Each succeeding prohibition” was thus “meant to cover additional kinds of illegalities—not to narrow the reach of the prior sections.”  United States v. Naftalin,

441 U.S. 768, 774 (1979).  We have found “ ‘no warrant for narrowing alternative provisions . . . adopted with the purpose of affording added safeguards.’ ”  Ibid. (quoting United States v. Gilliland,

312 U.S. 86, 93 (1941)); see Affiliated Ute Citizens of Utah v. United States,

406 U.S. 128, 152–153 (1972) (While “the second subparagraph of [Rule 10b–5] specifies the making of an untrue statement . . .  [t]he first and third subparagraphs are not so restricted”).  And since its earliest days, the Commission has not viewed these provisions as mutually exclusive.  See, e.g., In re R. D. Bayly & Co., 19 S. E. C. 773 (1945) (finding violations of what would become Rules 10b–5(b) and (c) based on the same misrepresentations and omissions); In re Arthur Hays & Co., 5 S. E. C. 271 (1939) (finding violations of both §§17(a)(2) and (a)(3) based on false representations in stock sales).

															The idea that each subsection of Rule 10b–5 governs a separate type of conduct is also difficult to reconcile with the language of subsections (a) and (c).  It should go without saying that at least some conduct amounts to “employ[ing]” a “device, scheme, or artifice to defraud” under subsection (a) as well as “engag[ing] in a[n] act . . . which operates . . . as a fraud” under subsection (c).  In Affiliated Ute, for instance, we described the “defendants’ activities” as falling “within the very language of one or the other of those subparagraphs, a ‘course of business’ or a ‘device, scheme, or artifice’ that operated as a fraud.”  406 U. S., at 153.  (The dissent, for its part, offers no account of how the superfluity problems that motivate its interpretation can be avoided where subsections (a) and (c) are concerned.)

															Coupled with the Rule’s expansive language, which readily embraces the conduct before us, this considerable overlap suggests we should not hesitate to hold that Lorenzo’s conduct ran afoul of subsections (a) and (c), as well as the related statutory provisions.  Our conviction is strengthened by the fact that we here confront behavior that, though plainly fraudulent, might otherwise fall outside the scope of the Rule.  Lorenzo’s view that subsection (b), the making-false-statements provision, exclusively regulates conduct involving false or misleading statements would mean those who disseminate false statements with the intent to cheat investors might escape liability under the Rule altogether.  But using false representations to induce the purchase of securities would seem a paradigmatic example of securities fraud.  We do not know why Congress or the Commission would have wanted to disarm enforcement in this way.  And we cannot easily reconcile Lorenzo’s approach with the basic purpose behind these laws: “to substitute a philosophy of full disclosure for the philosophy of caveat emptor and thus to achieve a high standard of business ethics in the securities industry.”  Capital Gains, 375 U. S., at 186.  See also, e.g., SEC v. W. J. Howey Co.,

328 U.S. 293, 299 (1946) (the securities laws were designed “to meet the countless and variable schemes devised by those who seek the use of the money of others on the promise of profits”).

															III

															Lorenzo and the dissent make a few other important arguments.  They contend that applying subsections (a) or (c) of Rule 10b–5 to conduct like his would render our decision in Janus (which we described at the outset, supra, at 1–2) “a dead letter,” post, at 9.  But we do not see how that is so.  In Janus, we considered the language in subsection (b), which prohibits the “mak[ing]” of “any untrue statement of a material fact.”  See 564 U. S., at 141–143.  We held that the “maker” of a “statement” is the “person or entity with ultimate authority over the statement.”  Id., at 142.  And we found that subsection (b) did not (under the circumstances) cover an investment adviser who helped draft misstatements issued by a different entity that controlled the statements’ content.  Id., at 146–148.  We said nothing about the Rule’s application to the dissemination of false or misleading information.  And we can assume that Janus would remain relevant (and preclude liability) where an individual neither makes nor disseminates false information—provided, of course, that the individual is not involved in some other form of fraud.

															Next, Lorenzo points to the statute’s “aiding and abetting” provision.

15 U. S. C. §78t(e).  This provision, enforceable only by the Commission (and not by private parties), makes it unlawful to “knowingly or recklessly . . . provid[e] substantial assistance to another person” who violates the Rule.  Ibid.; see Janus, 564 U. S., at 143 (citing Central Bank of Denver, N. A. v. First Interstate Bank of Denver, N. A.,

511 U.S. 164 (1994)).  Lorenzo claims that imposing primary liability upon his conduct would erase or at least weaken what is otherwise a clear distinction between primary and secondary (i.e., aiding and abetting) liability.  He emphasizes that, under today’s holding, a disseminator might be a primary offender with respect to subsection (a) of Rule 10b–5 (by employing a “scheme” to “defraud”) and also secondarily liable as an aider and abettor with respect to subsection (b) (by providing substantial assistance to one who “makes” a false statement).  And he refers to two cases that, in his view, argue in favor of circumscribing primary liability.  See Central Bank, 511 U. S., at 164; Stoneridge Investment Partners, LLC v. Scientific-Atlanta, Inc.,

552 U.S. 148 (2008).

															We do not believe, however, that our decision creates a serious anomaly or otherwise weakens the distinction between primary and secondary liability.  For one thing, it is hardly unusual for the same conduct to be a primary violation with respect to one offense and aiding and abetting with respect to another.  John, for example, might sell Bill an unregistered firearm in order to help Bill rob a bank, under circumstances that make him primarily li- able for the gun sale and secondarily liable for the bank robbery.

															For another, the cases to which Lorenzo refers do not help his cause.  Take Central Bank, where we held that Rule 10b–5’s private right of action does not permit suits against secondary violators.  511 U. S., at 177.  The holding of Central Bank, we have said, suggests the need for a “clean line” between conduct that constitutes a primary violation of Rule 10b–5 and conduct that amounts to a secondary violation.  Janus, 564 U. S., at 143, and n. 6.  Thus, in Janus, we sought an interpretation of “make” that could neatly divide primary violators and actors too far removed from the ultimate decision to communicate a statement.  Ibid. (citing Central Bank,

511 U. S. 164). The line we adopt today is just as administrable: Those who disseminate false statements with intent to defraud are primarily liable under Rules 10b–5(a) and (c), §10(b), and §17(a)(1), even if they are secondarily liable under Rule 10b–5(b).  Lorenzo suggests that classifying dissemination as a primary violation would inappropriately subject peripheral players in fraud (including him, naturally) to substantial liability.  We suspect the investors who received Lorenzo’s e-mails would not view the deception so favorably.  And as Central Bank itself made clear, even a bit participant in the securities markets “may be liable as a primary violator under [Rule] 10b–5” so long as “all of the requirements for primary liability . . . are met.”  Id., at 191.

															Lorenzo’s reliance on Stoneridge is even further afield.  There, we held that private plaintiffs could not bring suit against certain securities defendants based on undisclosed deceptions upon which the plaintiffs could not have relied.  552 U. S., at 159.  But the Commission, unlike private parties, need not show reliance in its enforcement actions.  And even supposing reliance were relevant here, Lorenzo’s conduct involved the direct transmission of false statements to prospective investors intended to induce reliance—far from the kind of concealed fraud at issue in Stoneridge.

															As for Lorenzo’s suggestion that those like him ought to be held secondarily liable, this offer will, far too often, prove illusory.  In instances where a “maker” of a false statement does not violate subsection (b) of the Rule (perhaps because he lacked the necessary intent), a disseminator of those statements, even one knowingly engaged in an egregious fraud, could not be held to have violated the “aiding and abetting” statute.  That is because the statute insists that there be a primary violator to whom the secondary violator provided “substantial assistance.”

15 U. S. C. §78t(e).  And the latter can be “deemed to be in violation” of the provision only “to the same extent as the person to whom such assistance is provided.”  Ibid.  In other words, if Acme Corp. could not be held liable under subsection (b) for a statement it made, then a knowing disseminator of those statements could not be held liable for aiding and abetting Acme under subsection (b).  And if, as Lorenzo claims, the disseminator has not primarily violated other parts of Rule 10b–5, then such a fraud, whatever its intent or consequences, might escape liability altogether.

															That is not what Congress intended.  Rather, Congress intended to root out all manner of fraud in the securities industry.  And it gave to the Commission the tools to accomplish that job.

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.

															So ordered.

															

															Justice Kavanaugh took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

															 

															APPENDIX

															

															17 CFR §240.10b–5

															

															“It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, by the use of any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce, or of the mails or of any facility of any national securities exchange, 

															“(a) To employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud,

															“(b) To make any untrue statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or

															“(c) To engage in any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person

															in connection with the purchase or sale of any security.”

															

															

15 U. S. C. §78j

															

															“It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or in- directly, by the use of any means or instrumentality of in- terstate commerce or of the mails, or of any facility of any national securities exchange—

															

															*  *  *

															

															“(b) To use or employ, in connection with the purchase or sale of any security registered on a national securities ex- change or any security not so registered, or any securities-based swap agreement[,] any manipulative or decep- tive device or contrivance in contravention of such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.”

															

															

15 U. S. C. §77q

															

															“(a) Use of interstate commerce for purpose of fraud or deceit

															

															“It shall be unlawful for any person in the offer or sale of any securities (including security-based swaps) or any security-based swap agreement . . . by the use of any means or instruments of transportation or communication in interstate commerce or by use of the mails, directly or indirectly—

															“(1) to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud, or

															“(2) to obtain money or property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances  under which they were made, not misleading; or

															“(3) to engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser.”

															

															

15 U. S. C. §78t

															

															“(e) Prosecution of persons who aid and abet violations

															

															“For purposes of any action brought by the Commission . . . , any person that knowingly or recklessly provides substantial assistance to another person in violation of a provision of this chapter, or of any rule or regulation issued under this chapter, shall be deemed in violation of such provision to the same extent as the person to whom such assistance is provided.
													
