::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-067
::decision_cite:: 17-155
::decision_name::  Hughes v. United States
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–155

															_________________

															ERIK LINDSEY HUGHES, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[June 4, 2018]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, concurring.

															In Freeman v. United States,

564 U. S. 522 (2011), this Court confronted the same question it definitively resolves today: whether criminal defendants who enter into plea agreements under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 11(c)(1)(C) are eligible for sentencing reductions under

18 U. S. C. §3582(c)(2).  Freeman ended in  a 4–1–4 decision that left lower courts confused as  to whether the plurality or the concurring opinion  controlled.

															The plurality of four Justices in Freeman concluded that defendants who plead guilty pursuant to a so-called “Type-C agreement” may be eligible for a sentence reduction under §3582(c)(2) because Type-C sentences are “based on the Guidelines” “to whatever extent the sentencing range in question was a relevant part of the analytic framework the judge used to determine the sentence or to approve the agreement.”  564 U. S., at 530.  Four Justices dissented.  Id., at 544–551 (opinion of Roberts, C. J.).  They would have held that a defendant who pleads guilty pursuant to a Type-C agreement is categorically ineligible for a sentence reduction under §3582(c)(2) because such a sentence is always “based on” the plea agreement, and not on the Guidelines.  Id., at 544–548.

															Parting ways with all eight of my colleagues, I concurred only in the judgment.  Id., at 534–544.  I held the view that sentences imposed under Type-C agreements are typically “based on” the agreements themselves, not on the Guidelines.  Id., at 535–536. “In the (C) agreement context,” I explained, “it is the binding plea agreement that is the foundation for the term of imprisonment to which the defendant is sentenced.”  Id., at 535.  But, in my view, that general rule was not absolute.  Rejecting the categorical rule adopted by the dissent, I instead concluded that some Type-C sentences were “based on” the Guidelines and thus eligible for sentencing reductions under §3582(c)(2).  Id., at 538–539.  Specifically, I clarified that §3582(c)(2) relief was available in cases where the Type-C agreement “call[s] for the defendant to be sentenced within a particular Guidelines sentencing range,” or in cases where the “plea agreement . . . provide[s] for a specific term of imprisonment . . . but also make[s] clear that the basis for the specified term is a Guidelines sentencing range.”  Id., at 538–539.  Because Freeman’s agreement presented one such case, I agreed with the plurality that he was eligible for a sentence reduction under §3582(c)(2).  See id., at 542–544.

															I continue to believe that my Freeman concurrence sets forth the most convincing interpretation of §3582(c)(2)’s statutory text.  But I also acknowledge that my concurrence precipitated a 4–1–4 decision that left significant confusion in its wake. Because Freeman’s fractured disposition provided insufficient guidance, courts of appeals have struggled over whether they should follow the Freeman plurality or my separate concurrence.  See ante, at 2–3.  As a result, “in the aftermath of Freeman, a defendant’s eligibility for a reduced sentence under §3582(c)(2) turns on the Circuit in which the case arises.”  Ante, at 8.  And, “even within Circuits that follow the Freeman concurrence, unwarranted disparities have resulted depending on the fortuity of whether a defendant’s Type-C agreement includes a specific-enough reference to a Guidelines range.”  Ibid.

															The integrity and legitimacy of our criminal justice system depends upon consistency, predictability, and evenhandedness.  Regrettably, the divided decisions in Freeman, and my concurrence in particular, have done little to foster those foundational principles.  Quite the opposite, my individual views, which “[n]o other Justice . . . shares,” have contributed to ongoing discord among the lower courts, sown confusion among litigants, and left “the governing rule uncertain.”  Arizona v. Gant,

556 U. S. 332, 354 (2009) (Scalia, J., concurring); see Brief for National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. as Amici Curiae 3–27 (arguing that the Freeman concurrence leads to unpredictable and inconsistent results).

															I therefore join the majority in full because doing so helps to ensure clarity and stability in the law and promotes “uniformity in sentencing imposed by different federal courts for similar criminal conduct.”  Molina-Martinez v. United States, 578 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (slip op., at 2) (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted; emphasis deleted).  Today’s majority opinion charts a clear path forward: It mitigates the inconsistencies and disparities occasioned (at least in part) by my concurrence.  It ensures that similarly situated defendants are subject to a uniform legal rule.  It studiously adheres to “this Court’s precedents since Freeman,” which firmly establish “that the Guidelines remain the foundation of federal sentencing decisions.”  Ante, at 8; see ante, at 12 (discussing Molina-Martinez, 578 U. S. ___; Peugh v. United States,

569 U. S. 530 (2013)).  And it aligns more closely than the dissent does with the view I articulated in Freeman.[1]  For all these reasons, I now lend my vote to the majority and accede in its holding “that a sentence imposed pursuant to a Type-C agreement is ‘based on’ the defendant’s Guidelines range so long as that range was part of the framework the district court relied on in imposing the sentence or accepting the agreement.”  Ante, at 9.[2]
Notes
1
 Unlike the majority, the dissent’s position is incompatible with my view in Freeman (and in this case) that criminal defendants who plead guilty under Type-C agreements are not categorically ineligible for relief under §3582(c)(2).  See 564 U. S., at 538–540 (Sotomayor, J., concurring in judgment).  Accordingly, I continue to “reject the categorical rule advanced by the Government and endorsed by the dissent.”  Id., at 539.  

2
 I am sensitive to the Government’s contention that allowing criminal defendants to obtain reductions of Type-C sentences under §3582(c)(2) might deprive the Government of the benefit of its bargain.  Brief for United States 52.  But, as the majority persuasively explains, that argument “has nothing to do with whether a defendant’s sentence was based on the Sentencing Guidelines under §3582(c)(2)” and therefore has no bearing on whether a defendant who has entered into a Type-C agreement is eligible for a sentence reduction.  Ante, at 12; see Freeman, 564 U. S., at 532 (plurality opinion) (“What is at stake . . . is a defendant’s eligibility for relief, not the extent of that relief ”).  All that said, there may be circumstances in which the Government makes substantial concessions in entering into a Type-C agreement with a defendant—e.g., by declining to pursue easily proved and weighty sentencing enhancements—such that there is a compelling case that the agreed-upon sentence in the Type-C agreement would not have been affected if the subsequently lowered Guidelines range had been in place at the relevant time.  If such circumstances exist, I expect that district courts will take that into account when deciding whether, and to what extent, a Type-C sentence should be reduced under §3582(c)(2).  See ante, at 12–13. 


