::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-024
::decision_cite:: 17-290
::decision_name::  Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. v. Albrecht
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–290

															_________________

															MERCK SHARP & DOHME CORP., PETITIONER v. DORIS ALBRECHT, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit

															[May 20, 2019]

															

															Justice Thomas, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion and write separately to explain my understanding of the relevant pre-emption principles and how they apply to this case.

															The Supremacy Clause of the Constitution provides:

															“This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding.”  Art. VI, cl. 2.

															Under this Clause, “[w]here state and federal law ‘directly conflict,’ state law must give way.”  PLIVA, Inc. v. Mensing,

564 U.S. 604, 617 (2011).  Although the Court has articulated several theories of pre-emption, Merck’s sole argument here is that state law is pre-empted because it is impossible for Merck to comply with federal and state law.  I remain skeptical that “physical impossibility” is a proper test for deciding whether a direct conflict exists between federal and state law.  But even under our impossibility precedents, Merck’s pre-emption defense fails.

															I

															As I have explained before, it is not obvious that the “ ‘physical impossibility’ standard is the best proxy for determining when state and federal laws ‘directly conflict’ for purposes of the Supremacy Clause.”  Wyeth v. Levine,

555 U.S. 555, 590 (2009) (opinion concurring in judgment).  Evidence from the founding suggests that, under the original meaning of the Supremacy Clause, federal law pre-empts state law only if the two are in logical contradiction.  See ibid.; Nelson, Preemption, 86 Va. L. Rev. 225, 260–261 (2000).  Sometimes, federal law will logically contradict state law even if it is possible for a person to comply with both.  For instance, “if federal law gives an individual the right to engage in certain behavior that state law prohibits, the laws would give contradictory commands notwithstanding the fact that an individual could comply with both by electing to refrain from the covered behavior.”  Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 590 (opinion of Thomas, J.).

															Merck does not advance this logical-contradiction standard, and it is doubtful that a pre-emption defense along these lines would succeed here.  “To say, as the statute does, that [Merck] may not market a drug without federal approval (i.e., without [a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)] approved label) is not to say that federal approval gives [Merck] the unfettered right, for all time, to market its drug with the specific label that was federally approved.”  Id., at 592.  Nothing in the federal brand-name-drug “statutory or regulatory scheme necessarily insulates [Merck] from liability under state law simply because the FDA has approved a particular label.”  Id., at 593.  The relevant question would be whether federal law gives Merck “an unconditional right to market [a] federally approved drug at all times with the precise label initially approved by the FDA,” id., at 592, or whether it instead provides a federal floor that can be supplemented by different state standards, see Brief for Cato Institute as Amicus Curiae 14, n. 4.  Absent a federal statutory right to sell a brand-name drug with an FDA-approved label, FDA approval “does not represent a finding that the drug, as labeled, can never be deemed unsafe by later federal  action, or as in this case, the application of state law.”  Wyeth, supra, at 592 (opinion of Thomas, J.).

															II

															Applying the Court’s impossibility precedents leads to the same conclusion.  The question for impossibility is whether it was “lawful under federal law for [Merck] to do what state law required of” it.  Mensing, 564 U. S., at 618.  Because “[p]re-emption analysis requires us to compare federal and state law,” I “begin by identifying the [relevant] state tort duties and federal labeling requirements.”  Id., at 611.  Respondents’ claim here is “that state law obligated Merck to add a warning about atypical femur fractures” to the Warnings and Precautions section of Fosamax’s label.  In re Fosamax (Alendronate Sodium) Prods. Liability Litig., 852 F.3d 268, 282 (CA3 2017).  Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, a manufacturer of a brand-name drug “bears responsibility for the content of its label at all times.”  Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 570–571 (majority opinion).  The manufacturer “is charged both with crafting an adequate label and with ensuring that its warnings remain adequate as long as the drug is on the market.”  Id., at 571.  Generally, to propose labeling changes, the manufacturer can submit a Prior Approval Supplement (PAS) application, which requires FDA approval before the changes are made.  21 CFR §314.70(b) (2018).  Alternatively, under the FDA’s Changes Being Effected (CBE) regulation, if the manufacturer would like to change a label to “add or strengthen a contraindication, warning, precaution, or adverse reaction” “to reflect newly acquired information,” it can change the label immediately upon filing its supplemental application with the FDA, without waiting for FDA approval.  §314.70(c)(6)(iii); see Wyeth, supra, at 568.  If the FDA later disapproves the CBE application, “it may order the manufacturer to cease distribution of the drug product(s)” with the new labeling.  §314.70(c)(7).

															Here, Merck’s impossibility pre-emption defense fails because it does not identify any federal law that “prohibited [it] from adding any and all warnings . . . that would satisfy state law.”  Ante, at 13.  By its reference to “the Laws of the United States,” the Supremacy Clause “requires that pre-emptive effect be given only to those federal standards and policies that are set forth in, or necessarily follow from, the statutory text that was produced through the constitutionally required bicameral and presentment procedures.”  Wyeth, supra, at 586 (opinion of Thomas, J.).  Merck’s primary argument, based on various agency communications, is that the FDA would have rejected a hypothetical labeling change submitted via the CBE process.  But neither agency musings nor hypothetical future rejections constitute pre-emptive “Laws” under the Supremacy Clause.

															As the Court describes, in 2008 Merck submitted PAS applications to add certain language regarding fractures to the Adverse Reactions and the Warnings and Precautions sections of Fosamax’s label.  Ante, at 6. In 2009, the FDA sent Merck a “complete response” letter “agree[ing] that atypical and subtrochanteric fractures should be added” to the Adverse Reactions section.  App. 510–511.  But the letter said that Merck’s proposed Warnings and Precautions language, which focused on “the risk factors for stress fractures,” was “inadequate” because “[i]dentification of ‘stress fractures’ may not be clearly related to the atypical subtrochanteric fractures that have been reported in the literature.”  Id., at 511.  In accord with FDA regulations, the letter required Merck to take one of three actions: (1) “[r]esubmit the application . . . , addressing all deficiencies identified in the complete response letter”; (2) “[w]ithdraw the application . . . without prejudice to a subsequent submission”; or (3) “[a]sk the agency to provide . . . an opportunity for a hearing,” after which “the agency will either approve” or “refuse to approve the application.”  21 CFR §314.110(b); see App. 512.  As this regulation suggests and the FDA has explained, complete response letters merely “infor[m] sponsors of changes that must be made before an application can be approved, with no implication as to the ultimate approvability of the application.”  73 Fed. Reg. 39588 (2008) (emphasis added).  In other words, the 2009 letter neither marked “the consummation of the agency’s decisionmaking process” nor determined Merck’s “rights or obligations.”  Bennett v. Spear,

520 U.S. 154, 178 (1997) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Instead, it was “of a merely tentative or interlocutory nature.”  Ibid.  Therefore, the letter was not a final agency action with the force of law, so it cannot be “Law” with pre-emptive effect.

															Merck’s argument that the 2009 letter and other agency communications suggest that the FDA would have denied a future labeling change fares no better: hypothetical agency action is not “Law.”  As Merck acknowledges, it could have resubmitted its PAS applications, sought a hearing, or changed its label at any time through the CBE process.  See Reply Brief 13.  Indeed, when Merck instead decided to withdraw its PAS applications, it added atypical femoral fractures to the Adverse Reactions section through the CBE process.  That process also enabled Merck to add language to the Warnings and Precautions section, but Merck did not do so.  If it had, it could have satisfied its federal and alleged state-law duties—meaning that it was possible for Merck to independently satisfy both sets of duties.  Merck’s belief that the FDA would have eventually rejected a CBE application does not make an earlier CBE change impossible.  As the Court correctly explains, “ ‘the possibility of impossibility [is] not enough.’ ”  Ante, at 13–14.  The very point of the CBE process is that a manufacturer can “unilaterally” make a labeling change that does not violate other federal law, Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 573; see id., at 570; e.g., 

21 U. S. C. §352, at least until the FDA rules on its application.[1]

															Because Merck points to no statute, regulation, or other agency action with the force of law that would have prohibited it from complying with its alleged state-law duties, its pre-emption defense should fail as a matter of law.
Notes
1
In 2007, Congress “granted the FDA statutory authority to require a manufacturer to change its drug label based on safety information that becomes available after a drug’s initial approval,” but even after this amendment, brand-name-drug “manufacturers remain responsible for updating their labels.”  Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 567–568; see

21 U. S. C. §355(o)(4).  As I understand the Court’s opinion, if proper agency actions pursuant to this amendment, or other federal law, “prohibited the drug manufacturer from . . . satisfy[ing] state law,” state law would be pre-empted under our impossibility precedents regardless of whether the manufacturer “show[ed] that it fully informed the FDA of the justifications for the warning required by state law.”  Ante, at 13; see, e.g., Wyeth, 555 U. S., at 576; id., at 582 (Breyer, J., concurring).  Of course, the only proper agency actions are those “that are set forth in, or necessarily follow from, the statutory text,” and they must have the force of law to be pre-emptive.  Id., at 586 (opinion of Thomas, J.).  I am aware of no such agency action here that prevented Merck from complying with state law. 


