::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-023
::decision_cite:: 17-204
::decision_name::  Apple, Inc. v. Pepper
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–204

															_________________

															APPLE INC., PETITIONER v. ROBERT PEPPER, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[May 13, 2019]

															Justice Gorsuch, with whom The Chief Justice, Justice Thomas, and Justice Alito join, dissenting.

															More than 40 years ago, in Illinois Brick Co. v. Illinois,

431 U.S. 720 (1977), this Court held that an antitrust plaintiff can’t sue a defendant for overcharging someone else who might (or might not) have passed on all (or some) of the overcharge to him.  Illinois Brick held that these convoluted “pass on” theories of damages violate traditional principles of proximate causation and that the right plaintiff to bring suit is the one on whom the overcharge immediately and surely fell.  Yet today the Court lets a pass-on case proceed.  It does so by recasting Illinois Brick as a rule forbidding only suits where the plaintiff does not contract directly with the defendant.  This replaces a rule of proximate cause and economic reality with an easily manipulated and formalistic rule of contractual privity.  That’s not how antitrust law is supposed to work, and it’s an uncharitable way of treating a precedent which—whatever its flaws—is far more sensible than the rule the Court installs in its place.

															I

															To understand Illinois Brick, it helps to start with the case that paved the way for that decision: Hanover Shoe, Inc. v. United Shoe Machinery Corp.,

392 U.S. 481 (1968).  Hanover sued United, a company that supplied machinery Hanover used to make shoes.  Hanover alleged that  United’s illegal monopoly in the shoe-making-machinery market had allowed it to charge supracompetitive prices.  As damages, Hanover sought to recover the amount it had overpaid United for machinery.  United replied that Hanover hadn’t been damaged at all because, United asserted, Hanover had not absorbed the supposedly “illegal overcharge” but had “passed the cost on to its customers” by raising the prices it charged for shoes.  Id., at 487–488, and n. 6.  This Court called United’s argument a “ ‘passing-on’ defense” because it suggested that a court should consider whether an antitrust plaintiff had “passed on” the defendant’s overcharge to its own customers when assessing if and to what degree the plaintiff was injured by the defendant’s anticompetitive conduct.  Id., at 488.

															This Court rejected that defense.  While §4 of the Clayton Act allows private suits for those injured by antitrust violations, we have long interpreted this language against the backdrop of the common law.  See, e.g., Associated Gen. Contractors of Cal., Inc. v. Carpenters,

459 U.S. 519, 529–531 (1983).  And under ancient rules of proximate causation, the “ ‘general tendency of the law, in regard to damages at least, is not to go beyond the first step.’ ”  Hanover Shoe, 392 U. S., at 490, n. 8 (quoting Southern Pacific Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Lumber Co.,

245 U.S. 531, 533 (1918)).  In Hanover Shoe, the first step was United’s overcharging of Hanover.  To proceed beyond that and inquire whether Hanover had passed on the overcharge to its customers, the Court held, would risk the sort of problems traditional principles of proximate cause were designed to avoid.  “[N]early insuperable” questions would follow about whether Hanover had the capacity and incentive to pass on to its customers in the shoe-making market United’s alleged monopoly rent from the separate shoe-making-machinery market.  392 U. S., at 493.  Resolving those questions would, in turn, necessitate a trial within a trial about Hanover’s power and conduct in its own market, with the attendant risk that proceedings would become “long and complicated” and would “involv[e] massive evidence and complicated theories.”  Ibid.
Illinois Brick was just the other side of the coin.  With Hanover Shoe having held that an antitrust defendant could not rely on a pass-on theory to avoid damages, Illinois Brick addressed whether an antitrust plaintiff could rely on a pass-on theory to recover damages.  The State of Illinois had sued several manufacturers of concrete blocks, alleging that the defendants’ price-fixing conspiracy had enabled them to overcharge building contractors, who in turn had passed on those charges to their customers, including the State.  Recognizing that Hanover Shoe had already prohibited antitrust violators from using a “pass-on theory” defensively, the Court declined to “permit offensive use of a pass-on theory against an alleged violator that could not use the same theory as a defense.”  431 U. S., at 735.  “Permitting the use of pass-on theories under §4,” the Court reasoned, would require determining how much of the manufacturer’s monopoly rent was absorbed by intermediary building contractors and how much they were able and chose to pass on to their customers like the State.  Id., at 737.  Allowing pass-on theories would, as well, allow “plaintiffs at each level in the distribution chain” to “assert conflicting claims to a common fund,” which would require “massive efforts to apportion the recovery among all potential plaintiffs that could have absorbed part of the overcharge—from direct purchasers to middlemen to ultimate consumers.”  Ibid.  Better again, the Court decided, to adhere to traditional rules of proximate causation and allow only the first affected customers—the building contractors—to sue for the monopoly rents they had directly paid.

															There is nothing surprising in any of this.  Unless Congress provides otherwise, this Court generally reads statutory causes of action as “limited to plaintiffs whose injuries are proximately caused by violations of the statute.”  Lexmark Int’l, Inc. v. Static Control Components, Inc.,

572 U.S. 118, 132 (2014).  That proximate cause requirement typically bars suits for injuries that are “derivative of misfortunes visited upon a third person by the defendant’s acts.”  Id., at 133 (internal quotation marks omitted).  So, for example, if a defendant’s false advertising causes harm to one of its competitors, the competitor can sue the false advertiser under the Lanham Act.  But if the competitor is unable to pay its rent as a result, the competitor’s landlord can’t sue the false advertiser, because the landlord’s harm derives from the harm to the competitor.  Id., at 134; see also, e.g., Bank of America Corp. v. Miami, 581 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2017) (slip op., at 10–11); Dura Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v. Broudo,

544 U.S. 336, 346 (2005); Holmes v. Securities Investor Protection Corporation,

503 U.S. 258, 268–270 (1992).  This Court has long understood Illinois Brick as simply applying these traditional proximate cause principles in the antitrust context.  See Associated Gen. Contractors, 459 U. S., at 532–535, 544–545.[1]

															II

															The lawsuit before us depends on just the sort of pass-on theory that Illinois Brick forbids.  The plaintiffs bought apps from third-party app developers (or manufacturers) in Apple’s retail Internet App Store, at prices set by the developers.  The lawsuit alleges that Apple is a monopolist retailer and that the 30% commission it charges developers for the right to sell through its platform represents an anticompetitive price.  The problem is that the 30% commission falls initially on the developers.  So if the commission is in fact a monopolistic overcharge, the developers are the parties who are directly injured by it.  Plaintiffs can be injured only if the developers are able and choose to pass on the overcharge to them in the form of higher app prices that the developers alone control.  Plaintiffs admitted as much in the district court, where they described their theory of injury this way: “[I]f Apple tells the developer . . . we’re going to take this 30 percent commission . . . what’s the developer going to do?  The developer is going to increase its price to cover Apple’s . . . demanded profit.”  App. 143.

															Because this is exactly the kind of “pass-on theory” Illinois Brick rejected, it should come as no surprise that the concerns animating that decision are also implicated.  Like other pass-on theories, plaintiffs’ theory will necessitate a complex inquiry into how Apple’s conduct affected third-party pricing decisions.  And it will raise difficult questions about apportionment of damages between app developers and their customers, along with the risk of duplicative damages awards.  If anything, plaintiffs’ claims present these difficulties even more starkly than did the claims at issue in Illinois Brick.

															Consider first the question of causation.  To determine if Apple’s conduct damaged plaintiffs at all (and if so, the magnitude of their damages), a court will first have to explore whether and to what extent each individual app developer was able—and then opted—to pass on the 30% commission to its consumers in the form of higher app prices.  Sorting this out, if it can be done at all, will entail wrestling with “ ‘complicated theories’ ” about “how the relevant market variables would have behaved had there been no overcharge.”  Illinois Brick, 431 U. S., at 741–743.  Will the court hear testimony to determine the market power of each app developer, how each set its prices, and what it might have charged consumers for apps if Apple’s commission had been lower?  Will the court also consider expert testimony analyzing how market factors might have influenced developers’ capacity and willingness to pass on Apple’s alleged monopoly overcharge?  And will the court then somehow extrapolate its findings to all of the tens of thousands of developers who sold apps through the App Store at different prices and times over the course of years?

															This causation inquiry will be complicated further by Apple’s requirement that all app prices end in $0.99.  As plaintiffs acknowledge, this rule has caused prices for the “vast majority” of apps to “cluster” at exactly $0.99.  Brief for Respondents 44.  And a developer charging $0.99 for its app can’t raise its price by just enough to recover the 30-cent commission.  Instead, if the developer wants to pass on the commission to consumers, it has to more than double its price to $1.99 (doubling the commission in the process), which could significantly affect its sales.  In short, because Apple’s 99-cent rule creates a strong disincentive for developers to raise their prices, it makes plaintiffs’ pass-on theory of injury even harder to prove.  Yet the court will have to consider all of this when determining what damages, if any, plaintiffs suffered as a result of Apple’s allegedly excessive 30% commission.[2]

															Plaintiffs’ claims will also necessitate “massive efforts to apportion the recovery among all potential plaintiffs that could have absorbed part of the overcharge,” including both consumers and app developers.  Illinois Brick, 431 U. S., at 737.  If, as plaintiffs contend, Apple’s 30% commission is a monopolistic overcharge, then the app developers have a claim against Apple to recover whatever portion of the commission they did not pass on to consumers.  Before today, Hanover Shoe would have prevented Apple from reducing its liability to the developers by arguing that they had passed on the overcharge to consumers.  But the Court’s holding that Illinois Brick doesn’t govern this situation surely must mean Hanover Shoe doesn’t either.  So courts will have to divvy up the commissions Apple collected between the developers and the consumers.  To do that, they’ll have to figure out which party bore what portion of the overcharge in every purchase.  And if the developers bring suit separately from the consumers, Apple might be at risk of duplicative damages awards totaling more than the full amount it col- lected in commissions.  To avoid that possibility, it may turn out that the developers are necessary parties who will have to be joined in the plaintiffs’ lawsuit.  See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 19(a)(1)(B); Illinois Brick, 431 U. S., at 739 (explaining that “[t]hese absent potential claimants would seem to fit the classic definition of ‘necessary parties,’ for purposes of compulsory joinder”).[3]

															III

															The United States and its antitrust regulators agree with all of this, so how does the Court reach such a different conclusion?  Seizing on Illinois Brick’s use of the shorthand phrase “direct purchasers” to describe the parties immediately injured by the monopoly overcharge in that case, the Court (re)characterizes Illinois Brick as a rule that anyone who purchases goods directly from an alleged antitrust violator can sue, while anyone who doesn’t, can’t.  Under this revisionist version of Illinois Brick, the dispositive question becomes whether an “intermediary in the distribution chain” stands between the plaintiff and the defendant.  Ante, at 6.  And because the plaintiff app purchasers in this case happen to have purchased apps directly from Apple, the Court reasons, they may sue.

															This exalts form over substance.  Instead of focusing on the traditional proximate cause question where the alleged overcharge is first (and thus surely) felt, the Court’s test turns on who happens to be in privity of contract with whom.  But we’ve long recognized that antitrust law should look at “the economic reality of the relevant transactions” rather than “formal conceptions of contract law.”  United States v. Concentrated Phosphate Export Assn., Inc.,

393 U.S. 199, 208 (1968).  And this case illustrates why.  To evade the Court’s test, all Apple must do is amend its contracts.  Instead of collecting payments for apps sold in the App Store and remitting the balance (less its commission) to developers, Apple can simply specify that consumers’ payments will flow the other way: directly to the developers, who will then remit commissions to Apple.  No antitrust reason exists to treat these contractual arrangements differently, and doing so will only induce firms to abandon their preferred—and presumably more efficient—distribution arrangements in favor of less efficient ones, all so they might avoid an arbitrary legal rule.  See Copperweld Corp. v. Independence Tube Corp.,

467 U.S. 752, 763, 772–774 (1984) (rejecting an “ ‘artificial distinction’ ” that “serves no valid antitrust goals but merely deprives consumers and producers of the benefits” of a particular business model).

															Nor does Illinois Brick come close to endorsing such a blind formalism.  Yes, as the Court notes, the plaintiff in Illinois Brick did contract directly with an intermediary rather than with the putative antitrust violator.  But Illinois Brick’s rejection of pass-on claims, and its explanation of the difficulties those claims present, had nothing to do with privity of contract.  Instead and as we have seen, its rule and reasoning grew from the “general tendency of the law . . . not to go beyond” the party that first felt the sting of the alleged overcharge, and from the complications that can arise when courts attempt to discern whether and to what degree damages were passed on to others.  Supra, at 2–3.  The Court today risks replacing a cogent rule about proximate cause with a pointless and easily evaded imposter.  We do not usually read our own precedents so uncharitably.

															Maybe the Court proceeds as it does today because it just disagrees with Illinois Brick.  After all, the Court not only displaces a sensible rule in favor of a senseless one; it also proceeds to question each of Illinois Brick’s rationales—doubting that those directly injured are always the best plaintiffs to bring suit, that calculating damages for pass-on plaintiffs will often be unduly complicated, and that conflicting claims to a common fund justify limiting who may sue.  Ante, at 11–13.  The Court even tells us that any “ambiguity” about the permissibility of pass-on damages should be resolved “in the direction of the statutory text,” ante, at 8—ignoring that Illinois Brick followed the well-trodden path of construing the statutory text in light of background common law principles of proximate cause.  Last but not least, the Court suggests that the traditional understanding of Illinois Brick leads to “arbitrary and unprincipled” results.  Ante, at 8.  It asks us to consider two hypothetical scenarios that, it says, prove the point.  The first is a “markup” scenario in which a monopolistic retailer buys a product from a manufacturer for $6 and then decides to sell the product to a consumer for $10, applying a supracompetitive $4 markup.  The second is a “commission” scenario in which a manufacturer directs a monopolistic retailer to sell the manufacturer’s product to a consumer for $10 and the retailer keeps a supracompetitive 40% commission, sending $6 back to the manufac- turer.  The two scenarios are economically the same, the Court asserts, and forbidding recovery in the second for lack of proximate cause makes no sense.

															But there is nothing arbitrary or unprincipled about Illinois Brick’s rule or results.  The notion that the causal chain must stop somewhere is an ancient and venerable one.  As with most any rule of proximate cause, reasonable people can debate whether Illinois Brick drew exactly the right line in cutting off claims where it did.  But the line it drew is intelligible, principled, administrable, and far more reasonable than the Court’s artificial rule of contractual privity.  Nor do the Court’s hypotheticals come close to proving otherwise.  In the first scenario, the markup falls initially on the consumer, so there’s no doubt that the retailer’s anticompetitive conduct proximately caused the consumer’s injury.  Meanwhile, in the second scenario the commission falls initially on the manufacturer, and the consumer won’t feel the pain unless the manufacturer can and does recoup some or all of the elevated commission by raising its own prices.  In that situation, the manufacturer is the directly injured party, and the difficulty of disaggregating damages between those directly and indirectly harmed means that the consumer can’t establish proximate cause under traditional principles.

															Some amici share the Court’s skepticism of Illinois Brick.  They even urge us to overrule Illinois Brick, assuring us that “modern economic techniques” can now mitigate any problems that arise in allocating damages between those who suffer them directly and those who suffer them indirectly.  Brief for State of Texas et al. as Amici Curiae 25.  Maybe there is something to these arguments; maybe not.  But there’s plenty of reason to decline any invitation to take even a small step away from Illinois Brick today.  The plaintiffs have not asked us to overrule our precedent—in fact, they’ve disavowed any such request.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 40.  So we lack the benefit of the adversarial process in a complex area involving a 40-year-old precedent and many hard questions.  For example, if we are really inclined to overrule Illinois Brick, doesn’t that mean we must do the same to Hanover Shoe?  If the proximate cause line is no longer to be drawn at the first injured party, how far down the causal chain can a plaintiff be and still recoup damages?  Must all potential claimants to the single monopoly rent be gathered in a single lawsuit as necessary parties (and if not, why not)?  Without any invitation or reason to revisit our precedent, and with so many grounds for caution, I would have thought the proper course today would have been to afford Illinois Brick full effect, not to begin whittling it away to a bare formalism.  I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 For this reason, it’s hard to make sense of the suggestion that Illinois Brick may not apply to claims for injunctive relief, ante, at 5, n. 1.  Under our normal rule of construction, a plaintiff who’s not proximately harmed by a defendant’s unlawful conduct has no cause of action to sue the defendant for any type of relief.  Lexmark Int’l, Inc. v. Static Control Components, Inc.,

572 U.S. 118, 135 (2014) (although a plaintiff that “cannot quantify its losses with sufficient certainty to recover damages . . . may still be entitled to injunctive relief,” the requirement of proximate causation “must be met in every case”). 

2
 Plaintiffs haven’t argued (and so have forfeited in this Court any argument) that Apple’s imposition of the 99-cent rule was itself an antitrust violation that injured consumers by raising the price of apps above competitive levels.  They didn’t mention the 99-cent rule in their complaint in district court or in their briefs to the court of appeals.  And, as I’ve noted, they concede that they are seeking damages “based solely on” the 30% commission.  Brief in Opposition 5. 

3
 The Court denies that allowing both consumers and developers to sue over the same allegedly unlawful commission will “result in ‘conflicting claims to a common fund’ ” as Illinois Brick feared.  Ante, at 12.  But Apple charged only one commission on each sale.  So even assuming for argument’s sake that the 30% commission was entirely illegal, Apple can only be required to pay out in damages, at most, the full amount it received in commissions.  To their credit, even plaintiffs have conceded as much, acknowledging that because “there is only one 30% markup,” any claim by the developers against Apple would necessarily be seeking “a piece of the same 30% pie.”  Brief in Opposition 12.  It’s a mystery why the Court refuses to accept that sensible concession. 


