::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-007
::decision_cite:: 17-5554
::decision_name::  Stokeling v. United States
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															  NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–5554

															_________________

															DENARD STOKELING, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[January 15, 2019]

															

															Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.

															This case requires us to decide whether a robbery offense that has as an element the use of force sufficient to overcome a victim’s resistance necessitates the use of “physical force” within the meaning of the Armed Career Criminal Act (ACCA),

18 U. S. C. §924(e)(2)(B)(i).  We conclude that it does.

															I

															In the early hours of July 27, 2015, two people burgled the Tongue & Cheek restaurant in Miami Beach, Florida.  Petitioner Denard Stokeling was an employee of the restaurant, and the Miami Beach Police identified him as a suspect based on surveillance video from the burglary and witness statements.  After conducting a criminal background check, police learned that Stokeling had previously been convicted of three felonies—home invasion, kidnaping, and robbery.  When confronted, Stokeling admitted that he had a gun in his backpack.  The detectives opened the backpack and discovered a 9-mm semiautomatic firearm, a magazine, and 12 rounds of ammunition.

															Stokeling pleaded guilty in federal court to possessing a firearm and ammunition after having been convicted of a felony, in violation of

18 U. S. C. §922(g)(1).  The probation office recommended that Stokeling be sentenced as an armed career criminal under ACCA, which provides that a person who violates §922(g) and who has three previous convictions for a “violent felony” shall be imprisoned for a minimum of 15 years.  §924(e).  ACCA defines “violent felony” as “any crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year” that

															“(i) has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person of another; or

															“(ii) is burglary, arson, or extortion, involves use of explosives, or otherwise involves conduct that presents a serious potential risk of physical injury to another.”  §924(e)(2)(B).

															As relevant here, Stokeling objected that his 1997 Florida robbery conviction was not a predicate offense under ACCA.  This conviction, he argued, did not qualify under the first clause—the “elements clause”—because Florida robbery does not have “as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force.” [1]*

															Under Florida law, robbery is defined as “the taking of money or other property . . . from the person or custody of another, . . . when in the course of the taking there is the use of force, violence, assault, or putting in fear.”  Fla. Stat. §812.13(1) (1995).  The Florida Supreme Court has explained that the “use of force” necessary to commit robbery requires “resistance by the victim that is overcome by the physical force of the offender.”  Robinson v. State, 692 So. 2d 883, 886 (1997).

															Instead of applying a categorical approach to the elements clause, the District Court evaluated whether the facts of Stokeling’s robbery conviction were serious enough to warrant an enhancement.  The court concluded that, although Stokeling “ ‘grabbed [the victim] by the neck and tried to remove her necklaces’ ” as she “ ‘held onto’ ” them, his actions did not “justify an enhancement.”  Sentencing Hearing in 15–cv–20815 (SD Fla.), Doc. 45, pp. 10–11.  The court then sentenced Stokeling to less than half of the mandatory minimum 15-year term of imprisonment provided by ACCA.

															The Eleventh Circuit reversed.  684 Fed. Appx. 870 (2017).  It held that the District Court erred in making its own factual determination about the level of violence involved in Stokeling’s particular robbery offense.  Id., at 871.  The court also rejected Stokeling’s argument that Florida robbery does not categorically require sufficient force to constitute a violent felony under ACCA’s elements clause.  Id., at 871–872.

															We granted certiorari to address whether the “force” required to commit robbery under Florida law qualifies as “physical force” for purposes of the elements clause.  584 U. S. ___ (2018).  We now affirm.

															II

															Construing the language of the elements clause in light of the history of ACCA and our opinion in Johnson v. United States,

559 U. S. 133 (2010), we conclude that the elements clause encompasses robbery offenses that require the criminal to overcome the victim’s resistance.

															A

															As originally enacted, ACCA prescribed a 15-year minimum sentence for any person who received, possessed, or transported a firearm following three prior convictions “for robbery or burglary.”  18 U. S. C. App. §1202(a) (1982 ed., Supp. II).  Robbery was defined in relevant part as “any felony consisting of the taking of the property of another from the person or presence of another by force or violence.”  §1202(c)(8) (1982 ed., Supp. II) (emphasis added).

															The statute’s definition mirrored the elements of the common-law crime of robbery, which has long required force or violence.  At common law, an unlawful taking was merely larceny unless the crime involved “violence.”  2 J. Bishop, Criminal Law §1156, p. 860 (J. Zane & C. Zollman eds., 9th ed. 1923).  And “violence” was “committed if sufficient force [was] exerted to overcome the resistance encountered.”  Id., at 861.

															A few examples illustrate the point.  Under the common law, it was robbery “to seize another’s watch or purse, and use sufficient force to break a chain or guard by which it is attached to his person, or to run against another, or rudely push him about, for the purpose of diverting his attention and robbing him.” W. Clark & W. Marshall, Law of Crimes 554 (H. Lazell ed., 2d ed. 1905) (Clark & Marshall) (footnotes omitted).  Similarly, it was robbery to pull a diamond pin out of a woman’s hair when doing so tore away hair attached to the pin.  See 2 W. Russell, Crimes and Indictable Misdemeanors 68 (2d ed. 1828).  But the crime was larceny, not robbery, if the thief did not have to overcome such resistance.

															In fact, common-law authorities frequently used the terms “violence” and “force” interchangeably.  See ibid. (concluding that “if any injury be done to the person, or there be any struggle by the party to keep possession of the property before it be taken from him, there will be a sufficient actual ‘violence’ ” to establish robbery); Clark & Marshall 553 (“Sufficient force must be used to overcome resistance. . . . If there is any injury to the person of the owner, or if he resists the attempt to rob him, and his resistance is overcome, there is sufficient violence to make the taking robbery, however slight the resistance” (emphasis added)).  The common law also did not distinguish between gradations of “violence.”  If an act physically overcame a victim’s resistance, “however slight” that resistance might be, it necessarily constituted violence.  Ibid.; 4 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 242 (1769) (distinguishing “taking . . . by force” from “privately stealing,” and stating that the use of this “violence” differentiates robbery from other larcenies); see also 3 id., at 120 (explaining, in the battery context, that “the law cannot draw the line between different degrees of violence, and therefore totally prohibits the first and lowest stage of it”).

															The overlap between “force” and “violence” at common law is reflected in modern legal and colloquial usage of these terms.  “Force” means “[p]ower, violence, or pressure directed against a person or thing,” Black’s Law Dictionary 656 (7th ed. 1999), or “unlawful violence threatened or committed against persons or property,” Random House Dictionary of the English Language 748 (2d ed. 1987).  Likewise, “violence” implies force, including an “unjust or unwarranted use of force.”  Black’s Law Dictionary, at 1564; accord, Random House Dictionary, at 2124 (“rough or injurious physical force, action, or treatment,” or “an unjust or unwarranted exertion of force or power, as against rights or laws”).

															Against this background, Congress, in the original ACCA, defined robbery as requiring the use of “force or violence”—a clear reference to the common law of robbery.  See Samantar v. Yousuf,

560 U. S. 305, 320, n. 13 (2010) (“Congress ‘is understood to legislate against a background of common-law . . . principles’ ”).  And the level of “force” or “violence” needed at common law was by this time well established: “Sufficient force must be used to overcome resistance . . . however slight the resistance.”  Clark & Marshall 553.

															In 1986, Congress amended the relevant provisions of ACCA to their current form.  The amendment was titled Expansion of Predicate Offenses for Armed Career Criminal Penalties.  See Career Criminals Amendment Act of 1986, §1402,

100Stat.
3207–39.  This amendment replaced the two enumerated crimes of “robbery or burglary” with the current elements clause, a new enumerated-offenses list, and a (now-defunct) residual clause.  See Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015).  In the new statute, robbery was no longer enumerated as a predicate offense.  But the newly created elements clause extended ACCA to cover any offense that has as an element “the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force.”

18 U. S. C. §924(e)(2)(B)(i) (2012 ed.) (emphasis added).

															“ ‘[I]f a word is obviously transplanted from another legal source, whether the common law or other legislation, it brings the old soil with it.’ ”  Hall v. Hall, 584 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 13) (quoting Frankfurter, Some Reflections on the Reading of Statutes, 47 Colum. L. Rev. 527, 537 (1947)).  That principle supports our interpretation of the term “force” here.  By retaining the term “force” in the 1986 version of ACCA and otherwise “[e]xpan[ding]” the predicate offenses under ACCA, Congress made clear that the “force” required for common-law robbery would be sufficient to justify an enhanced sentence under the new elements clause.  We can think of no reason to read “force” in the revised statute to require anything more than the degree of “force” required in the 1984 statute.  And it would be anomalous to read “force” as excluding the quintessential ACCA-predicate crime of robbery, despite the amendment’s retention of the term “force” and its stated intent to expand the number of qualifying offenses.

															The symmetry between the 1984 definition of robbery (requiring the use of “force or violence”) and the 1986 elements clause (requiring the use of “physical force”) is striking.  By replacing robbery as an enumerated offense with a clause that has “force” as its touchstone, Congress made clear that “force” retained the same common-law definition that undergirded the original definition of robbery adopted a mere two years earlier.  That conclusion is reinforced by the fact that the original 1984 statute defined “robbery” using terms with well-established common-law meanings.

															Our understanding of “physical force” is further buttressed by the then widely accepted definitions of robbery in the States.  In 1986, a significant majority of the States defined nonaggravated robbery as requiring force that overcomes a victim’s resistance.  The Government counts 43 States that measured force by this degree, 5 States that required “force” to cause bodily injury, and 2 States and the District of Columbia that permitted force to encompass something less, such as purse snatching.  App. B to Brief for United States.  Stokeling counters that, at most, 31 States defined force as overcoming victim resistance.  Reply Brief 21.  We need not declare a winner in this numbers game because, either way, it is clear that many States’ robbery statutes would not qualify as ACCA predicates under Stokeling’s reading.

															His reading would disqualify more than just basic-robbery statutes.  Departing from the common-law understanding of “force” would also exclude other crimes that have as an element the force required to commit basic robbery.  For instance, Florida requires the same element of “force” for both armed robbery and basic robbery.  See Fla. Stat. §812.13(2)(a) (distinguishing armed robbery from robbery by requiring the additional element of “carr[ying] a firearm or other deadly weapon” during the robbery).  Thus, as Stokeling’s counsel admitted at oral argument, “armed robbery in Florida” would not qualify under ACCA if his view were adopted.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 3–4; see United States v. Lee, 886 F. 3d 1161, 1163, n. 1 (CA11 2018) (treating “Florida strong-arm robbery [i.e., basic robbery], armed robbery, and attempted robbery . . . the same for purposes of analyzing the ACCA’s elements clause”).

															Where, as here, the applicability of a federal criminal statute requires a state conviction, we have repeatedly declined to construe the statute in a way that would render it inapplicable in many States.  See, e.g., United States v. Castleman,

572 U. S. 157, 167 (2014) (reading “physical force” to include common-law force, in part because a different reading would render

18 U. S. C. §922(g)(9) “ineffectual in at least 10 States”); Voisine v. United States, 579 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (slip op., at 9) (declining to interpret §912(a)(33)(A) in a way that would “risk rendering §922(g)(9) broadly inoperative” in 34 States and the District of Columbia).  That approach is appropriate here as well.

															B

															Our understanding of “physical force” comports with Johnson v. United States,

559 U. S. 133 (2010).  There, the Court held that “ ‘actua[l] and intentiona[l] touching’ ”—the level of force necessary to commit common-law misdemeanor battery—did not require the “degree of force” necessary to qualify as a “violent felony” under ACCA’s elements clause.  Id., at 138, 140.  To reach this conclusion, the Court parsed the meaning of the phrase “physical force.”  First, it explained that the modifier “physical” “plainly refers to force exerted by and through concrete bodies—distinguishing physical force, from, for example, intellectual force or emotional force.”  Id., at 138.  The Court then considered “whether the term ‘force’ in [the elements clause] has the specialized meaning that it bore in the common-law definition of battery.”  Id., at 139.  After reviewing the context of the statute, the Court rejected the Government’s suggestion that “force” encompassed even the “slightest offensive touching.”  Ibid.  Instead, it held that “physical force” means “violent force—that is, force capable of causing physical pain or injury to another person.”  Id., at 140.  Applying that standard to a Florida battery law criminalizing “any intentional physical contact,” the Court concluded that the law did not require the use of “physical force” within the meaning of ACCA.  Ibid.

															Stokeling argues that Johnson rejected as insufficient the degree of “force” required to commit robbery under Florida law because it is not “substantial force.”  We dis-agree.  The nominal contact that Johnson addressed in- volved physical force that is different in kind from the violent force necessary to overcome resistance by a victim.  The force necessary for misdemeanor battery does not require resistance or even physical aversion on the part of the victim; the “unwanted” nature of the physical contact itself suffices to render it unlawful.  See State v. Hearns, 961 So. 2d 211, 216 (Fla. 2007).

															By contrast, the force necessary to overcome a victim’s physical resistance is inherently “violent” in the sense contemplated by Johnson, and “suggest[s] a degree of power that would not be satisfied by the merest touching.”  559 U. S., at 139.  This is true because robbery that must overpower a victim’s will—even a feeble or weak-willed victim—necessarily involves a physical confrontation and struggle.  The altercation need not cause pain or injury or even be prolonged; it is the physical contest between the criminal and the victim that is itself “capable of causing physical pain or injury.”  Id., at 140.  Indeed, Johnson itself relied on a definition of “physical force” that specifically encompassed robbery: “ ‘[f]orce consisting in a physical act, esp. a violent act directed against a robbery victim.’ ”  Id., at 139 (quoting Black’s Law Dictionary 717 (9th ed. 2009); emphasis added).  Robbery thus has always been within the “ ‘category of violent, active crimes’ ” that Congress included in ACCA.  559 U. S., at 140.

															To get around Johnson, Stokeling cherry picks adjectives from parenthetical definitions in the opinion, insisting that the level of force must be “severe,” “extreme,” “furious,” or “vehement.”  These adjectives cannot bear the weight Stokeling would place on them.  They merely supported Johnson’s actual holding: that common-law battery does not require “force capable of causing physical pain or injury.”  Ibid.  Johnson did not purport to establish a force threshold so high as to exclude even robbery from ACCA’s scope.  Moreover, Stokeling ignores that the Court also defined “violence” as “ ‘unjust or improper force.’ ”  Ibid. (emphasis added).  As explained above, the common law similarly linked the terms “violence” and “force.”  Overcoming a victim’s resistance was per se violence against the victim, even if it ultimately caused minimal pain or injury.  See Russell, Crimes and Indictable Misdemeanors, at 68.

															C

															In the wake of Johnson, the Court has repeated its holding that “physical force” means “ ‘force capable of causing physical pain or injury.’ ” Sessions v. Dimaya, 584 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 19–20) (quoting Johnson, supra, at 140); see also Castleman, supra, at 173–174 (Scalia, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).

															Finding this definition difficult to square with his position, Stokeling urges us to adopt a new, heightened reading of physical force: force that is “reasonably expected to cause pain or injury.”  For the reasons already explained, that definition is inconsistent with the degree of force necessary to commit robbery at common law.  Moreover, the Court declined to adopt that standard in Johnson, even after considering similar language employed in a nearby statutory provision,

18 U. S. C. §922(g)(8)(C)(ii).  559 U. S., at 143.  The Court instead settled on “force capable of causing physical pain or injury.”  Id., at 140 (emphasis added).  “Capable” means “susceptible” or “having attributes . . . required for performance or accomplishment” or “having traits conducive to or features permitting.”  Webster’s Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary 203 (1983); see also Oxford American Dictionary and Thesaurus 180 (2d ed. 2009) (“having the ability or quality necessary to do”).  Johnson thus does not require any particular degree of likelihood or probability that the force used will cause physical pain or injury; only potentiality.

															Stokeling’s proposed standard would also prove exceedingly difficult to apply.  Evaluating the statistical probability that harm will befall a victim is not an administrable standard under our categorical approach.  Crimes can be committed in many different ways, and it would be difficult to assess whether a crime is categorically likely to harm the victim, especially when the statute at issue lacks fine-tuned gradations of “force.”  We decline to impose yet another indeterminable line-drawing exercise on the lower courts.

															Stokeling next contends that Castleman held that minor uses of force do not constitute “violent force,” but he misreads that opinion.  In Castleman, the Court noted that for purposes of a statute focused on domestic-violence misdemeanors, crimes involving relatively “minor uses of force” that might not “constitute ‘violence’ in the generic sense” could nevertheless qualify as predicate offenses.  572 U. S., at 165.  The Court thus had no need to decide more generally whether, under Johnson, conduct that leads to relatively minor forms of injury—such as “a cut, abrasion, [or] bruise”—“necessitate[s]” the use of “violent force.”  572 U. S., at 170.  Only Justice Scalia’s separate opinion addressed that question, and he concluded that force as small as “hitting, slapping, shoving, grabbing, pinching, biting, and hair pulling,” id., at 182 (alterations omitted), satisfied Johnson’s definition.  He reasoned that “[n]one of those actions bears any real resemblance to mere offensive touching, and all of them are capable of causing physical pain or injury.”  572 U. S., at 182.  This understanding of “physical force” is consistent with our holding today that force is “capable of causing physical injury” within the meaning of Johnson when it is sufficient to overcome a victim’s resistance.  Such force satisfies ACCA’s elements clause.

															III

															We now apply these principles to Florida’s robbery statute to determine whether it “has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person of another.”

18 U. S. C. §924(e)(2)(B)(i).  We conclude that it does.

															As explained, Florida law defines robbery as “the taking of money or other property . . . from the person or custody of another, . . . when in the course of the taking there is the use of force, violence, assault, or putting in fear.”  Fla. Stat. §812.13(1).  The Florida Supreme Court has made clear that this statute requires “resistance by the victim that is overcome by the physical force of the offender.”  Robinson v. State, 692 So. 2d 883, 886 (1997).  Mere “snatching of property from another” will not suffice.  Ibid.

															Several cases cited by the parties illustrate the application of the standard articulated in Robinson.  For example, a defendant who grabs the victim’s fingers and peels them back to steal money commits robbery in Florida.  Sanders v. State, 769 So. 2d 506, 507–508 (Fla. App. 2000).  But a defendant who merely snatches money from the victim’s hand and runs away has not committed robbery.  Goldsmith v. State, 573 So. 2d 445 (Fla. App. 1991).  Similarly, a defendant who steals a gold chain does not use “ ‘force,’ within the meaning of the robbery statute,” simply because the victim “fe[els] his fingers on the back of her neck.”  Walker v. State, 546 So. 2d 1165, 1166–1167 (Fla. App. 1989).  It is worth noting that, in 1999, Florida enacted a separate “sudden snatching” statute that proscribes this latter category of conduct; under that statute, it is unnecessary to show either that the defendant “used any amount of force beyond that effort necessary to obtain possession of the money or other property” or that “[t]here was any resistance by the victim to the offender.”  Fla. Stat. §812.131 (1999).

															Thus, the application of the categorical approach to the Florida robbery statute is straightforward.  Because the term “physical force” in ACCA encompasses the degree of force necessary to commit common-law robbery, and because Florida robbery requires that same degree of “force,” Florida robbery qualifies as an ACCA-predicate offense under the elements clause.  Cf. Descamps v. United States,

570 U. S. 254, 261 (2013) (“If the relevant statute has the same elemen[t],” “then the prior conviction can serve as an ACCA predicate”).

															IV

															In sum, “physical force,” or “force capable of causing physical pain or injury,” Johnson, 559 U. S., at 140, includes the amount of force necessary to overcome a victim’s resistance.  Robbery under Florida law corresponds to that level of force and therefore qualifies as a “violent felony” under ACCA’s elements clause.  For these reasons, we affirm the judgment of the Eleventh Circuit.

															

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
* The Government did not argue that Florida robbery should qualify under §924(e)(2)(B)(ii), presumably because robbery is not among the enumerated offenses and the Court held the “residual clause” unconstitutionally vague in Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___ (2015). 


