::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-071
::decision_cite:: 17-5639
::decision_name::  Chavez-Meza v. United States
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Kennedy
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–5639

															_________________

															ADAUCTO CHAVEZ-MEZA, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit

															[June 18, 2018]

															

															Justice Kennedy, with whom Justice Sotomayor and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															When the District Court reduced petitioner Adaucto Chavez-Meza’s sentence, it entered its order on a terse “AO–247” form.  An example of this form is attached as an Appendix, infra.  On the form order, the District Court checked a box next to preprinted language stating that it had “considered” Chavez-Meza’s motion for a reduced sentence and that it had “tak[en] into account the policy statement set forth at USSG §1B1.10 and the sentencing factors set forth in

18 U. S. C. §3553(a), to the extent that they are applicable.”  App. 106–107 (under seal).  The District Court checked another box indicating that Chavez-Meza’s motion was granted, and the court stated that it was reducing his sentence to 114 months.  Ibid.  But the District Court did not explain why it chose that particular sentence or why it had not sentenced Chavez-Meza to the bottom of his Guidelines range, as it had done at his original sentencing.  Under these circumstances, in my view the District Court’s order was insufficient to allow for meaningful appellate review, a conclusion that requires this respectful dissent.

															My disagreement with the majority is based on a serious problem—the difficulty for prisoners and appellate courts in ascertaining a district court’s reasons for imposing a sentence when the court fails to state those reasons on the record; yet, in the end, my disagreement turns on a small difference, for a remedy is simple and easily attained.  

															Just a slight expansion of the AO–247 form would answer the concerns expressed in this dissent in most cases, and likely in the instant one.  If the form were expanded to include just a few more categories covering the factors most often bearing on a trial court’s sentencing determination, the objections petitioner raises likely would be met.  The statute would be satisfied; district judges would have a helpful form that might well reduce the time for consideration of cases—and even if not would help ensure the full consideration which tends to result in uniformity and fairness; the Courts of Appeals, from the outset, would have far more assistance in determining whether appeals have merit; and this in turn would yield judicial efficiencies that the sentencing system must have to be effective and that Courts of Appeals must have to ensure that the relevant statute can be administered and applied in an efficient, fair, and uniform way.  The Court today, how- ever, gives its full approval to a conclusory order.  Its resulting holding is detrimental to the judicial system and to prisoners alike.

															The Sentencing Reform Act of 1984 authorizes a district court to reduce a prisoner’s sentence when he “has been sentenced to a term of imprisonment based on a sentencing range that has subsequently been lowered by the Sentencing Commission.”

18 U. S. C. §3582(c)(2).  Congress specified that district courts may reduce a defendant’s sentence only “after considering the factors set forth in section 3553(a) to the extent that they are applicable, if such a reduction is consistent with applicable policy statements issued by the Sentencing Commission.”  Ibid.

															In United States v. Taylor,

487 U. S. 326, 336 (1988), this Court addressed a statutory scheme that, like §3582(c)(2), required district courts to consider specific statutory factors when they exercised their discretion.  The Court held that “[w]here, as here, Congress has declared that a decision will be governed by consideration of particular factors, a district court must carefully consider those factors as applied to the particular case and, whatever its decision, clearly articulate their effect in order to permit meaningful appellate review.”  Id., at 336–337.

															Here, the form order fails to provide sufficient information either to give adequate and efficient instruction to the trial court or to permit meaningful appellate review.  The form order discloses no basis for determining why the District Court did not sentence Chavez-Meza to the bottom of his new Guidelines range, as it had when it imposed his original sentence.

															The Court points out that there is no presumption in favor of a proportional reduction when a judge reduces a prisoner’s sentence pursuant to §3582(c)(2).  Ante, at 6–7.  That is true, as far as it goes.  The issue here, however, is not whether district courts must grant proportional reductions; rather, the issue is what explanation should be required to permit meaningful review of a trial court’s resentencing order.

															The amount of necessary explanation might be different when a district court grants a proportional reduction—for example, when it sentences a defendant to the top or the bottom of his Guidelines range for both the initial and reduced sentence.  In that circumstance, in most in- stances, an appellate court properly can infer that the district court’s reasons were the same as those it gave when it imposed the initial sentence.  See Brief for National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers et al. as Amici Curiae 6–11 (explaining that district courts typically grant proportional reductions and that the Sentencing Commission often assumes they will do so).  Less explanation is necessary, not because proportional reductions are favored as a legal matter but because the initial sentencing proceeding provides a record from which an appellate court can make prompt and reliable inferences as to the reasons that informed the trial court’s decision to resentence a defendant to the same relative point on his amended Guidelines range.  Contrary to the Court’s suggestion, furthermore, one need not have an advanced degree in mathematics, much less a calculator, to draw this reasonable inference.  District courts, as a matter of routine, regularly grant proportional reductions; and it seems unlikely that they conduct intricate logarithmic computations before doing so.

															In contrast to a proportional reduction in a prisoner’s sentence, a nonproportional reduction suggests that the district court’s reasons for choosing a particular sentence might be different from those it gave when it imposed the sentence in the first instance.  Accordingly, a more specific explanation—but by no means an elaborate one—is necessary for an appellate court to determine why the district court chose a new point on the revised Guidelines range.

															 The Court’s analogy to Rita v. United States,

551 U. S. 338, 356 (2007), fails as well.  See ante, at 7–9.  In Rita, the District Court imposed the defendant’s sentence at a hearing.  The record made clear that “the sentencing judge listened to each argument,” “considered the supporting evidence,” and then determined that a 33-month sentence was “appropriate.”  551 U. S., at 357–358.  But here there was no hearing when the District Court reduced Chavez-Meza’s sentence in light of the amended Guidelines.  The District Court’s reasoning must be surmised from its terse, largely uninformative order.  At Chavez-Meza’s initial sentencing there was a hearing similar to the one in Rita.  But the fact that the District Court did not grant Chavez-Meza a proportional reduction when it later reconsidered his sentence limits the relevance of the initial sentencing proceeding.

															The District Court may well have had a legitimate reason for reducing Chavez-Meza’s sentence to 114 months instead of 108 months.  And even a brief explanation stating that reason likely would have sufficed, for district courts need not write at length each time they rule upon a §3582(c)(2) motion.  

															The Court is quite correct to point out that a trial judge “need only ‘set forth enough to satisfy the appellate court that he has considered the parties’ arguments and has a reasoned basis for exercising his own legal decisionmaking authority.’ ”  Ante, at 3 (quoting Rita, supra, at 356).  It is likely that even a checkbox form would suffice in most cases, provided the form lists enough of the common reasons so that an appellate court, in most cases, can easily ascertain why the district court chose a particular sentence.  Here, for example, the District Court simply could have added a sentence or two to the AO–247 form’s “Additional Comments” box.  Or, perhaps preferably, trial courts could use an expanded version of the AO–247 form that allows judges to indicate, even by checking a box, the reason or reasons for choosing a particular sentence.

															In this case, however, the District Court’s reasons remain a mystery.  The Court today speculates that the District Court sentenced Chavez-Meza to 114 months because he distributed a large quantity of methamphetamine.  Ante, at 8.  For its part, the Court of Appeals speculated that the reason might have been “an incident of misconduct while in prison.”  See 854 F. 3d 655, 660 (CA10 2017).  But there is no basis for these assumptions in the District Court’s order.  The sort of guesswork the Court relies upon in today’s decision is insufficient to provide meaningful appellate review of a district court’s exercise of its discretion under §3582(c)(2).  See Taylor, 487 U. S., at 342–343.

															According to the Court of Appeals, the relevant provisions of the Sentencing Reform Act must be read to allow a trial court not to give or state any reasons at all for a resentencing order.  854 F. 3d, at 658.  This was error.  The Court of Appeals reached its conclusion by comparing the provisions that relate to original sentencing—§3553(c)—with the provisions that pertain to the resentencing process—§3582(c)(2).  It reasoned that, because the former has an express requirement to state reasons while the latter does not, the statutory structure eliminates any requirement for reasons upon resentencing.  The Court of Appeals’ analysis, however, ignores the scope of the statutory text in §3553(c).  That section pertains to a procedure that is a full-scale adversary proceeding, where the defendant and counsel are present.  As part of that procedure, the statute states: “The court, at the time of sentencing, shall state in open court the reasons for its imposition of the particular sentence.”  §3553(c).

															The statute does not require a full-scale adversary proceeding when resentencing is being considered after a Guidelines reduction.  But it is incorrect to conclude that the absence of all those requirements forecloses the necessity to make a record that allows an appellate court to exercise meaningful review of the reasons for the resentencing order.  This conclusion follows from this Court’s decision in Taylor, holding that courts must “clearly articulate” their reasoning “in order to permit meaningful appellate review,” even without any specific statutory command.  487 U. S., at 336–337.  So the fact that Congress adopted a detailed explanatory requirement in another part of the statute does not displace Taylor’s background rule that district courts must provide enough reasoning for appellate courts to review their decisions when they exercise discretion under a statute like §3582(c)(2).

															The Court quite correctly rejects the Government’s invitation to adopt the Court of Appeals’ interpretation.  See ante, at 5–6.  The Court’s ensuing analysis, however, is, in my respectful view, still incorrect.  On the one hand, the Court holds that appellate courts may determine on a case-by-case basis whether a form order like the one here provides enough explanation.  See ante, at 6, 9–10.  Thus, any prisoner can appeal and argue that the order was insufficient in his case.  On the other hand, the Court does not impose any serious requirement that a district court state its reasons on the front end—that is, before the appeal, when the district court rules on the §3582(c)(2) motion.  Thus, in cases like this one, appeals will often be based on speculation that requires the prisoner, the Government, and the Court of Appeals to hypothesize the potential reasons for the prisoner’s sentence when a reduction is weighed and considered.

															This is an unwise allocation of judicial resources.  District courts, to state the obvious, are best positioned to explain their reasons for imposing a particular sentence.  Under the majority’s opinion, however, appellate courts will often lack clarity as to a district court’s reasoning and will be forced to either speculate (as the Court does today) based on their own view of the record, or remand the case for further explanation, likely followed by another appeal.  What could have taken a sentence or two at the front end now can, and likely will, produce dozens of pages of briefs, bench memoranda, orders, and judicial opinions as the case makes its way first to the appellate court, then back down to the trial court and perhaps back to the appellate court again.

															A better, more efficient rule would require trial courts in cases like this one to provide their reasons in their initial decisions either by giving a short statement or checking additional boxes.  We must be conscious of the fact that retroactive amendments to the Guidelines can result in thousands of resentencings.  That is all the more reason the inefficiencies resulting from today’s decision ought to be avoided.  And given the uncertainty that will ensue from today’s decision, district courts would be wise to say more than the court said in this case, even in the absence of a holding requiring it to do so on the specific facts at issue here.

															For these reasons, I respectfully dissent.

															 

															APPENDIX

															

															

															 

															

															

															
													
