::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-005
::decision_cite:: 17-647
::decision_name::  Knick v. Township of Scott
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–647

															_________________

															ROSE MARY KNICK, PETITIONER v. TOWNSHIP
OF SCOTT, PENNSYLVANIA, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the third circuit

															[June 21, 2019]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Ginsburg,
Justice Breyer, and Justice Sotomayor join, dissenting.

															Today, the Court formally overrules
Williamson County Regional Planning Comm’n v.
Hamilton Bank of Johnson City, 473 U.S.
172 (1985). But its decision rejects far more than that single
case. Williamson County was rooted in an understanding of
the Fifth Amendment’s Takings Clause stretching back to the
late 1800s. On that view, a government could take property so long
as it provided a reliable mechanism to pay just compensation, even
if the payment came after the fact. No longer. The majority today
holds, in conflict with precedent after precedent, that a
government violates the Constitution whenever it takes property
without advance compensation—no matter how good its
commitment to pay. That conclusion has no basis in the Takings
Clause. Its consequence is to channel a mass of quintessentially
local cases involving complex state-law issues into federal courts.
And it transgresses all usual principles of stare decisis. I
respectfully dissent.

															I

															Begin with the basics—the meaning of the
Takings Clause. The right that Clause confers is not to be free
from government takings of property for public purposes. Instead,
the right is to be free from those takings when the government
fails to provide “just compensation.” In other words,
the government can take private property for public
purposes, so long as it fairly pays the property owner. That
precept, which the majority does not contest, comes straight out of
the constitutional text: “[P]rivate property [shall not] be
taken for public use, without just compensation.” Amdt. 5.
“As its language indicates, [the Takings Clause] does not
prohibit the taking of private property, but instead places a
condition on the exercise of that power.” First English
Evangelical Lutheran Church of Glendale v. County of Los
Angeles, 482
U.S. 304, 314 (1987). And that constitutional choice accords
with ancient principles about what governments do. The eminent
domain power—the capacity to “take private property for
public uses”—is an integral “attribute of
sovereignty.” Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98 U.S.
403, 406 (1879); see Kohl v. United States,
91 U.S.
367, 371 (1876) (The power is “essential to [the
Government’s] independent existence and perpetuity”).
Small surprise, then, that the Constitution does not prohibit
takings for public purposes, but only requires the government to
pay fair value.

															In that way, the Takings Clause is unique among
the Bill of Rights’ guarantees. It is, for example, unlike
the Fourth Amendment’s protection against excessive
force—which the majority mistakenly proposes as an analogy.
See ante, at 8. Suppose a law enforcement officer uses
excessive force and the victim recovers damages for his injuries.
Did a constitutional violation occur? Of course. The Constitution
prohibits what the officer did; the payment of damages merely
remedied the constitutional wrong. But the Takings Clause is
different because it does not prohibit takings; to the contrary, it
permits them provided the government gives just compensation. So
when the government “takes and pays,” it is not
violating the Constitution at all. Put another way, a Takings
Clause violation has two necessary elements. First, the government
must take the property. Second, it must deny the property owner
just compensation. See Horne v. Department of
Agriculture, 569 U.S.
513, 525–526 (2013) (“[A] Fifth Amendment claim is
premature until it is clear that the Government has both taken
property and denied just compensation” (emphasis in
original)). If the government has not done both, no constitutional
violation has happened. All this is well-trod ground. See,
e.g., United States v. Jones, 109 U.S.
513, 518 (1883); Albert Hanson Lumber Co. v. United
States, 261 U.S.
581, 586 (1923). Even the majority (despite its faulty analogy)
does not contest it.

															Similarly well-settled—until the
majority’s opinion today—was the answer to a follow-on
question: At what point has the government denied a property owner
just compensation, so as to complete a Fifth Amendment violation?
For over a hundred years, this Court held that advance or
contemporaneous payment was not required, so long as the government
had established reliable procedures for an owner to later obtain
just compensation (including interest for any time elapsed). The
rule got its start in Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas
R. Co., 135 U.S.
641 (1890), where the Tribe argued that a federal statute
authorizing condemnation of its property violated the Fifth
Amendment because the law did not require advance payment. The
Court disagreed. It held that the Takings Clause “does not
provide or require that compensation shall be actually paid in
advance of the occupancy of the land to be taken” so long as
the government made available to the owner “reasonable,
certain and adequate provision for obtaining compensation”
afterward. Id., at 659. Decade after decade, the Court
repeated that principle.[1] As
another case put the point: The Takings Clause does not demand
“that compensation should be made previous to the
taking” so long as “adequate means [are] provided for a
reasonably just and prompt ascertainment and payment of the
compensation.” Crozier v. Krupp A. G.,
224 U.S.
290, 306 (1912). And the Court also made clear that a statute
creating a right of action against the responsible government
entity generally qualified as a constitutionally adequate
compensatory mechanism. See, e.g., Williams v.
Parker, 188 U.S.
491, 502 (1903); Yearsley v. W. A. Ross Constr.
Co., 309 U.S.
18, 20–21 (1940).[2]

															Williamson County followed from those
decisions as night the day. The case began when a local planning
commission rejected a property owner’s development proposal.
The owner chose not to seek compensation through the procedure the
State had created—an “inverse condemnation”
action against the commission. Instead, the owner sued in federal
court alleging a Takings Clause violation under 42
U. S. C. §1983. Consistent with the century’s
worth of precedent I have recounted above, the Court found that no
Fifth Amendment violation had yet occurred. See 473 U. S., at
195. The Court first recognized that “[t]he Fifth Amendment
does not proscribe the taking of property; it proscribes taking
without just compensation.” Id., at 194. Next, the
Court stated (citing no fewer than five precedents) that the
Amendment does not demand that “compensation be paid in
advance of, or contemporaneously with, the taking.”
Ibid. “[A]ll that is required,” the Court
continued, is that the State have provided “a
‘reasonable, certain and adequate provision for obtaining
compensation.’ ” Ibid. (quoting Cherokee
Nation, 135 U. S., at 659). Here, the State had done so:
Nothing suggested that the inverse condemnation procedure was
inadequate. 473 U. S., at 196–197. So the property
owner’s claim was “not yet ripe”: The owner could
not “claim a violation of the [Takings] Clause until it [had]
used the procedure and been denied.” Id., at
194–195.

															So contrary to the majority’s portrayal,
Williamson County did not result from some inexplicable
confusion about “how the Takings Clause works.”
Ante, at 8. Far from it. Williamson County built on a
long line of decisions addressing the elements of a Takings Clause
violation. The Court there said only two things remotely new.
First, the Court found that the State’s inverse condemnation
procedure qualified as a “reasonable, certain and
adequate” procedure. But no one in this case disputes
anything to do with that conclusion—including that the
equivalent Pennsylvania procedure here is similarly adequate.
Second, the Court held that a §1983 suit could not be brought
until a property owner had unsuccessfully invoked the State’s
procedure for obtaining payment. But that was a direct function of
the Court’s prior holdings. Everyone agrees that a §1983
suit cannot be brought before a constitutional violation has
occurred. And according to the Court’s repeated decisions, a
Takings Clause violation does not occur until an owner has used the
government’s procedures and failed to obtain just
compensation. All that Williamson County did was to put the
period on an already-completed sentence about when a takings claim
arises.[3]

															Today’s decision thus overthrows the
Court’s long-settled view of the Takings Clause. The majority
declares, as against a mountain of precedent, that a government
taking private property for public purposes must pay compensation
at that moment or in advance. See ante, at 6–7. If the
government fails to do so, a constitutional violation has occurred,
regardless of whether “reasonable, certain and
adequate” compensatory mechanisms exist. Cherokee
Nation, 135 U. S., at 659. And regardless of how many
times this Court has said the opposite before. Under cover of
overruling “only” a single decision, today’s
opinion smashes a hundred-plus years of legal rulings to
smithereens.

															II

															So how does the majority defend taking down
Williamson County and its many precursors? Its decision
rests on four ideas: a comparison between takings claims and other
constitutional claims, a resort to the Takings Clause’s text,
and theories about two lines of this Court’s precedent. All
are misguided. The majority uses the term “shaky
foundations.” Ante, at 21. It knows whereof it
speaks.

															The first crack comes from the repeated
assertion (already encountered in the majority’s Fourth
Amendment analogy, see supra, at 2) that Williamson
County treats takings claims worse than other claims founded in
the Bill of Rights. See ante, at 6, 8, 11–12, 20. That
is not so. The distinctive aspects of litigating a takings claim
merely reflect the distinctive aspects of the constitutional right.
Once again, a Fourth Amendment claim arises at the moment a police
officer uses excessive force, because the Constitution prohibits
that thing and that thing only. (Similarly, for the
majority’s other analogies, a bank robber commits his offense
when he robs a bank and a tortfeasor when he acts
negligently—because that conduct, and it alone, is what the
law forbids.) Or to make the same point a bit differently, even if
a government could compensate the victim in advance—as the
majority requires here—the victim would still suffer
constitutional injury when the force is used. But none of that is
true of Takings Clause violations. That kind of infringement, as
explained, is complete only after two things occur: (1) the
government takes property, and (2) it fails to pay just
compensation. See supra, at 2–3. All Williamson
County and its precursors do is recognize that fact, by saying
that a constitutional claim (and thus a §1983 suit) arises
only after the second condition is met—when the property
owner comes away from the government’s compensatory procedure
empty-handed. That is to treat the Takings Clause exactly as its
dual elements require—and because that is so, neither worse
nor better than any other right.

															Second, the majority contends that its rule
follows from the constitutional text, because the Takings Clause
does not say “[n]or shall private property be taken for
public use, without an available procedure that will result in
compensation.” Ante, at 6. There is a reason the
majority devotes only a few sentences to that argument. Because
here’s another thing the text does not say: “Nor shall
private property be taken for public use, without advance or
contemporaneous payment of just compensation, notwithstanding
ordinary procedures.” In other words, the text no more states
the majority’s rule than it does Williamson
County’s (and its precursors’). As constitutional
text often is, the Takings Clause is spare. It says that a
government taking property must pay just compensation—but
does not say through exactly what mechanism or at exactly what
time. That was left to be worked out, consistent with the
Clause’s (minimal) text and purpose. And from 1890 until
today, this Court worked it out Williamson County’s
way, rather than the majority’s. See supra, at
3–4. Under our caselaw, a government could use reliable
post-taking compensatory mechanisms (with payment calculated from
the taking) without violating the Takings Clause.

															Third, the majority tries to explain away that
mass of precedent, with a theory so, well, inventive that it
appears in neither the petitioner’s nor her 15-plus
amici’s briefs. Don’t read the decisions
“too broadly,” the majority says. Ante, at 16.
Yes, the Court in each rejected a takings claim, instructing the
property owner to avail herself instead of a government-created
compensatory mechanism. But all the Court meant (the majority says)
was that the plaintiffs had sought the wrong kind of relief: They
could not get injunctions because the available compensatory
procedures gave an adequate remedy at law. The Court still believed
(so says the majority) that the cases involved constitutional
violations. Or said otherwise (again, according to the majority),
the Court still understood the Takings Clause to prohibit delayed
payment.

															Points for creativity, but that is just not what
the decisions say. Most of the cases involved requests for
injunctions, but the equity/law distinction played little or no
role in our analyses. Instead, the decisions addressed directly
what the Takings Clause requires (or not). And as already shown,
supra, at 3–4, they held that the Clause does not
demand advance payment. Beginning again at the beginning,
Cherokee Nation decided that the Takings Clause “does
not provide or require that compensation shall be actually paid in
advance.” 135 U. S., at 659. In Backus v. Fort
Street Union Depot Co., 169 U.S.
557, 567–568 (1898), the Court declared that a property
owner had no “constitutional right to have the amount of his
compensation finally determined and paid before yielding
possession.” By the time of Williams v. Parker,
188 U. S., at 502, the Court could state that “it is
settled by repeated decisions” that the Constitution allows
the taking of property “prior to any payment.”
Similarly, in Joslin Mfg. Co. v. Providence,
262 U.S.
668, 677 (1923), the Court noted that “[i]t has long been
settled that the taking of property . . . need not be
accompanied or preceded by payment, but that the requirement of
just compensation is satisfied when” there is a pledge of
“reasonably prompt ascertainment and payment.” In
Hurley v. Kincaid, 285 U.S.
95, 104 (1932), the Court repeated that the “ Fifth
Amendment does not entitle [a property owner] to be paid in advance
of the taking.” I could go on—there are eighty more
years to cover, and more decisions in the early years too—but
by now you probably get the idea.

															Well, just one more especially good
demonstration. In Yearsley v. W. A. Ross Constr. Co.,
309 U.S.
18 (1940), the plaintiffs sought money damages for an alleged
Takings Clause violation. For that reason, the Court’s theory
about suits seeking injunctions has no possible application. Still,
the Court rejected the claim: The different remedy requested made
no difference in the result. And yet more important: In refusing to
find a Takings Clause violation, the Court used the exact same
reasoning as it had in all the cases requesting injunctions. Once
again, the Court did not focus on the nature of the relief sought.
It simply explained that the government had provided a procedure
for obtaining post-taking compensation—and that was enough.
“The Fifth Amendment does not entitle him [the owner] to be
paid in advance of the taking,” held the Court, quoting the
last injunction case described above. Id., at 21 (quoting
Hurley, 285 U. S., at 104; brackets in original).
Because the government had set up an adequate compensatory
mechanism, the taking was “within [the government’s]
constitutional power.” 309 U. S., at 22. Once again, the
opposite of what the majority pronounces today.[4]

															Fourth and finally, the majority lays claim to
another line of decisions—involving the Tucker Act—but
with no greater success. The Tucker Act waives the Federal
Government’s sovereign immunity and grants the Court of
Federal Claims jurisdiction over suits seeking compensation for
takings. See 28 U. S. C. §1491(a)(1). According to
the majority, this Court’s cases establish that such an
action “is a claim for a violation of the Fifth
Amendment”—that is, for a constitutional offense that
has already happened because of the absence of advance payment.
Ante, at 19, n. 7 (emphasis in original); see
ante, at 13. But again, the precedents say the opposite. The
Tucker Act is the Federal Government’s equivalent of a
State’s inverse condemnation procedure, by which a property
owner can obtain just compensation. The former, no less than the
latter, forestalls any constitutional violation by ensuring
that an owner gets full and fair payment for a taking. The Court,
for example, stated in United States v. Riverside Bayview
Homes, Inc., 474 U.S.
121, 128 (1985), that “so long as [post-taking Tucker
Act] compensation is available for those whose property is in fact
taken, the governmental action is not unconstitutional.”
Similarly, we held in Preseault v. ICC, 494 U.S.
1, 4–5 (1990) that when “compensation is available
to [property owners] under the Tucker Act[,] the requirements of
the Fifth Amendment are satisfied.” And again, in
Ruckelshaus v. Monsanto Co., 467
U.S. 986, 1016 (1984) we rejected a takings claim because the
plaintiff could “seek just compensation under the Tucker
Act” and “[t]he Fifth Amendment does not require that
compensation precede the taking.” All those decisions (and
there are others) rested on the premise, merely reiterated in
Williamson County, that the “availability of a suit
for compensation against the sovereign will defeat a contention
that the action is unconstitutional as a violation of the Fifth
Amendment.” Larson v. Domestic and Foreign Commerce
Corp., 337 U.S.
682, 697, n. 18 (1949).[5]

															To the extent it deals with these cases (mostly,
it just ignores them), the majority says only that they (like
Williamson County) were “confused” or wrong. See
ante, at 13, 19, n. 7. But maybe the majority should
take the hint: When a theory requires declaring precedent after
precedent after precedent wrong, that’s a sign the theory
itself may be wrong. The majority’s theory is just that.

															III

															And not only wrong on prior law. The
majority’s overruling of Williamson County will have
two damaging consequences. It will inevitably turn even
well-meaning government officials into lawbreakers. And it will
subvert important principles of judicial federalism.

															To begin with, today’s decision means that
government regulators will often have no way to avoid violating the
Constitution. There are a “nearly infinite variety of
ways” for regulations to “affect property
interests.” Arkansas Game and Fish Comm’n v.
United States, 568 U.S.
23, 31 (2012). And under modern takings law, there is “no
magic formula” to determine “whether a given government
interference with property is a taking.” Ibid. For
that reason, a government actor usually cannot know in advance
whether implementing a regulatory program will effect a taking,
much less of whose property. Until today, such an official could do
his work without fear of wrongdoing, in any jurisdiction that had
set up a reliable means for property owners to obtain compensation.
Even if some regulatory action turned out to take someone’s
property, the official would not have violated the Constitution.
But no longer. Now, when a government undertakes land-use
regulation (and what government doesn’t?), the responsible
employees will almost inescapably become constitutional
malefactors. That is not a fair position in which to place persons
carrying out their governmental duties.

															Still more important, the majority’s
ruling channels to federal courts a (potentially massive) set of
cases that more properly belongs, at least in the first instance,
in state courts—where Williamson County put them. The
regulation of land use, this Court has stated, is “perhaps
the quintessential state activity.” FERC v.
Mississippi, 456 U.S.
742, 768, n. 30 (1982). And a claim that a land-use
regulation violates the Takings Clause usually turns on state-law
issues. In that respect, takings claims have little in common with
other constitutional challenges. The question in takings cases is
not merely whether a given state action meets federal
constitutional standards. Before those standards can come into
play, a court must typically decide whether, under state law, the
plaintiff has a property interest in the thing regulated. See
Phillips v. Washington Legal Foundation, 524 U.S.
156, 164 (1998); see also Sterk, The Demise of Federal Takings
Litigation, 48 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 251, 288 (2006) (“[I]f
background state law did not recognize or create property in the
first instance, then a subsequent state action cannot take
property”). Often those questions—how does pre-existing
state law define the property right?; what interests does that law
grant?; and conversely what interests does it deny?—are
nuanced and complicated. And not a one of them is familiar to
federal courts.

															This case highlights the difficulty. The
ultimate constitutional question here is: Did Scott
Township’s cemetery ordinance “go[ ] too
far” (in Justice Holmes’s phrase), so as to effect a
taking of Rose Mary Knick’s property? Pennsylvania Coal
Co. v. Mahon, 260 U.S.
393, 415 (1922). But to answer that question, it is first
necessary to address an issue about background state law. In the
Township’s view, the ordinance did little more than codify
Pennsylvania common law, which (the Township says) has long
required property owners to make land containing human remains open
to the public. See Brief for Respondents 48; Brief for Cemetery Law
Scholars as Amici Curiae 6–26. If the Township is
right on that state-law question, Knick’s constitutional
claim will fail: The ordinance, on that account, didn’t go
far at all. But Knick contends that no common law rule of that kind
exists in Pennsylvania. See Reply Brief 22. And if she is right,
her takings claim may yet have legs. But is she? Or is the
Township? I confess: I don’t know. Nor, I would venture, do
my colleagues on the federal bench. But under today’s
decision, it will be the Federal District Court for the Middle
District of Pennsylvania that will have to resolve this question of
local cemetery law.

															And if the majority thinks this case is an
outlier, it’s dead wrong; indeed, this case will be easier
than many. Take Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal
Council, 505 U.S.
1003 (1992). There, this Court held that a South Carolina ban
on development of beachfront property worked a taking of the
plaintiff’s land—unless the State’s nuisance law
already prohibited such development. See id., at
1027–1030. The Court then—quite sensibly—remanded
the case to the South Carolina Supreme Court to resolve that
question. See id., at 1031–1032. (And while spotting
the nuisance issue, the Court may have overlooked other state-law
constraints on development. In some States, for example, the public
trust doctrine or public prescriptive easements limit the
development of beachfront land. See Sterk, The Federalist Dimension
of Regulatory Takings Jurisprudence, 114 Yale L. J. 203, 227
(2004).) Or consider Stop the Beach Renourishment, Inc. v.
Florida Dept. of Environmental Protection, 560 U.S.
702 (2010). The federal constitutional issue there was whether
a decision of the Florida Supreme Court relating to beachfront
property constituted a taking. To resolve that issue, though, the
Court first had to address whether, under pre-existing Florida
property law, “littoral-property owners had rights to future
accretions and contact with the water superior to the State’s
right to fill in its submerged land.” Id., at 730. The
Court bit the bullet and decided that issue itself, as it sometimes
has to (though thankfully with the benefit of a state high
court’s reasoning). But there is no such necessity
here—and no excuse for making complex state-law issues part
of the daily diet of federal district courts.

															State courts are—or at any rate, are
supposed to be—the “ultimate expositors of state
law.” Mullaney v. Wilbur, 421 U.S.
684, 691 (1975). The corollary is that federal courts should
refrain whenever possible from deciding novel or difficult
state-law questions. That stance, as this Court has long
understood, respects the “rightful independence of the state
governments,” “avoid[s] needless friction with state
policies,” and promotes “harmonious relation[s] between
state and federal authority.” Railroad Comm’n of
Tex. v. Pullman Co., 312 U.S.
496, 500–501 (1941). For that reason, this Court has
promoted practices of certification and abstention to put difficult
state-law issues in state judges’ hands. See, e.g.,
Arizonans for Official English v. Arizona, 520 U.S.
43, 77 (1997) (encouraging certification of “novel or
unsettled questions of state law” to “hel[p] build a
cooperative judicial federalism”); Louisiana Power &
Light Co. v. City of Thibodaux, 360 U.S.
25, 28 (1959) (approving federal-court abstention in an eminent
domain proceeding because such cases “turn on legislation
with much local variation interpreted in local settings”). We
may as well not have bothered. Today’s decision sends a flood
of complex state-law issues to federal courts. It makes federal
courts a principal player in local and state land-use disputes. It
betrays judicial federalism.

															IV

															Everything said above aside, Williamson
County should stay on the books because of stare
decisis. Adherence to precedent is “a foundation stone of
the rule of law.” Michigan v. Bay Mills Indian
Community, 572 U.S. 782, 798 (2014). “[I]t promotes the
evenhanded, predictable, and consistent development of legal
principles, fosters reliance on judicial decisions, and contributes
to the actual and perceived integrity of the judicial
process.” Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U.S.
808, 827 (1991). Stare decisis, of course, is “not
an inexorable command.” Id., at 828. But it is not
enough that five Justices believe a precedent wrong. Reversing
course demands a “special justification—over and above
the belief that the precedent was wrongly decided.”
Kimble v. Marvel Entertainment, LLC, 576 U. S.
___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 8) (internal quotation marks
omitted). The majority offers no reason that qualifies.

															In its only real stab at a special
justification, the major- ity focuses on what it calls the
“San Remo preclusion trap.” Ante, at 2.
As the majority notes, this Court held in a post-Williamson
County decision interpreting the full faith and credit statute,
28 U. S. C. §1738, that a state court’s
resolution of an inverse condemnation proceeding has preclusive
effect in a later federal suit. See San Remo Hotel, L. P. v.
City and County of San Francisco, 545
U.S. 323 (2005); ante, at 1–2, 5–6, 22. The
interaction between San Remo and Williamson County
means that “many takings plaintiffs never have the
opportunity to litigate in a federal forum.” Ante, at
22. According to the majority, that unanticipated result makes
Williamson County itself “unworkable.”
Ibid.

															But in highlighting the preclusion concern, the
majority only adds to the case for respecting stare
decisis—because that issue can always be addressed by
Congress. When “correction can be had by legislation,”
Justice Brandeis once stated, the Court should let stand even
“error[s on] matter[s] of serious concern.” Square D
Co. v. Niagara Frontier Tariff Bureau, Inc., 476 U.S.
409, 424 (1986) (quoting Burnet v. Coronado Oil &
Gas Co., 285 U.S.
393, 406 (1932) (dissenting)). Or otherwise said, stare
decisis then “carries enhanced force.”
Kimble, 576 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8); see
South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., 585 U. S. ___,
___ (2018) (Roberts, C. J., dissenting) (slip op., at 2) (The
stare decisis “bar is even higher” when Congress
“can, if it wishes, override this Court’s decisions
with contrary legislation”). Here, Congress can reverse the
San Remo preclusion rule any time it wants, and thus give
property owners an opportunity—after a state-court
proceeding—to litigate in federal court. The San Remo
decision, as noted above, interpreted the federal full faith and
credit statute; Congress need only add a provision to that law to
flip the Court’s result. In fact, Congress has already
considered proposals responding to San Remo—though so
far to no avail. See Brief for Congressman Steve King et al. as
Amici Curiae 7. Following this Court’s normal rules of
practice means leaving the San Remo “ball[ in]
Congress’s court,” so that branch can decide whether to
pick it up. Kimble, 576 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at
8).[6]

															And the majority has no other special
justification. It says Williamson County did not create
“reliance interests.” Ante, at 23. But even if
so, those interests are a plus-factor in the doctrine; when
they exist, stare decisis becomes
“superpowered.” Kimble, 576 U. S., at ___
(slip op., at 10); Payne, 501 U. S., at 828 (Stare
decisis concerns are “at their acme” when
“reliance interests are involved”). The absence of
reliance is not itself a reason for overruling a decision. Next,
the majority says that the “justification for [Williamson
County’s] state-litigation requirement” has
“evolve[d].” Ante, at 22. But to start with, it
has not. The original rationale—in the majority’s
words, that the requirement “is an element of a takings
claim,” ante, at 22—has held strong for 35 years
(including in the cases the majority cites), and is the same one I
rely on today. See, e.g., Horne, 569 U. S., at
525–526 (quoting Williamson County’s rationale);
Suitum v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency, 520 U.S.
725, 734 (1997) (same); supra, at 2–3. And anyway,
“evolution” in the way a decision is described has
never been a ground for abandoning stare decisis. Here, the
majority’s only citation is to last Term’s decision
overruling a 40-year-old precedent. See ante, at 22 (citing
Janus v. State, County, and Municipal Employees, 585
U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 23)). If that is the way
the majority means to proceed—relying on one subversion of
stare decisis to support another—we may as well not
have principles about precedents at all.

															What is left is simply the majority’s view
that Williamson County was wrong. The majority repurposes
all its merits arguments—all its claims that Williamson
County was “ill founded”—to justify its
overruling. Ante, at 20–21. But the entire idea of
stare decisis is that judges do not get to reverse a
decision just because they never liked it in the first instance.
Once again, they need a reason other than the idea
“that the precedent was wrongly decided.”
Halliburton Co. v. Erica P. John Fund, Inc., 573 U.S.
258, 266 (2014); see supra, at 16. For it is hard to
overstate the value, in a country like ours, of stability in the
law.

															Just last month, when the Court overturned
another longstanding precedent, Justice Breyer penned a dissent.
See Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal. v. Hyatt, 587
U. S. ___, ___ (2019). He wrote of the dangers of reversing
legal course “only because five Members of a later
Court” decide that an earlier ruling was incorrect.
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 13). He concluded:
“Today’s decision can only cause one to wonder which
cases the Court will overrule next.” Ibid. Well, that
didn’t take long. Now one may wonder yet again.

Notes
1
 See also, e.g.,
Yearsley v. W. A. Ross Constr. Co., 309 U.S.
18, 21–22 (1940); Hurley v. Kincaid,
285 U.S.
95, 104 (1932); Dohany v. Rogers, 281 U.S.
362, 365 (1930); Joslin Mfg. Co. v. Providence,
262 U.S.
668, 677 (1923); Albert Hanson Lumber Co. v. United
States, 261 U.S.
581, 587 (1923); Hayes v. Port of Seattle,
251 U.S.
233, 238 (1920); Bragg v. Weaver, 251 U.S.
57, 62 (1919); Madisonville Traction Co. v. Saint
Bernard Mining Co., 196 U.S.
239, 251–252 (1905); Williams v. Parker,
188 U.S.
491, 502 (1903); Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot
Co., 169 U.S.
557, 568 (1898); Sweet v. Rechel, 159 U.S.
380, 400–402 (1895).
2
 In many of these cases,
the Court held as well that if payment occurs later, it must
include interest. See, e.g., id., at 407; Albert
Hanson Lumber Co., 261 U. S., at 586. That requirement
flows from the constitutional demand for “just”
compensation: As one of the early cases explained, the property
owner must be placed “in as good position pecuniarily as he
would have been if his property had not been taken.”
Ibid.
3
 Contrary to the
majority’s description, see ante, at 15, and
n. 6, the respondents have exactly this view of Williamson
County (and of the cases preceding it). The respondents discuss
(as I do, see supra, at 3–4) the “long line of
precedent” holding that “the availability of a
reason-able, certain, and adequate inverse-condemnation procedure
fulfills the duty” of a government to pay just compensation
for a taking. Brief for Respondents 22–23. The respondents
then conclude (again, as I do, see supra, at 4–6) that
Williamson County “sound[ly]” and
“straightforwardly applied that precedent to hold that a
property owner who forgoes an available and adequate
inverse-condemnation remedy has not been deprived of any
constitutional right and thus cannot proceed under Section
1983.” Brief for Respondents 22. (Again contra the majority,
the respondents’ only theory of §1983 is the one
everyone agrees with—that a §1983 suit cannot be brought
before a constitu-tional violation has occurred.) So while I
appreciate the compliment, I cannot claim to argue anything novel
or “dar[ing]” here. Ante, at 15. My argument is
the same as the respondents’, which is the same as
Williamson County’s, which is the same as all the
prior precedents’.
4
 The majority’s
supposed best case to the contrary, First English Evangelical
Lutheran Church of Glendale v. County of Los Angeles,
482 U.S.
304 (1987), is not so good, as is apparent from its express
statement that it accords with Williamson County. See 482
U. S., at 320, n. 10. In First English, the Court
held that a property owner was entitled to compensation for the
temporary loss of his property, occurring while a (later-repealed)
regulation was in effect. See id., at 321. The Court made
clear that a government’s duty to compensate for a
taking—including a temporary taking—arises from the
Fifth Amendment, as of course it does. See id., at 315. But
the Court nowhere suggested that a Fifth Amendment violation
happens even before a government denies the required compensation.
(You will scan the majority’s description of First
English in vain for a quote to that effect—because no
such quote exists. See ante, at 9–11.) To the
contrary, the Court went out of its way to recognize the
Williamson County principle that “no constitutional
violation occurs until just compensation has been denied.”
482 U. S., at 320, n. 10 (internal quotation marks
omitted).
5
 Jacobs v.
United States, 290 U.S.
13 (1933), the Tucker Act case the majority cites to support
its argument, says nothing different. The majority twice notes
Jacobs’ statement that a Tucker Act claim
“rest[s] upon the Fifth Amendment.” Ante, at
7–8 (quoting 290 U. S., at 16). And so it does, because
the compensatory obligation that the Tucker Act vindicates arises
from—or “rests upon”—the Fifth Amendment.
But that is a far cry from saying, as the majority does, that
theGovernment has already violated the Fifth Amendment when the
Tucker Act claim is brought—before the Government has denied
fair compensation.
6
 Confronted with that
point, the majority shifts ground. It notes that even if Congress
eliminated the San Remo rule, takings plaintiffs would still
have to comply with Williamson County’s
“unjustified” demand that they bring suit in state
court first. See ante, at 22. But that argument does not
even purport to state a special justification. It merely reiterates
the majority’s view on the merits.


