::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-004
::decision_cite:: 17-7505
::decision_name::  Madison v. Alabama
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–7505

															_________________

															VERNON MADISON, PETITIONER v. ALABAMA

															on writ of certiorari to the circuit court of alabama, mobile county

															[February 27, 2019]

															

															Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.

															The
 
Eighth Amendment, this Court has held, prohibits the execution of a prisoner whose mental illness prevents him from “rational[ly] understanding” why the State seeks to impose that punishment.  Panetti v. Quarterman,

551 U.S. 930, 959 (2007).  In this case, Vernon Madison argued that his memory loss and dementia entitled him to a stay of execution, but an Alabama court denied the relief.  We now address two questions relating to the
 
Eighth Amendment’s bar, disputed below but not in this Court.  First, does the
 
Eighth Amendment forbid execution whenever a prisoner shows that a mental disorder has left him without any memory of committing his crime?  We (and, now, the parties) think not, because a person lacking such a memory may still be able to form a rational understanding of the reasons for his death sentence.  Second, does the
 
Eighth Amendment apply similarly to a prisoner suffering from dementia as to one experiencing psychotic delusions?  We (and, now, the parties) think so, because either condition may—or, then again, may not—impede the requisite comprehension of his punishment.  The only issue left, on which the parties still disagree, is what those rulings mean for Madison’s own execution.  We direct that issue to the state court for further consideration in light of this opinion.

															I

															A

															This Court decided in Ford v. Wainwright,

477 U.S. 399 (1986), that the
 
Eighth Amendment’s ban on cruel and unusual punishments precludes executing a prisoner who has “lost his sanity” after sentencing.  Id., at 406.  While on death row, Alvin Ford was beset by “pervasive delusion[s]” associated with “[p]aranoid [s]chizophrenia.”  Id., at 402–403.  Surveying both the common law and state statutes, the Court found a uniform practice against taking the life of such a prisoner.  See id., at 406–409.  Among the reasons for that time-honored bar, the Court explained, was a moral “intuition” that “killing one who has no capacity” to understand his crime or punishment “simply offends humanity.”  Id., at 407, 409; see id., at 409 (citing the “natural abhorrence civilized societies feel” at performing such an act).  Another rationale rested on the lack of “retributive value” in executing a person who has no comprehension of the meaning of the community’s judgment.  Ibid.; see id., at 421 (Powell, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (stating that the death penalty’s “retributive force[ ] depends on the defendant’s awareness of the penalty’s existence and purpose”).  The resulting rule, now stated as a matter of constitutional law, held “a category of defendants defined by their mental state” incompetent to be executed.  Id., at 419.

															The Court clarified the scope of that category in Panetti v. Quarterman by focusing on whether a prisoner can “reach a rational understanding of the reason for [his] execution.”  551 U. S., at 958.  Like Alvin Ford, Scott Panetti suffered from “gross delusions” stemming from “extreme psychosis.”  Id., at 936, 960.  In reversing a ruling that he could still be executed, the Panetti Court set out the appropriate “standard for competency.”  Id., at 957.  Ford, the Court now noted, had not provided “specific criteria.”  551 U. S., at 957.  But Ford had explored what lay behind the
 
Eighth Amendment’s prohibition, highlighting that the execution of a prisoner who cannot comprehend the reasons for his punishment offends moral values and “serves no retributive purpose.”  551 U. S., at 958.  Those principles, the Panetti Court explained, indicate how to identify prisoners whom the State may not execute.  The critical question is whether a “prisoner’s mental state is so distorted by a mental illness” that he lacks a “rational understanding” of “the State’s rationale for [his] execution.”  Id., at 958–959.  Or similarly put, the issue is whether a “prisoner’s concept of reality” is “so impair[ed]” that he cannot grasp the execution’s “meaning and purpose” or the “link between [his] crime and its punishment.”  Id., at 958, 960.

															B

															Vernon Madison killed a police officer in 1985 during a domestic dispute.  An Alabama jury found him guilty of capital murder, and the trial court sentenced him to death.  He has spent most of the ensuing decades on the State’s death row.

															In recent years, Madison’s mental condition has sharply deteriorated.  Madison suffered a series of strokes, including major ones in 2015 and 2016.  See Tr. 19, 46–47 (Apr. 14, 2016).  He was diagnosed as having vascular dementia, with attendant disorientation and confusion, cognitive impairment, and memory loss.  See id., at 19–20, 52–54.  In particular, Madison claims that he can no longer recollect committing the crime for which he has been sentenced to die.  See Tr., Pet. Exh. 2, p. 8.

															After his 2016 stroke, Madison petitioned the trial court for a stay of execution on the ground that he had become mentally incompetent.  Citing Ford and Panetti, he argued that “he no longer understands” the “status of his case” or the “nature of his conviction and sentence.”  Pet. for Suspension in No. CC–85–1385.80 (C. C. Mobile Cty., Ala., Feb. 12, 2016), pp. 11, 14.  And in a later filing, Madison emphasized that he could not “independently recall the facts of the offense he is convicted of.”  Brief Pursuant to Order (Apr. 21, 2016), p. 8.  Alabama countered that Madison had “a rational understanding of [the reasons for] his impending execution,” as required by Ford and Panetti, even assuming he had no memory of committing his crime.  Brief on Madison’s Competency (April 21, 2016), pp. 4–5, 8.  And more broadly, the State claimed that Madison could not possibly qualify as incompetent under those two decisions because both “concerned themselves with ‘[g]ross delusions’ ”—which all agree Madison does not have.  Id., at 2; see ibid. (Madison “failed to implicate” Ford and Panetti because he “does not suffer from psychosis or delusions”).

															Expert reports from two psychologists largely aligned with the parties’ contending positions.  Dr. John Goff, Madison’s expert, found that although Madison “underst[ood] the nature of execution” in the abstract, he did not comprehend the “reasoning behind” Alabama’s effort to execute him.  Tr., Pet. Exh. 2 (Apr. 14, 2016), p. 8; see id., at 9.  Goff stated that Madison had “Major Vascular Neurological Disorder”—also called vascular dementia—which had caused “significant cognitive decline.”  Ibid.  And Goff underscored that Madison “demonstrate[d] retrograde amnesia” about his crime, meaning that he had no “independent recollection[ ]” of the murder.  Id., at 8; see id., at 9.  For his part, Dr. Karl Kirkland, the court-appointed expert, reported that Madison “was able to discuss his case” accurately and “appear[ed] to understand his legal situation.”  Tr., Ct. Exh. 1, pp. 10–11.  Although Kirkland acknowledged that Madison’s strokes had led to cognitive decline, see id., at 10, the psychologist made no men- tion of Madison’s diagnosed vascular dementia.  Rather, Kirkland highlighted that “[t]here was no evidence of psychosis, paranoia, or delusion.”  Id., at 9; see ibid. (Madison “did not seem delusional at all”).

															At a competency hearing, Alabama similarly stressed Madison’s absence of psychotic episodes or delusions.  The State asked both experts to affirm that Madison was “neither delusional [n]or psychotic.”  Tr. 56; see id., at 22.  And its closing argument focused on their agreement that he was not.  As the State summarized: “He’s not psychotic.  He’s not delusional.”  Id., at 81.  On the State’s view, that fact answered the competency question because “[t]he Supreme Court is looking at whether someone’s delusions or someone’s paranoia or someone’s psychosis is standing in the way of” rationally understanding his punishment.  Id., at 82.  Madison’s counsel disputed that point.  “[T]he State would like to say, well, he’s not delusional, he’s not psychotic,” the attorney recapped.  Id., at 83.  But, she continued, “[t]hat’s not really the criteria” under Panetti.  Tr. 83.  Rather, the Court there barred executing a person with any mental illness—“dementia” and “brain injuries” no less than psychosis and delusions—that prevents him from comprehending “why he is being executed.”  Ibid.

															The trial court found Madison competent to be executed.  Its order first recounted the evidence given by each expert witness.  The summary of Kirkland’s report and testimony began by stating that the psychologist had “found no evidence of paranoia[,] delusion [or] psychosis.”  Order (Apr. 29, 2016), p. 5 (2016 Order).  The court then noted Kirkland’s view that Madison could “give details of the history of his case” and “appear[ed] to understand his legal situation.”  Ibid.  Turning to the Goff report, the court noted the expert’s finding that Madison was “amnesic” and could not recollect his crime.  Id., at 6; see id., at 7.  In a single, final paragraph, the court provided both its ruling and its reasoning.  Madison had failed to show, the court wrote, that he did not “rationally understand the punishment he is about to suffer and why he is about to suffer it.”  Id., at 10.  The court “accept[ed] the testimony of Dr. Kirkland as to the understanding Madison has concerning the situation.”  Ibid.  “Further,” the court concluded, “the evidence does not support that Mr. Madison is delusional.”  Ibid.

															Madison next sought habeas relief in federal court, where he faced the heavy burden of showing that the state-court ruling “involved an unreasonable application of[ ] clearly established federal law” or rested on an “unreasonable determination of the facts.”  Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA),

28 U. S. C. §2254(d).  The District Court rejected his petition, but the Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit ruled that Madison had demonstrated both kinds of indisputable error.  See Madison v. Commissioner, 851 F.3d 1173 (2017).  This Court then summarily reversed the appeals court’s decision.  See Dunn v. Madison, 583 U. S. ___ (2017) (per curiam).  We explained, contrary to the Eleventh Circuit’s principal holding, that “[n]either Panetti nor Ford ‘clearly established’ that a prisoner is incompetent to be executed” because of a simple failure to remember his crime.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 4).  And we found that the state court did not act unreasonably—otherwise put, did not err “beyond any possibility for fairminded disagreement”—when it found that Madison had the necessary understanding to be executed.  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).  But we made clear that our decision was premised on AEDPA’s “demanding” and “deferential standard.”  Id., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 3, 4).  “We express[ed] no view” on the question of Madison’s competency “outside of the AEDPA context.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 4).[1]

															When Alabama set an execution date in 2018, Madison returned to state court to argue again that his mental condition precluded the State from going forward.  In his petition, Madison reiterated the facts and arguments he had previously presented to the state court.  But Madison also claimed that since that court’s decision (1) he had suffered further cognitive decline and (2) a state board had suspended Kirkland’s license to practice psychology, thus discrediting his prior testimony.  See Pet. to Suspend Execution in No. CC–85–1385.80 (C. C. Mobile Cty., Ala., Dec. 18, 2017), pp. 1–2, 16–19.[2]  Alabama responded that nothing material had changed since the court’s first competency hearing.  See Motion to Dismiss (Dec. 20, 2017), p. 9.  The State also repeated its argument that Panetti permits executing Madison, pointing to the experts’ agreement that he is “not delusional or psychotic” and asserting that neither “memory impairment [n]or dementia [could] suffice to satisfy the Panetti and Ford standards” without “an expansion” of those decisions.  Motion to Dismiss 4, 10.  A week before the scheduled execution, the state court again found Madison mentally competent.  Its brief order stated only that Madison “did not provide a substantial threshold showing of insanity[ ] sufficient to convince this Court to stay the execution.”  App. A to Pet. for Cert.

															Madison then filed in this Court a request to stay his execution and a petition for certiorari.  We ordered the stay on the scheduled execution date and granted the petition a few weeks later.  See 583 U. S. ___, ___ (2018).  Because the case now comes to us on direct review of the state court’s decision (rather than in a habeas proceeding), AEDPA’s deferential standard no longer governs.  (And for that reason—contrary to the dissent’s suggestion, post, at 12—our decision on Madison’s habeas petition cannot help resolve the questions raised here.)

															II

															Two issues relating to Panetti’s application are before us.  Recall that our decision there held the
 
Eighth Amendment to forbid executing a prisoner whose mental illness makes him unable to “reach a rational understanding of the reason for [his] execution.”  551 U. S., at 958; see supra, at 2–3.  The first question presented is whether Panetti prohibits executing Madison merely because he cannot remember committing his crime.  The second question raised is whether Panetti permits executing Madison merely because he suffers from dementia, rather than psychotic delusions.[3]  In prior stages of this case, as we have described, the parties disagreed about those matters.  See supra, at 4–8.  But at this Court, Madison accepted Alabama’s positon on the first issue and Alabama accepted Madison’s on the second.  See, e.g., Tr. of Oral Arg. 11, 36. And rightly so.  As the parties now recognize, the standard set out in Panetti supplies the answers to both questions.  First, a person lacking memory of his crime may yet rationally understand why the State seeks to execute him; if so, the
 
Eighth Amendment poses no bar to his execution.  Second, a person suffering from dementia may be unable to rationally understand the reasons for his sentence; if so, the
 
Eighth Amendment does not allow his execution.  What matters is whether a person has the “rational understanding” Panetti requires—not whether he has any particular memory or any particular mental illness.

															A

															Consider initially a person who cannot remember his crime because of a mental disorder, but who otherwise has full cognitive function.  The memory loss is genuine: Let us say the person has some kind of amnesia, which has produced a black hole where that recollection should be.  But the person remains oriented in time and place; he can make logical connections and order his thoughts; and he comprehends familiar concepts of crime and punishment.  Can the State execute him for a murder?  When we considered this case before, using the deferential standard applicable in habeas, we held that a state court could allow such an execution without committing inarguable error.  See Madison, 583 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 4) (stating that no prior decision had “clearly established” the opposite); supra, at 6.  Today, we address the issue straight-up, sans any deference to a state court.  Again, is the failure to remember committing a crime alone enough to prevent a State from executing a prisoner?

															It is not, under Panetti’s own terms.  That decision asks about understanding, not memory—more specifically, about a person’s understanding of why the State seeks capital punishment for a crime, not his memory of the crime itself.  And the one may exist without the other. Do you have an independent recollection of the Civil War?  Obviously not.  But you may still be able to reach a rational—indeed, a sophisticated—understanding of that conflict and its consequences.  Do you recall your first day of school?  Probably not.  But if your mother told you years later that you were sent home for hitting a classmate, you would have no trouble grasping the story.  And similarly, if you somehow blacked out a crime you committed, but later learned what you had done, you could well appreciate the State’s desire to impose a penalty.  Assuming, that is, no other cognitive impairment, loss of memory of a crime does not prevent rational understanding of the State’s reasons for resorting to punishment.  And that kind of comprehension is the Panetti standard’s singular focus.

															The same answer follows from the core justifications Panetti offered for framing its
 
Eighth Amendment test as it did.  Echoing Ford, Panetti reasoned that execution has no retributive value when a prisoner cannot appreciate the meaning of a community’s judgment.  See 551 U. S., at 958–959 (citing 477 U. S., at 407–408); supra, at 3.  But as just explained, a person who can no longer remember a crime may yet recognize the retributive message society intends to convey with a death sentence.  Similarly, Ford and Panetti stated that it “offends humanity” to execute a person so wracked by mental illness that he cannot comprehend the “meaning and purpose of the punishment.”  477 U. S., at 407; 551 U. S., at 960; see id., at 958.  But that offense to morality must be much less when a person’s mental disorder causes nothing more than an episodic memory loss.  Moral values do not exempt the simply forgetful from punishment, whatever the neurological reason for their lack of recall.

															But such memory loss still may factor into the “rational understanding” analysis that Panetti demands.  If that loss combines and interacts with other mental shortfalls to deprive a person of the capacity to comprehend why the State is exacting death as punishment, then the Panetti standard will be satisfied.  That may be so when a person has difficulty preserving any memories, so that even newly gained knowledge (about, say, the crime and punishment) will be quickly forgotten.  Or it may be so when cognitive deficits prevent the acquisition of such knowledge at all, so that memory gaps go forever uncompensated.  As Panetti indicated, neurologists, psychologists, and other experts can contribute to a court’s understanding of issues of that kind.  See id., at 962.  But the sole inquiry for the court remains whether the prisoner can rationally understand the reasons for his death sentence.

															B

															Next consider a prisoner who suffers from dementia or a similar disorder, rather than psychotic delusions.  The dementia, as is typical, has compromised this prisoner’s cognitive functions.  But it has not resulted in the kind of delusional beliefs that Alvin Ford and Scott Panetti held.  May the prisoner nonetheless receive a stay of execution under Ford and Panetti?  Or instead, is a delusional disorder a prerequisite to declaring a mentally ill person incompetent to be executed?  We did not address that issue when we last considered this case, on habeas review; in that sense, the question is one of first impression.  See supra, at 6, n. 1.

															But here too, Panetti has already answered the question.  Its standard focuses on whether a mental disorder has had a particular effect: an inability to rationally understand why the State is seeking execution.  See supra, at 2–3.  Conversely, that standard has no interest in establishing any precise cause: Psychosis or dementia, delusions or overall cognitive decline are all the same under Panetti, so long as they produce the requisite lack of comprehension.  To be sure, Panetti on occasion spoke of “gross delusions” in explaining its holding.  551 U. S., at 960.  And similarly, Ford talked about the “insane,” which sometimes refers to persons holding such irrational beliefs.  See, e.g., 477 U. S., at 401, 410.[4]  But those references are no more than a predictable byproduct of the two cases’ facts.  At the same time (and interchangeably), Panetti used more inclusive terms, such as “mental illness,” “mental disorder,” and “psychological dysfunction.”  551 U. S., at 936, 959, 960; see Ford, 477 U. S., at 408–409, n. 2 (referring to prisoners with “mental illness”).  And most important, Panetti framed its test, as just described, in a way utterly indifferent to a prisoner’s specific mental illness.  The Panetti standard concerns, once again, not the diagnosis of such illness, but a consequence—to wit, the prisoner’s inability to rationally understand his punishment.

															And here too, the key justifications Ford and Panetti offered for the
 
Eighth Amendment’s bar confirm our conclusion about its reach.  As described above, those decisions stated that an execution lacks retributive purpose when a mentally ill prisoner cannot understand the societal judgment underlying his sentence.  See Panetti, 551 U. S., at 958–959; Ford, 477 U. S., at 409; supra, at 2–3.  And they indicated that an execution offends morality in the same circumstance.  See 551 U. S., at 958, 960; 477 U. S., at 409; supra, at 2–3.  Both rationales for the constitutional bar thus hinge (just as the Panetti standard deriving from them does) on the prisoner’s “[in]comprehension of why he has been singled out” to die.  477 U. S., at 409; see supra, at 2–3.  Or said otherwise, if and when that failure of understanding is present, the rationales kick in—irrespective of whether one disease or another (say, psychotic delusions or dementia) is to blame.

															In evaluating competency to be executed, a judge must therefore look beyond any given diagnosis to a downstream consequence.  As Ford and Panetti recognized, a delusional disorder can be of such severity—can “so impair the prisoner’s concept of reality”—that someone in its thrall will be unable “to come to grips with” the punishment’s meaning.  Panetti, 551 U. S., at 958; Ford, 477 U. S., at 409.  But delusions come in many shapes and sizes, and not all will interfere with the understanding that the
 
Eighth Amendment requires.  See Panetti, 551 U. S., at 962 (remanding the case to consider expert evidence on whether the prisoner’s delusions did so).  And much the same is true of dementia.  That mental condition can cause such disorientation and cognitive decline as to prevent a person from sustaining a rational understanding of why the State wants to execute him.  See supra, at 11–12.  But dementia also has milder forms, which allow a person to preserve that understanding.  Hence the need—for dementia as for delusions as for any other mental disorder—to attend to the particular circumstances of a case and make the precise judgment Panetti requires.

															III

															The only question left—and the only one on which the parties now disagree—is whether Madison’s execution may go forward based on the state court’s decision below.  Madison’s counsel says it cannot because that ruling was tainted by legal error—specifically, the idea that only delusions, and not dementia, can support a finding of mental incompetency.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 12, 21, 25, 27.  Alabama counters that the state court did not rely on that (concededly) incorrect view of the law.  See id., at 37–41.  But we come away at the least unsure whether that is so—especially given Alabama’s evidence and arguments in the state court.

															As noted earlier, the 2018 ruling we review today contains only one sentence of explanation.  See supra, at 7–8.  It states that Madison “did not provide a substantial threshold showing of insanity[ ] sufficient to convince this Court to stay the execution.”  App. A to Pet. for Cert.  If the state court used the word “insanity” to refer to a delusional disorder, then error occurred: The court would have denied a stay on the ground that Madison did not have that specific kind of mental illness.  And the likelihood that the court made that mistake is heightened by the State’s emphasis, at that stage of the proceedings (as at others), that Madison was “not delusional or psychotic” and that “dementia” could not suffice to bar his execution absent “an expansion of Ford and Panetti.”  Motion to Dismiss 4, 10; see supra, at 4–8; but see post, at 9–10, and n. 4 (disregarding those arguments).[5]  Alabama argues, however, that the court spoke of “insanity” only because the state statute under which Madison sought relief uses that term.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 37; Ala. Code §15–16–23 (2011) (allowing a stay of execution “on account of the [convict’s] insanity”).  But even if so, that does not advance the State’s view that the state court properly understood the
 
Eighth Amendment bar when assessing Madison’s competency.  Alabama told this Court in opposing certiorari that its statute covers only those with delusional disorders, and not those with dementia.  See Brief in Opposition 12 (“[T]he sole question to be answered under the state statute was whether Madison was insane, not whether he suffered from dementia”).  The state court’s (supposed) echoing of statutory language understood in that way cannot provide assurance that the court knew a person with dementia might receive a stay of execution; indeed, it suggests exactly the opposite.  The court’s 2018 order thus calls out for a do-over.

															Alabama further contends, however, that we should look past the state court’s 2018 decision to the court’s initial 2016 determination of competency.  (The dissent similarly begins with the 2016 ruling, see post, at 6–7, even though that is not the decision under review here.)  According to the State, nothing material changed in the interim period, see supra, at 7; thus, we may find the meaning of the later ruling in the earlier one, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 36–37.  And, the State continues, the 2016 opinion gets the law right.  Alabama’s proof is that the court, after summarizing the psychologists’ testimony, found that “Madison has a rational[ ] understanding, as required by Panetti,” concerning the “punishment he is about to suffer and why he is about to suffer it.”  2016 Order, at 10; see Tr. of Oral Arg. 39; supra, at 5–6.  (The dissent quotes the same passage.  See post, at 7.)

															But the state court’s initial decision does not aid Alabama’s cause.  First, we do not know that the court in 2018 meant to incorporate everything in its prior opinion.  The order says nothing to that effect; and though it came out the same way as the earlier decision, it need not have rested on all the same reasoning.  Second, the 2016 opinion itself does not show that the state court realized that persons suffering from dementia could satisfy the Panetti standard.  True enough, as Alabama says, that the court accurately stated that standard in its decision.  But as described above, Alabama had repeatedly argued to the court (over Madison’s objection) that only prisoners suffering from delusional disorders could qualify as incompetent under Panetti.  See, e.g., Brief on Madison’s Competency 2 (Madison “failed to implicate” Ford and Panetti because he “does not suffer from psychosis or delusions”); Tr. 82 (“The Supreme Court [in Panetti] is looking at whether someone’s delusions or someone’s paranoia or someone’s psychosis is standing in the way of” rationally understanding his punishment); see also supra, at 4–5; but see post, at 9–10, and n. 4 (disregarding those arguments).  And Alabama relied on the expert opinion of a psychologist who highlighted Madison’s lack of “psychosis, paranoia, or delusion,” while never mentioning his dementia.  Tr., Ct. Exh. 1 (Apr. 14, 2016), p. 9.  That too-limited understanding of Panetti’s compass is reflected in the court’s 2016 opinion.  In its single paragraph of analysis, the court “accept[ed] the testimony” of the State’s preferred psychologist.[6]  And the court further found that “the evidence does not support that Mr. Madison is delusional”—without ever considering his undisputed dementia.  2016 Order,  at 10.

															For those reasons, we must return this case to the state court for renewed consideration of Madison’s competency (assuming Alabama sets a new execution date).  See, e.g., Kindred Nursing Centers L. P. v. Clark, 581 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 9) (remanding when “uncertain” whether “an impermissible taint occurred”); Clemons v. Mississippi,

494 U.S. 738, 751–752 (1990) (similar).  In that proceeding, two matters disputed below should now be clear.  First, under Ford and Panetti, the
 
Eighth Amendment may permit executing Madison even if he cannot remember committing his crime.  Second, under those same decisions, the
 
Eighth Amendment may prohibit executing Madison even though he suffers from dementia, rather than delusions.  The sole question on which Madison’s competency depends is whether he can reach a “rational understanding” of why the State wants to execute him.  Panetti, 551 U. S., at 958.  In answering that question—on which we again express no view, see supra, at 6—the state court may not rely on any arguments or evidence tainted with the legal errors we have addressed.  And because that is so, the court should consider whether it needs to supplement the existing record.  Some evidence in that record, including portions of the experts’ reports and testimony, expressly reflects an incorrect view of the relevance of delusions or memory; still other evidence might have implicitly rested on those same misjudgments.  The state court, we have little doubt, can evaluate such matters better than we.  It must do so as the first step in assessing Madison’s competency—and ensuring that if he is to be executed, he understands why.

															We accordingly vacate the judgment of the state court and remand the case for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

															It is so ordered.

															

															Justice Kavanaugh took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.
Notes
1
 Neither did we opine on—or even mention—the subsidiary legal question whether a mental disorder other than delusions may render a person incompetent to be executed.  Alabama told the Eleventh Circuit that it could not, thus reprising the claim the State had made in the trial court.  See Madison, 851 F. 3d, at 1188 (describing Alabama’s argument that “only a prisoner suffering from gross delusions can show incompetency under Panetti”); Recording of Oral Arg. in No. 16–12279 (CA11, June 23, 2016), at 26:36–26:45 (“In this case, what we have is someone who claims to have a mental illness, dementia,” but does not have “delusions, which is what Panetti requires”); id., at 26:48–27:21 (When asked if someone with “severe dementia” but no delusions could be executed, the State responded “I think so because . . . they don’t have delusions”).  (Alabama alternatively argued that the state court’s decision was not based on that view, see Brief for Appellee in No. 16–12279 (CA11), pp. 37–38; the quotations the dissent picks out, see post, at 10, n. 4, come from that additional argument.)  The Eleventh Circuit rejected the State’s contention that dementia could not preclude an execution as “inconsistent with the principles underlying” Ford and Panetti.  851 F. 3d, at 1188.  But we had no reason to address that holding in light of the errors we saw in other parts of the appeals court’s analysis. 

2
 As Madison’s petition recounted, the license suspension followed the opening of a criminal investigation into whether Kirkland had committed narcotics offenses.  See Pet. to Suspend Execution 17–19. 

3
 The dissent is in high dudgeon over our taking up the second question, arguing that it was not presented in Madison’s petition for certiorari.  See post, at 1–6.  But that is incorrect.  The petition presented two questions—the same two we address here.  The first question asked whether the
 
Eighth Amendment bars executing Madison because he has no “memory of his commission of the capital offense.”  Pet. for Cert. iii.  The second question asked whether that Amendment bars his execution because his “vascular dementia” and “severe cognitive dysfunction” prevent him from either remembering his crime “or understanding the circumstances of his scheduled execution.”  Ibid.  So the first question concerned whether memory loss alone could form the basis of a Panetti claim and the second whether the varied consequences of dementia could do so.  The body of the petition, to be sure, devoted more space to the first question.  But it clearly referenced the second.  See Pet. for Cert. 18 (“[T]his Court has never sought to constrain the world of maladies that can give rise to a finding that a prisoner is incompetent to be executed”); id., at 25 (“[C]ourts have recognized dementia and attendant cognitive decline and memory impairment as a basis for a finding of incompetency to be executed”).  And in any event, the number of words spent on each is not what matters.  Our Rule states that the Court will consider “[o]nly the questions set out in the petition, or fairly included therein.”  This Court’s Rule 14.1(a).  Here, we consider, in order, the two questions set out in Madison’s petition. 

4
 Alternatively, however, the term may also be used to encompass persons with other mental conditions, so long as they are “severe enough [to] prevent[ ] a person from having legal capacity and excuse[ ] the person from criminal or civil responsibility.”  Black’s Law Dictionary 914 (10th ed. 2014).  In that different understanding, “insanity” connotes a general standard of legal competency rather than a more limited description of delusional disorders. 

5
 The State once again repeated that argument in its Brief in Opposition to Madison’s certiorari petition.  See Brief in Opposition 11–12 (“Madison does not argue that he is insane.  Instead, he argues that he suffers from dementia” and that his execution should be barred “under a yet-unannounced expansion of Ford and Panetti”). 

6
 The court well understood that expert’s exclusive focus on whether Madison had psychotic delusions.  In summarizing his testimony, the court began as follows: “Dr. Kirkland in his exam found no evidence of paranoia or delusion at the time of his examin[ation], on March 31, 2016.  He also found that there was no psychosis present.”  2016 Order, at 5; see supra, at 5. 


