::SCDB_caseID:: 2017-074
::decision_cite:: 17-965
::decision_name::  Trump v. Hawaii
::decision_year:: 2018
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 17–965

															_________________

															DONALD J. TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, et al., PETITIONERS v. HAWAII, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 26, 2018]

															

															Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Kagan joins, dissenting.

															The question before us is whether Proclamation No. 9645 is lawful.  If its promulgation or content was significantly affected by religious animus against Muslims, it would violate the relevant statute or the
 
First Amendment itself.  See

8 U. S. C. §1182(f) (requiring “find[ings]” that persons denied entry “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States”); Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah,

508 U. S. 520 (1993) (
 
First Amendment); Masterpiece Cakeshop, Ltd. v. Colorado Civil Rights Comm’n, 584 U. S. ___ (2018) (same); post, at 2–4 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting).  If, however, its sole ratio decidendi was one of national security, then it would be unlikely to violate either the statute or the Constitution.  Which is it?  Members of the Court principally disagree about the answer to this question, i.e., about whether or the extent to which religious animus played a significant role in the Proclamation’s promulgation or content.

															In my view, the Proclamation’s elaborate system of exemptions and waivers can and should help us answer this question.  That system provides for case-by-case consideration of persons who may qualify for visas despite the Proclamation’s general ban.  Those persons include lawful permanent residents, asylum seekers, refugees, students, children, and numerous others.  There are likely many such persons, perhaps in the thousands.  And I believe it appropriate to take account of their Proclamation-granted status when considering the Proclamation’s lawfulness.  The Solicitor General asked us to consider the Proclamation “as” it is “written” and “as” it is “applied,” waivers and exemptions included.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 38.  He warned us against considering the Proclamation’s lawfulness “on the hypothetical situation that [the Proclamation] is what it isn’t,” ibid., while telling us that its waiver and exemption provisions mean what they say: The Proclamation does not exclude individuals from the United States “if they meet the criteria” for a waiver or exemption.  Id., at 33.

															On the one hand, if the Government is applying the exemption and waiver provisions as written, then its argument for the Proclamation’s lawfulness is strengthened.  For one thing, the Proclamation then resembles more closely the two important Presidential precedents on point, President Carter’s Iran order and President Reagan’s Cuba proclamation, both of which contained similar categories of persons authorized to obtain case-by-case exemptions.  Ante, at 36–37; Exec. Order No. 12172, 44 Fed. Reg. 67947 (1979), as amended by Exec. Order No. 12206, 45 Fed. Reg. 24101 (1980); Presidential Proclamation No. 5517, 51 Fed. Reg. 30470 (1986).  For another thing, the Proclamation then follows more closely the basic statutory scheme, which provides for strict case-by-case scrutiny of applications.  It would deviate from that system, not across the board, but where circumstances may require that deviation.

															Further, since the case-by-case exemptions and waivers apply without regard to the individual’s religion, application of that system would help make clear that the Proclamation does not deny visas to numerous Muslim individuals (from those countries) who do not pose a security threat.  And that fact would help to rebut the
 
First Amendment claim that the Proclamation rests upon anti-Muslim bias rather than security need.  Finally, of course, the very fact that Muslims from those countries would enter the United States (under Proclamation-provided exemptions and waivers) would help to show the same thing.

															On the other hand, if the Government is not applying the system of exemptions and waivers that the Proclamation contains, then its argument for the Proclamation’s lawfulness becomes significantly weaker.  For one thing, the relevant precedents—those of Presidents Carter and Reagan—would bear far less resemblance to the present Proclamation.  Indeed, one might ask, if those two Presidents thought a case-by-case exemption system appropriate, what is different about present circumstances that would justify that system’s absence?

															For another thing, the relevant statute requires that there be “find[ings]” that the grant of visas to excluded persons would be “detrimental to the interests of the United States.”  §1182(f ).  Yet there would be no such findings in respect to those for whom the Proclamation itself provides case-by-case examination (followed by the grant of a visa in appropriate cases).

															And, perhaps most importantly, if the Government is not applying the Proclamation’s exemption and waiver system, the claim that the Proclamation is a “Muslim ban,” rather than a “security-based” ban, becomes much stronger.  How could the Government successfully claim that the Proclamation rests on security needs if it is excluding Muslims who satisfy the Proclamation’s own terms?  At the same time, denying visas to Muslims who meet the Proclamation’s own security terms would support the view that the Government excludes them for reasons based upon their religion.

															Unfortunately there is evidence that supports the second possibility, i.e., that the Government is not applying the Proclamation as written.  The Proclamation provides that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security “shall coordinate to adopt guidance” for consular officers to follow when deciding whether to grant a waiver.  §3(c)(ii).  Yet, to my knowledge, no guidance has issued.  The only potentially relevant document I have found consists of a set of State Department answers to certain Frequently Asked Questions, but this document simply restates the Proclamation in plain language for visa applicants.  It does not provide guidance for consular officers as to how they are to exercise their discretion.  See Dept. of State, FAQs on the Presidential Proclamation, https:// travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/visa-information- resources/presidential-proclamation-archive/2017-12-04-Presidential-Proclamation.html (all Internet materials as last visited June 25, 2018).

															 An examination of publicly available statistics also provides cause for concern.  The State Department reported that during the Proclamation’s first month, two waivers were approved out of 6,555 eligible applicants.  Letter from M. Waters, Assistant Secretary Legislative Affairs, to Sen. Van Hollen (Feb. 22, 2018).  In its reply brief, the Government claims that number increased from 2 to 430 during the first four months of implementation.  Reply Brief 17.  That number, 430, however, when compared with the number of pre-Proclamation visitors, accounts for a miniscule percentage of those likely eligible for visas, in such categories as persons requiring medical treatment, academic visitors, students, family members, and others belonging to groups that, when considered as a group (rather than case by case), would not seem to pose security threats.

															Amici have suggested that there are numerous applicants who could meet the waiver criteria.  For instance, the Proclamation anticipates waivers for those with “significant business or professional obligations” in the United States, §3(c)(iv)(C), and amici identify many scholars who would seem to qualify.  Brief for Colleges and Universities as Amici Curiae 25–27; Brief for American Council on Education et al. as Amici Curiae 20 (identifying more than 2,100 scholars from covered countries); see also Brief for Massachusetts Technology Leadership Council, Inc., as Amicus Curiae 14–15 (identifying technology and business leaders from covered countries).  The Proclamation also anticipates waivers for those with a “close family member (e.g., a spouse, child, or parent)” in the United States, §3(c)(iv)(D), and amici identify many such individuals affected by the Proclamation.  Brief for Labor Organizations as Amici Curiae 15–18 (identifying children and other relatives of U. S. citizens).  The Pars Equality Center identified 1,000 individuals—including parents and children of U. S. citizens—who sought and were denied entry under the Proclamation, hundreds of whom seem to meet the waiver criteria.  See Brief for Pars Equality Center et al. as Amici Curiae 12–28.

															Other data suggest the same.  The Proclamation does not apply to asylum seekers or refugees.  §§3(b)(vi), 6(e).  Yet few refugees have been admitted since the Proclamation took effect.  While more than 15,000 Syrian refugees arrived in the United States in 2016, only 13 have arrived since January 2018.  Dept. of State, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, Interactive Reporting, Refugee Processing Center, http://ireports.wrapsnet.org.  Similarly few refugees have been admitted since January from Iran (3), Libya (1), Yemen (0), and Somalia (122).  Ibid.

															The Proclamation also exempts individuals applying for several types of nonimmigrant visas: lawful permanent residents, parolees, those with certain travel documents, dual nationals of noncovered countries, and representatives of governments or international organizations.  §§3(b)(i)–(v).  It places no restrictions on the vast majority of student and exchange visitors, covering only those from Syria, which provided 8 percent of student and exchange visitors from the five countries in 2016.  §§2(b)–(h); see Dept. of State, Report of the Visa Office 2016, Table XVII Nonimmigrant Visas Issued Fiscal Year 2016 (Visa Report 2016 Table XVII).  Visitors from Somalia are eligible for any type of nonimmigrant visa, subject to “additional scrutiny.”  §2(h)(ii).  If nonimmigrant visa applications under the Proclamation resemble those in 2016, 16 percent of visa applicants would be eligible for exemptions.  See Visa Report 2016 Table XVII.

															In practice, however, only 258 student visas were issued to applicants from Iran (189), Libya (29), Yemen (40), and Somalia (0) in the first three months of 2018.  See Dept. of State, Nonimmigrant Visa Issuances by Nationality, Jan., Feb., and Mar. 2018.  This is less than a quarter of the volume needed to be on track for 2016 student visa levels.  And only 40 nonimmigrant visas have been issued to Somali nationals, a decrease of 65 percent from 2016.  Ibid.; see Visa Report 2016 Table XVII.  While this is but a piece of the picture, it does not provide grounds for confidence.

															Anecdotal evidence further heightens these concerns.  For example, one amicus identified a child with cerebral palsy in Yemen.  The war had prevented her from receiving her medication, she could no longer move or speak, and her doctors said she would not survive in Yemen.  Her visa application was denied.  Her family received a form with a check mark in the box unambiguously confirming that “ ‘a waiver will not be granted in your case.’ ”  Letter from L. Blatt to S. Harris, Clerk of Court (May 1, 2018).  But after the child’s case was highlighted in an amicus brief before this Court, the family received an update from the consular officer who had initially denied the waiver.  It turns out, according to the officer, that she had all along determined that the waiver criteria were met.  But, the officer explained, she could not relay that information at the time because the waiver required review from a supervisor, who had since approved it.  The officer said that the family’s case was now in administrative processing and that she was attaching a “ ‘revised refusal letter indicating the approval of the waiver.’ ”  Ibid.  The new form did not actually approve the waiver (in fact, the form contains no box saying “granted”).  But a different box was now checked, reading: “ ‘The consular officer is reviewing your eligibility for a waiver under the Proclamation. . . . This can be a lengthy process, and until the consular officer can make an individualized determination of [the relevant] factors, your visa application will remain refused under Section 212(f) [of the Proclamation].’ ”  Ibid.  One is left to wonder why this second box, indicating continuing review, had not been checked at the outset if in fact the child’s case had remained under consideration all along.  Though this is but one incident and the child was admitted after considerable international attention in this case, it provides yet more reason to believe that waivers are not being processed in an ordinary way.

															Finally, in a pending case in the Eastern District of New York, a consular official has filed a sworn affidavit asserting that he and other officials do not, in fact, have discretion to grant waivers.  According to the affidavit, consular officers “were not allowed to exercise that discretion” and “the waiver [process] is merely ‘window dressing.’ ”  See Decl. of Christopher Richardson, Alharbi v. Miller, No. 1:18-cv-2435 (June 1, 2018), pp. 3–4.  Another report similarly indicates that the U. S. Embassy in Djibouti, which processes visa applications for citizens of Yemen, received instructions to grant waivers “only in rare cases of imminent danger,” with one consular officer reportedly telling an applicant that “ ‘[e]ven for infants, we would need to see some evidence of a congenital heart defect or another medical issue of that degree of difficulty that . . . would likely lead to the child’s developmental harm or death.’ ”  Center for Constitutional Rights and the Rule of Law Clinic, Yale Law School, Window Dressing the Muslim Ban: Reports of Waivers and Mass Denials from Yemeni-American Families Stuck in Limbo 18 (2018).

															Declarations, anecdotal evidence, facts, and numbers taken from amicus briefs are not judicial factfindings.  The Government has not had an opportunity to respond, and a court has not had an opportunity to decide.  But, given the importance of the decision in this case, the need for assurance that the Proclamation does not rest upon a “Muslim ban,” and the assistance in deciding the issue that answers to the “exemption and waiver” questions may provide, I would send this case back to the District Court for further proceedings.  And, I would leave the injunction in effect while the matter is litigated.  Regardless, the Court’s decision today leaves the District Court free to explore these issues on remand.

															If this Court must decide the question without this further litigation, I would, on balance, find the evidence of antireligious bias, including statements on a website taken down only after the President issued the two executive orders preceding the Proclamation, along with the other statements also set forth in Justice Sotomayor’s opinion, a sufficient basis to set the Proclamation aside.  And for these reasons, I respectfully dissent.
													
