::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-014
::decision_cite:: 18-1259
::decision_name::  Jones v. Mississippi
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–1259

															_________________

															BRETT JONES, PETITIONER v. MISSISSIPPI

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeals of mississippi

															[April 22, 2021]

															

															Justice Thomas, concurring in the judgment.

															The Court correctly holds that the
 
Eighth Amendment does not require a finding that a minor be permanently incorrigible as a prerequisite to a sentence of life without parole.  But in reaching that result, the majority adopts a strained reading of Montgomery v. Louisiana,

577 U.S. 190 (2016), instead of outright admitting that it is irreconcilable with Miller v. Alabama,

567 U.S. 460 (2012)—and the Constitution.  The better approach is to be patently clear that Montgomery was a “demonstrably erroneous” decision worthy of outright rejection.  Gamble v. United States, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 2).

															I

															Brett Jones, then 15, murdered his grandfather.  At the time of his trial and sentencing, Mississippi law automatically punished his crime with life without parole.  A few years later, however, this Court held that youthful offenders are constitutionally entitled to an “individualized sentencing” process.  Miller, 567 U. S., at 465.  The Mississippi Supreme Court thus ordered a new hearing at which the judge dutifully considered the factors “relevant to [Jones’] culpability” before again sentencing him to life without parole.  App. 149.

															Jones appealed, citing yet another new decision—Montgomery—in which this Court held that Miller’s rule was “substantive” and hence had to be retroactively applied to cases on collateral review.  577 U. S., at 212.  Without more, the fact that Miller was now retroactive did not help Jones, as he had already received the “individualized” hearing Miller required.  567 U. S., at 465.  Therefore, Jones argued that Montgomery further required the sentencing judge to “make a specific ‘finding’ that he is irretrievably depraved, irreparably corrupt, or permanently incorrigible.”  285 So. 3d 626, 632 (Miss. App. 2017).  That theory was not necessarily a stretch—as Montgomery explained that a life-without-parole sentence “violates the
 
Eighth Amendment for a child whose crime reflects ‘ “unfortunate yet transient immaturity.” ’ ”  577 U. S., at 208.  But the Mississippi Court of Appeals disagreed, noting that Montgomery also “stated that ‘Miller did not require trial courts to make a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility’ [or] ‘impose a formal factfinding requirement.’ ”  285 So. 3d, at 632.

															II

															Miller and Montgomery are from the same lineage of precedent that refashions the
 
Eighth Amendment to accommodate this Court’s views of juvenile justice.[1]  The similarities end there, however, because the decisions cannot be reconciled. 

															A

															Miller announced a purely procedural rule: A State may not automatically sentence a juvenile to life without parole, but must instead provide an individualized sentencing process.  In reaching this conclusion, the Court explicitly cabined its holding to cases in which the sentencer lacked “discretion to impose a different punishment.”  Miller, 567 U. S., at 465; accord, e.g., id., at 479–480.  Were there any doubt that Miller focused only on the availability of individualized sentencing, the Court stressed that it was “not categorically bar[ring] a penalty for a class of offenders or type of crime” but instead “mandat[ing] only that a sentencer follow a certain process.”  Id., at 483.

															Miller’s descriptions of its procedural holding track with the opinion’s mode of analysis.  At one point, for example, Miller discussed a line of precedents that condition the death penalty on an individualized sentencing process.  Id., at 475–476.  Reasoning by analogy, the Court explained that “mandatory penalties” for juveniles “preclude a sentencer from taking account of an offender’s age and the wealth of characteristics and circumstances attendant to it.”  Id., at 476.  The Court also canvassed the jurisdictions that had some form of mandatory life-without-parole, id., at 482–487, and nn. 9–10, 13–14, which would have been an unusual detour if the opinion were concerned with anything more than nondiscretionary punishments.  And it declined to “consider [the] alternative argument that the
 
Eighth Amendment requires a categorical bar on life without parole for juveniles.”  Id., at 479.

															B

															This narrow holding became inconvenient when the Court decided to apply Miller retroactively to prisoners whose sentences were already final.  Under the approach announced in Teague v. Lane,

489 U.S. 288 (1989), Miller could have been retroactive only if it were a “watershed” rule of criminal procedure or a “substantive” rule, Beard v. Banks,

542 U.S. 406, 416–419, and n. 7 (2004).

															Precedent foreclosed the first option.  Miller “mandate[d] only that a sentencer follow a certain process” as a prerequisite to life without parole, 567 U. S., at 483, but this directive was hardly “watershed.”  According to Teague, a procedural rule might have a claim to watershed status if it were “ ‘ “implicit in the concept of ordered liberty.” ’ ”  Banks, 542, U. S., at 417.  So limited was this possibility that, in “ ‘the years since Teague, we . . . rejected every claim that a new rule satisfied the requirements for watershed status.’ ”  Ramos v. Louisiana, 590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in part) (slip op., at 16).  Or in more concrete terms, we repeatedly suggested that a rule might be watershed only if it were akin to a defendant’s right to counsel as articulated in Gideon v. Wainwright,

372 U.S. 335 (1963).  See Banks, 542 U. S., at 417–418.  Whatever Miller might have done, its narrow rule about juvenile sentencing “ ‘ha[d] none of the primacy and centrality of the rule adopted in Gideon.’ ”  Banks, 542 U. S., at 420.

															Rather than accept what was plainly the case—that Miller was procedural, not watershed, and thus not retroactive—Montgomery proceeded to “rewrite” it into a substantive rule.  577 U. S., at 224 (Scalia, J., dissenting).  Despite acknowledging that “Miller’s holding has a procedural component,” the majority explained that this procedure was actually just a way “to implement a substantive guarantee.”  Id., at 209–210.  This guarantee, according to Montgomery, was that “all” juvenile offenders—except for a rare few “whose crimes reflect permanent incorrigibility”—are categorically exempt from life without parole.  Id., at 209.

															That reimagined rule was substantive under our precedents.  Substantive rules include those that “ ‘prohibi[t ] a certain category of punishment for a class of defendants because of their status or offense.’ ”  Banks, 542 U. S., at 416.  For example—a rule that “life without parole is an excessive sentence for children whose crimes reflect transient immaturity.”  Montgomery, 577 U. S., at 210.  Montgomery could not have been clearer that its rule transcended mere procedure: “Even if a court considers a child’s age before sentencing him or her to a lifetime in prison, that sentence still violates the
 
Eighth Amendment for a child whose crime reflects ‘ “unfortunate yet transient immaturity.” ’ ”  Id., at 208.

															The problem with this new rule is that it had little to do with Miller.  Through a feat of legerdemain, Montgomery began by acknowledging that Miller did “ ‘not categorically bar a penalty for a class of offenders or type of crime,’ ” yet just three sentences later concluded that “Miller did bar life without parole . . . for all but the rarest of juvenile offenders, those whose crimes reflect permanent incorrigibility.”  577 U. S., at 209.  In a similar Janus-faced demonstration, Montgomery reiterated Miller’s assurance that “trial courts [need not] make a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility,” yet decided that “Miller drew a line between children whose crimes reflect transient immaturity and those rare children whose crimes reflect irreparable corruption.”  577 U. S., at 209–211.[2]  These statements cannot be reconciled.

															C

															Just as the procedural rule of Miller created problems for the majority in Montgomery, the substantive rule of Montgomery creates problems for the majority in this case.  If Montgomery is correct about the existence of a concrete class of offenders who—as a matter of fundamental constitutional law—are categorically exempt from a sentence of life without parole, then there must be a determination as to whether Jones falls within that protected class.  Otherwise, the “line” Miller ostensibly “drew . . . between children whose crimes reflect transient immaturity and those rare children whose crimes reflect irreparable corruption” is more fanciful than real.  Montgomery, 577 U. S., at 209.

															Sure enough, this Court has often demanded factual findings when it comes to other classes of criminals that this Court has declared categorically exempt from certain punishments.  See, e.g., Moore v. Texas, 586 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (per curiam) (slip op., at 10) (finding that an offender “ha[d] shown [that] he is a person with intellectual disability”); Madison v. Alabama, 586 U. S. ___, ___, ___–___ (2019) (slip op., at 8, 17–18) (vacating and remanding “for renewed consideration” of the record after a state court “found [a prisoner] mentally competent” and thus eligible for execution).  I doubt that a majority of this Court would tolerate the execution of an offender who alleges insanity or intellectual disability absent a satisfactory finding to the contrary.

															In response, the majority suggests that insanity and intellectual disability are legitimate “eligibility criteri[a]” because they are easy to evaluate, whereas “permanent incorrigibility . . . ‘is difficult even for expert psychologists to [assess].’ ”  Ante, at 8.  This notion that the former categories are clear cut and predictable might come as news to the States that have spent years chasing the ever-evolving definitions of mental incompetence promulgated by this Court and its preferred experts.  See, e.g., Moore, 586 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 2–10); Moore v. Texas, 581 U. S. ___, ___, ___–___ (2017) (slip op., at 2, 5–18) (courts must heed “the force of the medical community’s consensus”); Hall v. Florida,

572 U.S. 701, 724 (2014).  I trust, however, that future decisions will contain simple and static rules.

															D

															Montgomery’s creation of a categorical exemption for certain offenders thus leaves us with two obvious options.  First, we could follow Montgomery’s logic and hold that the “legality” of Jones’ sentence turns on whether his crime in fact “reflect[s] permanent incorrigibility.”  577 U. S., at 205, 209.  Or we could just acknowledge that Montgomery had no basis in law or the Constitution.

															The majority, however, selects a third way: Overrule Montgomery in substance but not in name.  The opinion candidly admits both that Miller’s rule was “procedural” and that Montgomery “ma[de] the rule retroactive.”  Ante, at 9, 11–12.  The only way to reconcile these statements with the bottom-line judgment in this case—that Jones is not entitled to a determination whether he falls within a constitutionally protected category of offenders—is to reject Montgomery.  And sure enough, the majority does just that, albeit in a footnote.  See ante, at 12, n. 4 (explaining that Montgomery is “in tension” with many other decisions).  But because Montgomery’s freewheeling approach to the law is ripe for abuse, the majority’s whisper is worth restating above the line: Montgomery gave a good-for-one-ride ticket to a class of juvenile offenders, and its errors will never be repeated.

															Firm condemnation of Montgomery is particularly appropriate because this Court is unable to fully repair the damage it has caused.  Although the majority closes the door to courts following Montgomery in the future, in doing so it tacitly admits that the horses have already left the barn: “[M]ost offenders who could seek collateral review as a result of Montgomery have done so.”  Ante, at 12, n. 4.  Today’s judgment thus offers cold comfort to the States that have already faced the unenviable choice between “permitting juvenile homicide offenders to be considered for parole” and relitigating murder sentences long after the fact.  Montgomery, 577 U. S., at 212; see also id., at 226–227 (Scalia, J., dissenting).  The least we can do is to fully own up to Montgomery’s sins.

															The majority also largely leaves untouched Montgomery’s violation of the rule that the Constitution “ ‘ leaves the unavoidably moral question of who “deserves” a particular nonprohibited method of punishment to the judgment of the legislatures that authorize the penalty. ’ ”  Miller, 567 U. S., at 504 (Thomas, J., dissenting).  When the
 
Eighth Amendment was enacted, juveniles even younger than Jones could be tried as adults, and mandatory death sentences were available.  See id., at 503, n. 2.  “It is therefore implausible that a [15]-year-old’s . . . prison sentence—of any length, with or without parole—would have been viewed as cruel and unusual.”  Ibid.  By failing to condemn Montgomery’s expansion of Miller to an entire category of individuals, the majority blesses yet another step “on the path to further judicial displacement of the legislative role in prescribing appropriate punishment for crime.”  567 U. S., at 500 (Roberts, C. J., dissenting).

															Finally, I would expressly reject the portion of Montgomery that “purported to constitutionalize” the substantive exception “so that it would apply in [the petitioner’s] state court proceeding.”  Brief for Jonathan F. Mitchell et al. as Amici Curiae in Edwards v. Vannoy, O. T. 2020, No. 19–5807, pp. 5–6 (emphasis deleted).  Despite this Court’s longstanding recognition that “the Constitution neither prohibits nor requires retrospective effect,” Linkletter v. Walker,

381 U.S. 618, 629 (1965); cf. Teague, 489 U. S., at 302–310 (plurality opinion) (narrowing Linkletter even further), the Montgomery Court demanded that the Louisiana courts “recognize [Miller’s] retroactive effect.”  577 U. S., at 200, 205.  That improper intrusion on state postconviction review is also worth correcting.

															*  *  *

															Today’s majority labors mightily to avoid confronting the tension between Miller and Montgomery.  But though the Court purports to leave Montgomery’s holding intact, it recognizes that Montgomery’s analysis is untenable and not to be repeated.  It would be simpler to reject Montgomery in both name and substance.
Notes
1
 See, e.g., Roper v. Simmons,

543 U.S. 551, 556, 578 (2005) (prohibiting the execution of a (barely) juvenile murderer who had bragged that his age would allow him to “ ‘get away with it’ ”); Graham v. Florida,

560 U.S. 48, 74 (2010) (prohibiting life-without-parole sentences for juvenile nonhomicide offenders). 

2
 The Court’s language in this line of precedents is notable.  When addressing juvenile murderers, this Court has stated that “ ‘children are different’ ” and that courts must consider “a child’s lesser culpability.”  Montgomery, 577 U. S., at 207–208 (emphasis added).  And yet, when assessing the Court-created right of an individual of the same age to seek an abortion, Members of this Court take pains to emphasize a “young woman’s” right to choose.  See, e.g., Lambert v. Wicklund,

520 U.S. 292, 301 (1997) (Stevens, J., joined by Ginsburg and Breyer, JJ., concurring in judgment) (emphasis added); Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey,

505 U.S. 833, 899 (1992) (joint opinion of O’Connor, Kennedy, and Souter, JJ.); Ohio v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health,

497 U.S. 502, 532 (1990) (Blackmun, J., joined by Brennan and Marshall, JJ., dissenting).  It is curious how the Court’s view of the maturity of minors ebbs and flows depending on the issue. 


