::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-031
::decision_cite:: 18-1109
::decision_name::  McKinney v. Arizona
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–1109

															_________________

															JAMES ERIN McKINNEY, PETITIONER v. ARIZONA

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of arizona

															[February 25, 2020]

															

															Justice Kavanaugh delivered the opinion of the Court.

															Over a 4-week span in early 1991, James McKinney and his half brother, Charles Hedlund, burglarized five residences in the Phoenix, Arizona, area.  During one of the burglaries, McKinney and Hedlund beat and repeatedly stabbed Christine Mertens.  McKinney then shot Mertens in the back of the head, fatally wounding her.  In another burglary, McKinney and Hedlund killed Jim McClain by shooting him in the back of the head with a sawed-off rifle.

															In 1992, an Arizona jury convicted McKinney of two counts of first-degree murder.  Under this Court’s precedents, a defendant convicted of murder is eligible for a death sentence if at least one aggravating circumstance is found.  See Tuilaepa v. California,

512 U.S. 967 (1994); Zant v. Stephens,

462 U.S. 862 (1983); Gregg v. Georgia,

428 U.S. 153 (1976).  McKinney’s trial judge found aggravating circumstances for both murders.  For the Mertens murder, the judge found that McKinney committed the murder for pecuniary gain and that McKinney killed Mertens in an especially heinous, cruel, or depraved manner.  For the McClain murder, the judge found that McKinney committed the murder for pecuniary gain and that McKinney had been convicted of another offense with a potential sentence of life imprisonment or death (the Mertens murder).

															The trial judge then weighed the aggravating and mitigating circumstances and sentenced McKinney to death for both murders.  In 1996, the Arizona Supreme Court affirmed McKinney’s death sentences.

															Nearly 20 years later, on federal habeas corpus review, an en banc panel of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit decided by a 6 to 5 vote that, in sentencing McKinney, the Arizona courts had failed to properly consider McKinney’s posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and had thereby run afoul of this Court’s decision in Eddings v. Oklahoma,

455 U.S. 104 (1982).  In Eddings, this Court held that a capital sentencer may not refuse as a matter of law to consider relevant mitigating evidence.  Id., at 113–114.

															McKinney’s case then returned to the Arizona Supreme Court.  In that court, McKinney argued that he was entitled to resentencing by a jury.  By contrast, the State asked that the Arizona Supreme Court itself conduct a reweighing of the aggravating and mitigating circumstances, as permitted by Clemons v. Mississippi,

494 U.S. 738 (1990).  The Arizona Supreme Court agreed with the State.  The court itself reviewed the evidence in the record and reweighed the relevant aggravating and mitigating circumstances, including McKinney’s PTSD.  The court upheld both death sentences.  245 Ariz. 225, 426 P.3d 1204 (2018).

															McKinney petitioned for certiorari in this Court.  Because of the importance of the case to capital sentencing in Arizona, we granted certiorari.  587 U. S. ___ (2019).

															The issue in this case is narrow.  McKinney contends that after the Ninth Circuit identified an Eddings error, the Arizona Supreme Court could not itself reweigh the aggravating and mitigating circumstances.  Rather, according to McKinney, a jury must resentence him.

															McKinney’s argument does not square with this Court’s decision in Clemons.  In Clemons, a Mississippi jury sentenced the defendant to death based in part on two aggravating circumstances.  After the Mississippi Supreme Court determined that one of the aggravators was unconstitutionally vague, the defendant argued that he was entitled to resentencing before a jury so that the jury could properly weigh the permissible aggravating and mitigating evidence.  This Court disagreed.  The Court concluded that the Mississippi Supreme Court could itself reweigh the permissible aggravating and mitigating evidence.  494 U. S., at 745–750.  This Court stated that “the Federal Constitution does not prevent a state appellate court from upholding a death sentence that is based in part on an invalid or improperly defined aggravating circumstance either by reweighing of the aggravating and mitigating evidence or by harmless-error review.”  Id., at 741.  The Court explained that a Clemons reweighing is not a resentencing but instead is akin to harmless-error review in that both may be conducted by an appellate court.

															McKinney contends that Clemons does not apply here.  He raises two basic arguments.

															First, McKinney maintains that Clemons involved an improperly considered aggravating circumstance, whereas his case involves what the Ninth Circuit said was an improperly ignored mitigating circumstance.  But the Court’s analysis in Clemons hinged on its assessment of appellate courts’ ability to weigh aggravating and mitigating evidence, not on any unique effect of aggravators as distinct from mitigators.  After noting that the “primary concern in the
 
Eighth Amendment context has been that the sentencing decision be based on the facts and circumstances of the defendant, his background, and his crime,” the Court explained that nothing “inherent in the process of appellate reweighing is inconsistent” with that objective.  Id., at 748.  Indeed, the Court explicitly rejected the argument that “appellate courts are unable to fully consider and give effect to the mitigating evidence presented by defendants at the sentencing phase in a capital case.”  Ibid.  And the Court concluded that a state appellate court may uphold the death sentence after a “reweighing of the aggravating and mitigating evidence.”  Id., at 741.

															In deciding whether a particular defendant warrants a death sentence in light of the mix of aggravating and mitigating circumstances, there is no meaningful difference for purposes of appellate reweighing between subtracting an aggravator from one side of the scale and adding a mitigator to the other side.  Both involve weighing, and the Court’s decision in Clemons ruled that appellate tribunals may perform a “reweighing of the aggravating and mitigating evidence.”  Ibid.  In short, a Clemons reweighing is a permissible remedy for an Eddings error.

															Second, the Court decided Clemons back in 1990, and McKinney argues that Clemons is no longer good law in the wake of this Court’s decisions in Ring v. Arizona,

536 U.S. 584 (2002), and Hurst v. Florida, 577 U. S. ___ (2016).  According to McKinney, appellate courts may no longer reweigh aggravating and mitigating circumstances in determining whether to uphold a death sentence.  McKinney is incorrect.

															In Ring, this Court held that capital defendants “are entitled to a jury determination of any fact on which the legislature conditions an increase in their maximum punishment”—in particular, the finding of an aggravating circumstance.  536 U. S., at 589.  In Hurst, the Court applied Ring and decided that Florida’s capital sentencing scheme impermissibly allowed “a sentencing judge to find an aggravating circumstance, independent of a jury’s factfinding, that is necessary for imposition of the death penalty.”  577 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9).

															Under Ring and Hurst, a jury must find the aggravating circumstance that makes the defendant death eligible.  But importantly, in a capital sentencing proceeding just as in an ordinary sentencing proceeding, a jury (as opposed to a judge) is not constitutionally required to weigh the aggravating and mitigating circumstances or to make the ultimate sentencing decision within the relevant sentencing range.  In Apprendi v. New Jersey,

530 U.S. 466 (2000), this Court carefully avoided any suggestion that “it is impermissible for judges to exercise discretion—taking into consideration various factors relating both to offense and offender—in imposing a judgment within the range prescribed by statute.”  Id., at 481.  And in the death penalty context, as Justice Scalia, joined by Justice Thomas, explained in his concurrence in Ring, the decision in Ring “has nothing to do with jury sentencing.  What today’s decision says is that the jury must find the existence of the fact that an aggravating factor existed.”  536 U. S., at 612; see also Kansas v. Carr, 577 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2016) (slip op., at 9–11).  Therefore, as Justice Scalia explained, the “States that leave the ultimate life-or-death decision to the judge may continue to do so.”  Ring, 536 U. S., at 612.

															In short, Ring and Hurst did not require jury weighing of aggravating and mitigating circumstances, and Ring and Hurst did not overrule Clemons so as to prohibit appellate reweighing of aggravating and mitigating circumstances.

															In addition to those two arguments about Clemons, McKinney advances an additional argument based on Ring and Hurst.  This argument focuses not on the weighing of aggravators and mitigators, but rather on the Arizona trial court’s initial 1993 finding of the aggravating circumstances that made McKinney eligible for the death penalty.  McKinney points out that a jury did not find the aggravating circumstances, as is now required by Ring and Hurst.

															The hurdle is that McKinney’s case became final on direct review in 1996, long before Ring and Hurst.  Ring and Hurst do not apply retroactively on collateral review.  See Schriro v. Summerlin,

542 U.S. 348, 358 (2004).  Because this case comes to us on state collateral review, Ring and Hurst do not apply.

															McKinney says, however, that this case has a twist.  He asserts that the Arizona Supreme Court’s 2018 decision reweighing the aggravators and mitigators constituted a re- opening of direct review.  Because this case (as McKinney sees it) is again on direct review, McKinney argues that he should receive the benefit of Ring and Hurst—namely, a jury resentencing with a jury determination of aggravating circumstances.

															But the premise of that argument is wrong because the Arizona Supreme Court’s reweighing of the aggravating and mitigating circumstances occurred on collateral review, not direct review.  In conducting the reweighing, the Arizona Supreme Court explained that it was conducting an independent review in a collateral proceeding.  The court cited its prior decision in State v. Styers, 227 Ariz. 186, 254 P.3d 1132 (2011), which concluded that Arizona could conduct such an independent review in a collateral proceeding.  See also Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13–755 (2010); State v. Hedlund, 245 Ariz. 467, 470–471, 431 P.3d 181, 184–185 (2018).  Under these circumstances, we may not second-guess the Arizona Supreme Court’s characterization of state law.  See Mullaney v. Wilbur,

421 U.S. 684, 691 (1975); see also Jimenez v. Quarterman,

555 U.S. 113, 120, n. 4 (2009); Styers v. Ryan, 811 F.3d 292, 297, n. 5 (CA9 2015).  As a matter of state law, the reweighing proceeding in McKinney’s case occurred on collateral review.

															McKinney responds that the state label of collateral review cannot control the finality question; that a Clemons reweighing is a sentencing proceeding; and that a Clemons reweighing therefore may occur only on direct review (or on reopening of direct review).  But Clemons itself, over a vigorous dissent, stated that an appellate reweighing is not a sentencing proceeding that must be conducted by a jury.  See 494 U. S., at 741, 744–755.  The appellate reweighing is akin to harmless-error review.  Courts routinely conduct harmless-error review in collateral proceedings.  Cf., e.g., Brecht v. Abrahamson,

507 U.S. 619, 638 (1993).  There is no good reason—and McKinney supplies none—why state courts may not likewise conduct a Clemons reweighing on collateral review.  As relevant here, when an Eddings error is found on collateral review, a state court may conduct a Clemons reweighing on collateral review.[1]*  Here, therefore, the Arizona Supreme Court permissibly conducted a Clemons reweighing on collateral review.

															*  *  *

															This Court’s precedents establish that state appellate courts may conduct a Clemons reweighing of aggravating and mitigating circumstances, and may do so in collateral proceedings as appropriate and provided under state law.  We affirm the judgment of the Arizona Supreme Court.

															

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
*Moreover, the District Court’s conditional writ in this case merely required Arizona to correct a purported Eddings error.  As we have explained, an Eddings error may be remedied on appeal or on collateral review.  Our holding here does not suggest that a State, by use of a collateral label, may conduct a new trial proceeding in violation of current constitutional standards. 


