::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-014
::decision_cite:: 18-1259
::decision_name::  Jones v. Mississippi
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–1259

															_________________

															BRETT JONES, PETITIONER v. MISSISSIPPI

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeals of mississippi

															[April 22, 2021]

															

															Justice Kavanaugh delivered the opinion of the Court.

															Under Miller v. Alabama,

567 U.S. 460 (2012), an individual who commits a homicide when he or she is under 18 may be sentenced to life without parole, but only if the sentence is not mandatory and the sentencer therefore has discretion to impose a lesser punishment.  In this case, a Mississippi trial judge acknowledged his sentencing discretion under Miller and then sentenced petitioner Brett Jones to life without parole for a murder that Jones committed when he was under 18.  The Mississippi Court of Appeals affirmed, concluding that the discretionary sentencing procedure satisfied Miller.

															Jones argues, however, that a sentencer’s discretion to impose a sentence less than life without parole does not alone satisfy Miller.  Jones contends that a sentencer who imposes a life-without-parole sentence must also make a separate factual finding that the defendant is permanently incorrigible, or at least provide an on-the-record sentencing explanation with an implicit finding that the defendant is permanently incorrigible.  And Jones says that the trial judge did not make such a finding in his case.

															Jones’s argument that the sentencer must make a finding of permanent incorrigibility is inconsistent with the Court’s precedents.  In Miller, the Court mandated “only that a sentencer follow a certain process—considering an offender’s youth and attendant characteristics—before imposing” a life-without-parole sentence.  Id., at 483.  And in Montgomery v. Louisiana, which held that Miller applies retroactively on collateral review, the Court flatly stated that “Miller did not impose a formal factfinding requirement” and added that “a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility . . . is not required.”

577 U.S. 190, 211 (2016).  In light of that explicit language in the Court’s prior decisions, we must reject Jones’s argument.  We affirm the judgment of the Mississippi Court of Appeals.

															I

															A

															In August 2004, Brett Jones was living with his grandparents, Bertis and Madge, in Shannon, Mississippi.  Shannon is a small town of about 2,000 in northern Mississippi near Tupelo, about halfway between Memphis and Birmingham off I–22.

															At the time, Jones was only 15 years old.  On the morning of August 9, 2004, Bertis discovered Jones’s girlfriend, Michelle Austin, in Jones’s bedroom.  Bertis and Jones got into an argument, and Bertis ordered Austin out of the house.  A few hours later, Jones told Austin that he “ ‘was going to hurt’ ” his grandfather.  938 So. 2d 312, 314 (Miss. App. 2006).

															That afternoon, Jones was in the kitchen making himself something to eat.  Jones and Bertis began arguing again.  The clash escalated from shouts to shoves to punches.  Jones then stabbed his grandfather with a kitchen knife.  When that knife broke, Jones picked up a second knife and continued stabbing Bertis.  In total, Jones stabbed his grandfather eight times.

															Bleeding profusely, Bertis staggered outside, fell to the ground, and died.  Jones did not call 911.  Instead, he haphazardly attempted to cover up his role in the murder.  He dragged Bertis’s body back inside.  Jones then washed the blood off his arms with a water hose, changed out of his bloody shirt, and moved Bertis’s car over some blood stains on the carport floor.

															While Jones was outside, he was seen by a neighbor.  The neighbor called the police.  Shortly thereafter, another neighbor saw Jones and Austin leaving the house together on foot.  Later that night, police located Jones and Austin at a gas station several miles away.  When questioned, Jones and Austin provided fake names to the officer.  After a police pat down revealed a knife in Jones’s pocket, the officer asked Jones whether it was the knife that he “ ‘did it with.’ ”  Id., at 315.  Jones responded, “ ‘No, I already got rid of it.’ ”  Ibid.

															B

															Jones was charged with murder.  The trial judge instructed the jury on murder and the lesser included offense of manslaughter.  Jones claimed that he was not guilty because he acted in self-defense.  The jury rejected that defense and found Jones guilty of murder.

															Under Mississippi law at the time, murder carried a mandatory sentence of life without parole.  Miss. Code Ann. §97–3–21 (2000), §47–7–3(g) (2004); see Parker v. State, 119 So. 3d 987, 996–997 (Miss. 2013).  The trial judge therefore imposed that sentence.  In 2006, the Mississippi Court of Appeals affirmed.  See 938 So. 2d 312.

															Jones later moved for post-conviction relief in state court, asserting among other things that his mandatory life-without-parole sentence violated the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause of the
 
Eighth Amendment.  The trial court denied the motion, and the Mississippi Court of Appeals affirmed.  See 122 So. 3d 725 (2011).

															In 2012, while the Mississippi Supreme Court was considering whether to review Jones’s case, this Court decided Miller v. Alabama,

567 U.S. 460.  Miller held that the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause of the
 
Eighth Amendment prohibits mandatory life-without-parole sentences for murderers under 18, but the Court allowed discretionary life-without-parole sentences for those offenders.

															In the wake of Miller, the Mississippi Supreme Court concluded that Miller applied retroactively on state collateral review.  In Jones’s case, the State Supreme Court ordered a new sentencing hearing where the sentencing judge could consider Jones’s youth and exercise discretion in selecting an appropriate sentence.  See 122 So. 3d 698 (2013).

															At the resentencing, Jones’s attorney argued that Jones’s “chronological age and its hallmark features” diminished the “penological justifications for imposing the harshest sentences.”  App. 25, 27 (quoting Miller, 567 U. S., at 472, 477; emphasis deleted).  Jones’s attorney added that “nothing in this record . . . would support a finding that the offense reflects irreparable corruption.”  App. 143–144.

															At the end of the hearing, the sentencing judge acknowledged that he had discretion under Miller to impose a sentence less than life without parole.  But after considering the factors “relevant to the child’s culpability,” App. 149, the judge determined that life without parole remained the appropriate sentence for Jones, id., at 152.

															Jones appealed his sentence to the Mississippi Court of Appeals, citing both Miller and the then-recently decided case of Montgomery v. Louisiana,

577 U.S. 190 (2016), which in the interim had held that Miller applied retroactively on collateral review.  According to Jones, in order to impose a life-without-parole sentence on a defendant who committed a murder when he or she was under 18, the sentencer must make a separate factual finding that the defendant is permanently incorrigible.  The Mississippi Court of Appeals rejected Jones’s argument, relying on this Court’s express statement in Montgomery that “ ‘Miller did not require trial courts to make a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility.’ ”  285 So. 3d 626, 632 (2017) (quoting Montgomery, 577 U. S., at 211).

															In light of disagreement in state and federal courts about how to interpret Miller and Montgomery, we granted certiorari.  589 U. S. ___ (2020). Compare, e.g., Malvo v. Mathena, 893 F.3d 265 (CA4 2018), Commonwealth v. Batts, 640 Pa. 401, 163 A.3d 410 (2017), and Veal v. State, 298 Ga. 691, 784 S.E.2d 403 (2016), with, e.g., United States v. Sparks, 941 F.3d 748 (CA5 2019), People v. Skinner, 502 Mich. 89, 917 N.W.2d 292 (2018), and State v. Ramos, 187 Wash. 2d 420, 387 P.3d 650 (2017).

															II

															According to Jones, a sentencer’s discretion to impose a sentence less than life without parole does not alone satisfy Miller.  In Jones’s view, a sentencer who imposes a life-without-parole sentence must also either (i) make a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility, or (ii) at least provide an on-the-record sentencing explanation with an “implicit finding” of permanent incorrigibility.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 32; see id., at 6, 14.

															As we will explain, the Court has already ruled that a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility is not required.  In Montgomery, the Court unequivocally stated that “Miller did not impose a formal factfinding requirement” and added that “a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility . . . is not required.”  577 U. S., at 211.  In a case involving an individual who was under 18 when he or she committed a homicide, a State’s discretionary sentencing system is both constitutionally necessary and constitutionally sufficient.[1]

															A

															In 2004, the year that Jones murdered his grandfather, about 16,000 individuals committed a homicide in the United States.  See Dept. of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Crime in the United States 2004, Murder Offenders by Age, Sex, and Race 17 (Table 2.5).  About 850 of the individuals who committed a homicide were known to be under 18—meaning that, on average, more than two homicides were committed every day by individuals under 18.  Ibid.

															The States authorize strict punishments for homicide, including for homicides committed by individuals under 18.  But this Court has held that sentencing an offender who was under 18 at the time of the crime raises special constitutional considerations.

															Ratified in 1791, the
 
Eighth Amendment provides that “cruel and unusual punishments” shall not be “inflicted.”  Ratified in 1868, the
 
Fourteenth Amendment incorporates the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause against the States.

															In a series of
 
Eighth Amendment cases applying the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause, this Court has stated that youth matters in sentencing.  In Roper v. Simmons,

543 U.S. 551 (2005), the Court concluded that the
 
Eighth Amendment prohibits capital punishment for murderers who were under 18 at the time of their crimes.  And in Graham v. Florida,

560 U.S. 48 (2010), the Court held that the
 
Eighth Amendment prohibits life without parole for offenders who were under 18 and committed non- homicide offenses.  Importantly, however, Graham did not prohibit life without parole for offenders who were under 18 and committed homicide.  The Graham Court stated: “There is a line between homicide and other serious violent offenses against the individual.”  Id., at 69 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															And then in Miller in 2012, the Court allowed life-without-parole sentences for defendants who committed homicide when they were under 18, but only so long as the sentence is not mandatory—that is, only so long as the sentencer has discretion to “consider the mitigating qualities of youth” and impose a lesser punishment.  567 U. S., at 476 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Four years later, Montgomery held that Miller applied retroactively to cases on collateral review.  577 U. S., at 206, 212.

															Jones argues that Miller requires more than just a discretionary sentencing procedure.  According to Jones, the sentencer must also make a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility before sentencing a murderer under 18 to life without parole.

															The problem for Jones is that Miller and Montgomery squarely rejected such a requirement.  Miller mandated “only that a sentencer follow a certain process—considering an offender’s youth and attendant characteristics—before imposing” a life-without-parole sentence.  567 U. S., at 483.  Montgomery then flatly stated that “Miller did not impose a formal factfinding requirement” and that “a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility . . . is not required.”  577 U. S., at 211.[2]

															Notwithstanding that clear language in Miller and Montgomery, Jones advances three distinct arguments for why this Court should require a sentencer to make a finding of permanent incorrigibility before sentencing a murderer under 18 to life without parole.

															First, Jones analogizes to cases where the Court has recognized certain eligibility criteria, such as sanity or a lack of intellectual disability, that must be met before an offender can be sentenced to death.  See Ford v. Wainwright,

477 U.S. 399 (1986); Atkins v. Virginia,

536 U.S. 304 (2002).  Jones argues that the Constitution similarly requires a sentencer to find permanent incorrigibility before sentencing a murderer under 18 to life without parole.

															The State responds that permanent incorrigibility is not an eligibility criterion akin to sanity or a lack of intellectual disability.  We agree with the State.  For one thing, the Court has recognized that it “is difficult even for expert psychologists to differentiate between the juvenile offender whose crime reflects unfortunate yet transient immaturity, and the rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects irreparable corruption.”  Roper, 543 U. S., at 573.  In addition, when the Court has established such an eligibility criterion, the Court has considered whether “ ‘objective indicia of society’s standards, as expressed in legislative enactments and state practice,’ ” demonstrated a “national consensus” in favor of the criterion.  Graham, 560 U. S., at 61 (quoting Roper, 543 U. S., at 563).  But Miller did not identify a single State that, as of that time, made permanent incorrigibility an eligibility criterion for life-without-parole sentences imposed on murderers under 18.

															Given those two points, it comes as no surprise that Miller declined to characterize permanent incorrigibility as such an eligibility criterion.  Rather, Miller repeatedly described youth as a sentencing factor akin to a mitigating circumstance.  And Miller in turn required a sentencing procedure similar to the procedure that this Court has required for the individualized consideration of mitigating circumstances in capital cases such as Woodson v. North Carolina,

428 U.S. 280, 303–305 (1976) (plurality opinion), Lockett v. Ohio,

438 U.S. 586, 597–609 (1978) (plurality opinion), and Eddings v. Oklahoma,

455 U.S. 104, 113–115 (1982).  Those capital cases require sentencers to consider relevant mitigating circumstances when deciding whether to impose the death penalty.  And those cases afford sentencers wide discretion in determining “the weight to be given relevant mitigating evidence.”  Id., at 114–115.  But those cases do not require the sentencer to make any particular factual finding regarding those mitigating circumstances.

															Repeatedly citing Woodson, Lockett, and Eddings, the Miller Court stated that “a judge or jury must have the opportunity to consider” the defendant’s youth and must have “discretion to impose a different punishment” than life without parole.  567 U. S., at 489; id., at 465; see id., at 470, 476, 483.  Stated otherwise, the Miller Court mandated “only that a sentencer follow a certain process—considering an offender’s youth and attendant characteristics—before imposing” a life-without-parole sentence.  Id., at 483.  In that process, the sentencer will consider the murderer’s “diminished culpability and heightened capacity for change.”  Id., at 479.  That sentencing procedure ensures that the sentencer affords individualized “consideration” to, among other things, the defendant’s “chronological age and its hallmark features.”  Id., at 477.

															To be sure, Miller also cited Roper and Graham.  567 U. S., at 471–475.  Roper barred capital punishment for offenders under 18.  And Graham barred life without parole for offenders under 18 who committed non-homicide offenses.  But Miller did not cite those cases to require a finding of permanent incorrigibility or to impose a categorical bar against life without parole for murderers under 18.  We know that because Miller said so: “Our decision does not categorically bar a penalty for a class of offenders or type of crime—as, for example, we did in Roper or Graham.”  567 U. S., at 483.  Instead, Miller cited Roper and Graham for a simple proposition: Youth matters in sentencing.  And because youth matters, Miller held that a sentencer must have discretion to consider youth before imposing a life-without-parole sentence, just as a capital sentencer must have discretion to consider other mitigating factors before imposing a death sentence.

															In short, Miller followed the Court’s many death penalty cases and required that a sentencer consider youth as a mitigating factor when deciding whether to impose a life-without-parole sentence.  Miller did not require the sentencer to make a separate finding of permanent incorrigibility before imposing such a sentence.  And Montgomery did not purport to add to Miller’s requirements.[3]

															Second, Jones contends that the Montgomery Court must nonetheless have assumed that a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility was necessary because Montgomery deemed Miller a substantive holding for purposes of applying Miller retroactively on collateral review.  See Teague v. Lane,

489 U.S. 288, 310–311 (1989) (plurality opinion).

															In advancing that argument, Jones relies on language in Montgomery that described Miller as permitting life-without-parole sentences only for “those whose crimes reflect permanent incorrigibility,” rather than “transient immaturity.”  577 U. S., at 209.  In other words, because the Montgomery Court deemed Miller to be a substantive holding, and because Montgomery said that life without parole would be reserved for the permanently incorrigible, Jones argues that the Montgomery Court must have envisioned a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility, not just a discretionary sentencing procedure where youth would be considered.

															That is an incorrect interpretation of Miller and Montgomery.  We know as much because Montgomery said as much.  To reiterate, the Montgomery Court explicitly stated that “a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility . . . is not required.”  577 U. S., at 211.

															To break it down further: Miller required a discretionary sentencing procedure.  The Court stated that a mandatory life-without-parole sentence for an offender under 18 “poses too great a risk of disproportionate punishment.”  567 U. S., at 479.    Despite the procedural function of Miller’s rule, Montgomery held that the Miller rule was substantive for retroactivity purposes and therefore applied retroactively on collateral review.  577 U. S., at 206, 212.[4]  But in making the rule retroactive, the Montgomery Court unsurprisingly declined to impose new requirements not already imposed by Miller.  As Montgomery itself explained, the Court granted certiorari in that case not to consider whether the rule announced in Miller should be expanded, but rather simply to decide whether Miller’s “holding is retroactive to juvenile offenders whose convictions and sentences were final when Miller was decided.”  577 U. S., at 194.  On the question of what Miller required, Montgomery was clear: “A hearing where youth and its attendant characteristics are considered as sentencing factors is necessary to separate those juveniles who may be sentenced to life without parole from those who may not.”  Id., at 210 (internal quotation marks omitted).  But a separate finding of permanent incorrigibility “is not required.”  Id., at 211.

															The key assumption of both Miller and Montgomery was that discretionary sentencing allows the sentencer to consider the defendant’s youth, and thereby helps ensure that life-without-parole sentences are imposed only in cases where that sentence is appropriate in light of the defendant’s age.  If the Miller or Montgomery Court wanted to require sentencers to also make a factual finding of permanent incorrigibility, the Court easily could have said so—and surely would have said so.  But the Court did not say that, or anything like it.  On the contrary, the Montgomery Court declared just the opposite: that the sentencer need not make such a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility.

															In short, Jones’s Montgomery-based argument for requiring a finding of permanent incorrigibility is unavailing because Montgomery explicitly stated that “Miller did not impose a formal factfinding requirement” and that “a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility . . . is not required.”  Montgomery, 577 U. S., at 211.

															Third, Jones relatedly argues that Miller and Montgomery sought to ensure that life without parole for murderers under 18 would be relatively rare.  According to Jones, a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility is necessary to achieve that goal.

															But in Miller, the Court stated that a discretionary sentencing procedure—where the sentencer can consider the defendant’s youth and has discretion to impose a lesser sentence than life without parole—would itself help make life-without-parole sentences “relatively rar[e ]” for murderers under 18.  567 U. S., at 484, n. 10.

															Importantly, in concluding that a discretionary sentencing procedure would help make life-without-parole sentences relatively rare, the Court relied on data, not speculation.  The Court pointed to statistics from 15 States that used discretionary sentencing regimes to show that, “when given the choice, sentencers impose life without parole on children relatively rarely.”  Ibid.[5]  In light of those statistics, the Court reasoned that a discretionary sentencing procedure would make life-without-parole sentences relatively rare for juvenile offenders.  But the Court did not suggest that the States with discretionary sentencing regimes also required a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility, or that such a finding was necessary to make life-without-parole sentences for juvenile offenders relatively rare.  Therefore, to remain true to Miller’s reasoning, we cannot now require a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility.  (Moreover, to reiterate, Montgomery explicitly stated that such a finding is not required.)

															In sum, the Court has unequivocally stated that a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility is not required before a sentencer imposes a life-without-parole sentence on a murderer under 18.  To borrow the apt words of the Michigan Supreme Court: “Given that Montgomery expressly held that ‘Miller did not require trial courts to make a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility,’ we likewise hold that Miller does not require trial courts to make a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility.”  People v. Skinner, 502 Mich. 89, 122, 917 N.W.2d 292, 309 (2018) (citation omitted).

															B

															Even if a separate factual finding of permanent incorrigibility is not required, Jones alternatively contends that a sentencer must at least provide an on-the-record sentencing explanation with an “implicit finding” of permanent incorrigibility.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 32; see id., at 6, 14.  Jones argues that such an explanation is necessary to ensure that the sentencer actually considers the defendant’s youth.  And Jones further asserts that the sentencing judge did not provide such an explanation at his resentencing.

															We reject Jones’s alternative argument because an on-the-record sentencing explanation with an implicit finding of permanent incorrigibility (i) is not necessary to ensure that a sentencer considers a defendant’s youth, (ii) is not required by or consistent with Miller, (iii) is not required by or consistent with this Court’s analogous death penalty precedents, and (iv) is not dictated by any consistent historical or contemporary sentencing practice in the States.

															First, and most fundamentally, an on-the-record sentencing explanation is not necessary to ensure that a sentencer considers a defendant’s youth.  Jones’s argument to the contrary rests on the assumption that meaningful daylight exists between (i) a sentencer’s discretion to consider youth, and (ii) the sentencer’s actual consideration of youth.  But if the sentencer has discretion to consider the defendant’s youth, the sentencer necessarily will consider the defendant’s youth, especially if defense counsel advances an argument based on the defendant’s youth.  Faced with a convicted murderer who was under 18 at the time of the offense and with defense arguments focused on the defendant’s youth, it would be all but impossible for a sentencer to avoid considering that mitigating factor.[6]

															It is true that one sentencer may weigh the defendant’s youth differently than another sentencer or an appellate court would, given the mix of all the facts and circumstances in a specific case.  Some sentencers may decide that a defendant’s youth supports a sentence less than life without parole.  Other sentencers presented with the same facts might decide that life without parole remains appropriate despite the defendant’s youth.  But the key point remains that, in a case involving a murderer under 18, a sentencer cannot avoid considering the defendant’s youth if the sentencer has discretion to consider that mitigating factor.[7]

															Second, turning to precedent, an on-the-record sentencing explanation with an implicit finding of permanent incorrigibility is not required by or consistent with Miller.  The Court’s thorough opinion in Miller did not even hint at requiring an on-the-record sentencing explanation with an implicit finding of permanent incorrigibility.  Miller highlighted 15 existing discretionary state sentencing systems as examples of what was missing in the mandatory Alabama regime before the Court in that case.  567 U. S., at 484, n. 10.  As the Court explained, those discretionary sentencing regimes ensured individualized consideration of youth.

															But the Court did not suggest that those discretionary sentencing regimes required some kind of sentencing explanation.  Again, if the Miller Court believed that a sentencing explanation with an implicit finding of permanent incorrigibility was constitutionally necessary, the Court easily could have and surely would have said so.  But Miller did not say a word about requiring some kind of particular sentencing explanation with an implicit finding of permanent incorrigibility, as Montgomery later confirmed.

															Third, and just as telling, an on-the-record sentencing explanation with an implicit finding of permanent incorrigibility is not required by or consistent with this Court’s death penalty cases.  Those cases demonstrate that an on-the-record sentencing explanation is not necessary to ensure that the sentencer considers relevant mitigating circumstances.

															In a series of capital cases over the past 45 years, the Court has required the sentencer to consider mitigating circumstances when deciding whether to impose the death penalty.  See Woodson, 428 U. S., at 303–305 (plurality opinion); Lockett, 438 U. S., at 597–609 (plurality opinion); Eddings, 455 U. S., at 113–115; see also Tennard v. Dretke,

542 U.S. 274, 285 (2004); Penry v. Lynaugh,

492 U.S. 302, 318–319 (1989).

															But the Court has never required an on-the-record sentencing explanation or an implicit finding regarding those mitigating circumstances.  The reason is evident: Under the discretionary death penalty sentencing procedure required by cases such as Woodson, Lockett, and Eddings, the sentencer will necessarily consider relevant mitigating circumstances.  A sentencing explanation is not necessary to ensure that the sentencer in death penalty cases considers the relevant mitigating circumstances.  It follows that a sentencing explanation is likewise not necessary to ensure that the sentencer in juvenile life-without-parole cases considers the defendant’s youth.

															Because the Constitution does not require an on-the- record explanation of mitigating circumstances by the sentencer in death penalty cases, it would be incongruous to require an on-the-record explanation of the mitigating circumstance of youth by the sentencer in life-without-parole cases.  Jones offers no persuasive answer for that incongruity in his argument.

															Fourth, an on-the-record sentencing explanation with an implicit finding of permanent incorrigibility is not dictated by any historical or contemporary sentencing practice in the States.  To be sure, when a state judge imposes a sentence of imprisonment, particularly a lengthy sentence, the judge often will explain both the sentence and the judge’s evaluation of any mitigating circumstances.  But many States traditionally have not legally required (and some States still do not legally require) on-the-record explanations by the sentencer.  See, e.g., A. Campbell, Law of Sentencing §10:5, pp. 473–480 (3d ed. 2004) (hereinafter Campbell).  Indeed, in some States, the jury is the sentencer for certain kinds of crimes, and juries typically do not supply sentencing explanations.  See generally King & Noble, Felony Jury Sentencing in Practice: A Three-State Study, 57 Vand. L. Rev. 885 (2004).  Even when state law requires a sentencer to supply reasons, many States do not impose a formulaic checklist of topics or a magic-words requirement with respect to particular mitigating circumstances.  And appellate courts do not necessarily reverse merely because the sentencer could have said more about mitigating circumstances.  See Campbell 477; 22A Cal. Jur. 3d, Crim. Law: Posttrial Proceedings §408, p. 234 (2017) (“[U]nless the record affirmatively reflects otherwise, the trial court will be deemed to have considered the relevant criteria, such as mitigating circumstances, enumerated in the sentencing rules”).

															Those state practices matter here because, as the Court explained in Montgomery, when “a new substantive rule of constitutional law is established, this Court is careful to limit the scope of any attendant procedural requirement to avoid intruding more than necessary upon the States’ sovereign administration of their criminal justice systems.”  577 U. S., at 211.  So it is here.  Because Montgomery directs us to “avoid intruding more than necessary” upon the States, ibid., and because a discretionary sentencing procedure suffices to ensure individualized consideration of a defendant’s youth, we should not now add still more procedural requirements.

															In sum, Jones’s alternative argument fails.  The Court’s precedents do not require an on-the-record sentencing explanation with an implicit finding of permanent incorrigibility.

															III

															The Court’s decision today carefully follows both Miller and Montgomery.  The dissent nonetheless claims that we are somehow implicitly overruling those decisions.  We respectfully but firmly disagree: Today’s decision does not overrule Miller or Montgomery.  Miller held that a State may not impose a mandatory life-without-parole sentence on a murderer under 18.  Today’s decision does not disturb that holding.  Montgomery later held that Miller applies retroactively on collateral review.  Today’s decision likewise does not disturb that holding.  

															We simply have a good-faith disagreement with the dissent over how to interpret Miller and Montgomery.  That kind of debate over how to interpret relevant precedents is commonplace.  Here, the dissent thinks that we are unduly narrowing Miller and Montgomery.  And we, by contrast, think that the dissent would unduly broaden those decisions.  The dissent draws inferences about what, in the dissent’s view, Miller and Montgomery “must have done” in order for the decisions to “make any sense.”  Post, at 12 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.).  We instead rely on what Miller and Montgomery said—that is, their explicit language addressing the precise question before us and definitively rejecting any requirement of a finding of permanent incorrigibility.

															Notwithstanding our disagreement about whether Miller and Montgomery require a finding of permanent incorrigibility, we and the dissent both recognize that Miller and Montgomery have been consequential.  Miller’s discretionary sentencing procedure has resulted in numerous sentences less than life without parole for defendants who otherwise would have received mandatory life-without-parole sentences.  For example, in Miller resentencings in Mississippi where Jones was convicted and sentenced, Miller has reduced life-without-parole sentences for murderers under 18 by about 75 percent.  See The Campaign for the Fair Sentencing of Youth, Tipping Point: A Majority of States Abandon Life-Without-Parole Sentences for Children 7 (2018).  Those statistics bear out Miller’s prediction: A discretionary sentencing procedure has indeed helped make life-without-parole sentences for offenders under 18 “relatively rar[e ].”  567 U. S., at 484, n. 10.

															Moreover, as a result of Montgomery, many homicide offenders under 18 who received life-without-parole sentences that were final before Miller have now obtained new sentencing proceedings and have been sentenced to less than life without parole.

															Despite the significant changes wrought by Miller and Montgomery, the dissent now wants more—an additional constitutional requirement that the sentencer must make a finding of permanent incorrigibility before sentencing a murderer under 18 to life without parole.  But to reiterate, in Miller and Montgomery, the Court unequivocally stated that such a finding is not required.  And we will not now rewrite those decisions to impose a requirement that the Court twice rejected.

															To be clear, our ruling on the legal issue presented here should not be construed as agreement or disagreement with the sentence imposed against Jones.  As this case again demonstrates, any homicide, and particularly a homicide committed by an individual under 18, is a horrific tragedy for all involved and for all affected.  Determining the proper sentence in such a case raises profound questions of morality and social policy.  The States, not the federal courts, make those broad moral and policy judgments in the first instance when enacting their sentencing laws.  And state sentencing judges and juries then determine the proper sentence in individual cases in light of the facts and circumstances of the offense, and the background of the offender.

															Under our precedents, this Court’s more limited role is to safeguard the limits imposed by the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause of the
 
Eighth Amendment.  The Court’s precedents require a discretionary sentencing procedure in a case of this kind.  The resentencing in Jones’s case complied with those precedents because the sentence was not mandatory and the trial judge had discretion to impose a lesser punishment in light of Jones’s youth.  Moreover, this case does not properly present—and thus we do not consider—any as-applied
 
Eighth Amendment claim of disproportionality regarding Jones’s sentence.  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 23; Harmelin v. Michigan,

501 U.S. 957, 996–1009 (1991) (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).

															Importantly, like Miller and Montgomery, our holding today does not preclude the States from imposing additional sentencing limits in cases involving defendants under 18 convicted of murder.  States may categorically prohibit life without parole for all offenders under 18.  Or States may require sentencers to make extra factual findings before sentencing an offender under 18 to life without parole.  Or States may direct sentencers to formally explain on the record why a life-without-parole sentence is appropriate notwithstanding the defendant’s youth.  States may also establish rigorous proportionality or other substantive appellate review of life-without-parole sentences.  All of those options, and others, remain available to the States.  See generally J. Sutton, 51 Imperfect Solutions (2018).  Indeed, many States have recently adopted one or more of those reforms.  See, e.g., Brief for Former West Virginia Delegate John Ellem et al. as Amici Curiae in Mathena v. Malvo, O. T. 2019, No. 18–217, pp. 29–36.  But the U. S. Constitution, as this Court’s precedents have interpreted it, does not demand those particular policy approaches.

															Finally, our holding today is far from the last word on whether Jones will receive relief from his sentence.  Jones contends that he has maintained a good record in prison and that he is a different person now than he was when he killed his grandfather.  He articulates several moral and policy arguments for why he should not be forced to spend the rest of his life in prison.  Our decision allows Jones to present those arguments to the state officials authorized to act on them, such as the state legislature, state courts, or Governor.  Those state avenues for sentencing relief remain open to Jones, and they will remain open to him for years to come.

															*  *  *

															We affirm the judgment of the Mississippi Court of Appeals.

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
 Both Miller and Montgomery generated vigorous dissents.  The dissents in Miller stated that the
 
Eighth Amendment does not prohibit mandatory life-without-parole sentences and asserted that the Court’s decision contravened this Court’s precedents.  See 567 U. S., at 493–502 (Roberts, C. J., dissenting); id., at 502–509 (Thomas, J., dissenting); id., at 509–515 (Alito, J., dissenting).  The lead dissent in Montgomery argued that Miller should not apply retroactively on collateral review.  577 U. S., at 224–227 (Scalia, J., dissenting). 

2
 The key paragraph from Montgomery is as follows: “Louisiana suggests that Miller cannot have made a constitutional distinction between children whose crimes reflect transient immaturity and those whose crimes reflect irreparable corruption because Miller did not require trial courts to make a finding of fact regarding a child’s incorrigibility.  That this finding is not required, however, speaks only to the degree of procedure Miller mandated in order to implement its substantive guarantee.  When a new substantive rule of constitutional law is established, this Court is careful to limit the scope of any attendant procedural requirement to avoid intruding more than necessary upon the States’ sovereign administration of their criminal justice systems.  See Ford v. Wainwright,

477 U.S. 399, 416–417 (1986) (“[W]e leave to the State[s] the task of developing appropriate ways to enforce the constitutional restriction upon [their] execution of sentences”).  Fidelity to this important principle of federalism, however, should not be construed to demean the substantive character of the federal right at issue.  That Miller did not impose a formal factfinding requirement does not leave States free to sentence a child whose crime reflects transient immaturity to life without parole.  To the contrary, Miller established that this punishment is disproportionate under the
 
Eighth Amendment.”  577 U. S., at 211. 

3
 If permanent incorrigibility were a factual prerequisite to a life-without-parole sentence, this Court’s
 
Sixth Amendment precedents might require that a jury, not a judge, make such a finding.  See Ring v. Arizona,

536 U.S. 584 (2002); Apprendi v. New Jersey,

530 U.S. 466 (2000).  If we were to rule for Jones here, the next wave of litigation would likely concern the scope of the jury right.  The fact that neither Miller nor Montgomery even mentioned the
 
Sixth Amendment is further reason to doubt that those cases implicitly required a finding of permanent incorrigibility by the sentencer. 

4
 As the Court has stated in cases both before and after Montgomery, the Court determines whether a rule is substantive or procedural for retroactivity purposes “by considering the function of the rule” itself—not “by asking whether the constitutional right underlying the new rule is substantive or procedural.”  Welch v. United States,

578 U.S. 120, 130–131 (2016).  For purposes of Teague v. Lane,

489 U.S. 288 (1989), a rule is procedural if it regulates “ ‘only the manner of determining the defendant’s culpability.’ ” Welch, 578 U. S., at 129 (quoting Schriro v. Summerlin,

542 U.S. 348, 353 (2004); emphasis deleted).  A rule is substantive and applies retroactively on collateral review, by contrast, if it “ ‘alters the range of conduct or the class of persons that the law punishes.’ ”  Welch, 578 U. S., at 129 (quoting Summerlin, 542 U. S., at 353).  As the Court’s post-Montgomery decision in Welch already indicates, to the extent that Montgomery’s application of the Teague standard is in tension with the Court’s retroactivity precedents that both pre-date and post-date Montgomery, those retroactivity precedents—and not Montgomery—must guide the determination of whether rules other than Miller are substantive.  See Welch,

578 U.S. 120; Summerlin,

542 U.S. 348; Lambrix v. Singletary,

520 U.S. 518 (1997); Saffle v. Parks,

494 U.S. 484 (1990).  To be clear, however, our decision today does not disturb Montgomery’s holding that Miller applies retroactively on collateral review.  By now, most offenders who could seek collateral review as a result of Montgomery have done so and, if eligible, have received new discretionary sentences under Miller. 

5
 See Cal. Penal Code Ann. §190.5 (West 2014); Ga. Code Ann. §16–5–1 (2011), §17–10–31 (2013); Ind. Code §35–50–2–3 (2009); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 17–A, §1251 (2006); Md. Crim. Law Code Ann. §§2–201 to 2–203, 2–304 (2012); Nev. Rev. Stat. §200.030 (2012); N. M. Stat. Ann. §§31–18–13, 31–18–14, 31–18–15.2 (2010); N. D. Cent. Code Ann. §§12.1–32–01, 12.1–32–09.1 (2012); Okla. Stat., Tit. 21, §§13.1, 701.9 (2011); R. I. Gen. Laws §11–23–2 (2002); S. C. Code Ann. §16–3–20 (2015); Tenn. Code Ann. §§39–13–202, 39–13–204, 39–13–207 (2018); Utah Code §§76–3–206, 76–3–207 (2012); W. Va. Code Ann. §62–3–15 (Lexis 2014); Wis. Stat. §939.50 (2005), §973.014 (2007). 

6
 If defense counsel fails to make the sentencer aware of the defendant’s youth, it is theoretically conceivable (albeit still exceedingly unlikely in the real world) that the sentencer might somehow not be aware of the defendant’s youth.  But in that highly unlikely scenario, the defendant may have a potential ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim, not a Miller claim—just as defense counsel’s failure to raise relevant mitigating circumstances in a death penalty sentencing proceeding can constitute a potential ineffective-assistance-of-counsel problem, not a Woodson/Lockett/Eddings violation.  Cf. Wiggins v. Smith,

539 U.S. 510, 533–538 (2003) (counsel in capital case was ineffective for failing to investigate and present mitigating evidence at sentencing); Williams v. Taylor,

529 U.S. 362, 395–398 (2000) (same). 

7
 This Court’s death penalty cases recognize a potential
 
Eighth Amendment claim if the sentencer expressly refuses as a matter of law to consider relevant mitigating circumstances.  See Eddings v. Oklahoma,

455 U.S. 104, 114–115 (1982).  By analogy here, if a sentencer considering life without parole for a murderer who was under 18 expressly refuses as a matter of law to consider the defendant’s youth (as opposed to, for example, deeming the defendant’s youth to be outweighed by other factors or deeming the defendant’s youth to be an insufficient reason to support a lesser sentence under the facts of the case), then the defendant might be able to raise an
 
Eighth Amendment claim under the Court’s precedents.  In any event, we need not explore that possibility because the record here does not reflect that the sentencing judge refused as a matter of law to consider Jones’s youth. 


