::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-040
::decision_cite:: 18-1323
::decision_name::  June Medical Services L.L.C. v. Russo
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 18–1323 and 18–1460

															_________________

															JUNE MEDICAL SERVICES L. L. C., et al., PETITIONERS

															18–1323v.

															STEPHEN RUSSO, INTERIM SECRETARY, LOUISIANA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH  AND HOSPITALS

															

															STEPHEN RUSSO, INTERIM SECRETARY, LOUISIANA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH  AND HOSPITALS, PETITIONER

															18–1460v.

															JUNE MEDICAL SERVICES L. L. C., et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 29, 2020]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, concurring in the judgment.

															In July 2013, Texas enacted a law requiring a physician performing an abortion to have “active admitting privileges at a hospital . . . located not further than 30 miles from the location at which the abortion is performed.”  Tex. Health & Safety Code Ann. §171.0031(a)(1)(A) (West Cum. Supp. 2019).  The law caused the number of facilities providing abortions to drop in half.  In Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, 579 U. S. ___ (2016), the Court concluded that Texas’s admitting privileges requirement “places a substantial obstacle in the path of women seeking a previability abortion” and therefore violated the Due Process Clause of the
 
Fourteenth Amendment.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 2) (citing Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey, 

505 U.S. 833, 878 (1992) (plurality opinion)).

															I joined the dissent in Whole Woman’s Health and continue to believe that the case was wrongly decided.  The question today however is not whether Whole Woman’s Health was right or wrong, but whether to adhere to it in deciding the present case.  See Moore v. Texas, 586 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (Roberts, C. J., concurring) (slip op., at 1).

															Today’s case is a challenge from several abortion clinics and providers to a Louisiana law nearly identical to the Texas law struck down four years ago in Whole Woman’s Health.  Just like the Texas law, the Louisiana law requires physicians performing abortions to have “active admitting privileges at a hospital . . . located not further than thirty miles from the location at which the abortion is performed.”  La. Rev. Stat. Ann. §40:1061.10(A)(2)(a) (West Cum. Supp. 2020).  Following a six-day bench trial, the District Court found that Louisiana’s law would “result in a drastic reduction in the number and geographic distribution of abortion providers.”  June Medical Services LLC v. Kliebert, 250 F. Supp. 3d 27, 87 (MD La. 2017).  The law would reduce the number of clinics from three to “one, or at most two,” and the number of physicians providing abortions from five to “one, or at most two,” and “therefore cripple women’s ability to have an abortion in Louisiana.”  Id., at 87–88.

															The legal doctrine of stare decisis requires us, absent special circumstances, to treat like cases alike.  The Louisiana law imposes a burden on access to abortion just as severe as that imposed by the Texas law, for the same reasons.  Therefore Louisiana’s law cannot stand under our precedents.

															I

															Stare decisis (“to stand by things decided”) is the legal term for fidelity to precedent.  Black’s Law Dictionary 1696 (11th ed. 2019).  It has long been “an established rule to abide by former precedents, where the same points come again in litigation; as well to keep the scale of justice even and steady, and not liable to waver with every new judge’s opinion.”  1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 69 (1765).  This principle is grounded in a basic humility that recognizes today’s legal issues are often not so different from the questions of yesterday and that we are not the first ones to try to answer them.  Because the “private stock of reason . . . in each man is small, . . . individuals would do better to avail themselves of the general bank and capital of nations and of ages.”  3 E. Burke, Reflections on the Revolution in France 110 (1790).

															Adherence to precedent is necessary to “avoid an arbitrary discretion in the courts.”  The Federalist No. 78,  p. 529 (J. Cooke ed. 1961) (A. Hamilton).  The constraint of precedent distinguishes the judicial “method and philosophy from those of the political and legislative process.”  Jackson, Decisional Law and Stare Decisis, 30 A. B. A. J.  334 (1944).

															The doctrine also brings pragmatic benefits.  Respect for precedent “promotes the evenhanded, predictable, and consistent development of legal principles, fosters reliance on judicial decisions, and contributes to the actual and perceived integrity of the judicial process.”  Payne v. Tennessee,

501 U.S. 808, 827 (1991).  It is the “means by which we ensure that the law will not merely change erratically, but will develop in a principled and intelligible fashion.”  Vasquez v. Hillery,

474 U.S. 254, 265 (1986).  In that way, “stare decisis is an old friend of the common lawyer.”  Jackson, supra, at 334.

															Stare decisis is not an “inexorable command.”  Ramos v. Louisiana, 590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 20) (internal quotation marks omitted).  But for precedent to mean anything, the doctrine must give way only to a rationale that goes beyond whether the case was decided correctly.  The Court accordingly considers additional factors before overruling a precedent, such as its adminstrability, its fit with subsequent factual and legal developments, and the reliance interests that the precedent has engendered.  See Janus v. State, County, and Municipal Employees, 585 U. S. ___, ____–____ (2018) (slip op., at 34–35).

															Stare decisis principles also determine how we handle a decision that itself departed from the cases that came before it.  In those instances, “[r]emaining true to an ‘intrinsically sounder’ doctrine established in prior cases better serves the values of stare decisis than would following” the recent departure.  Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Peña,

515 U.S. 200, 231 (1995) (plurality opinion).  Stare decisis is pragmatic and contextual, not “a mechanical formula of adherence to the latest decision.”  Helvering v. Hallock,

309 U.S. 106, 119 (1940).

															II

															A

															Both Louisiana and the providers agree that the undue burden standard announced in Casey provides the appropriate framework to analyze Louisiana’s law.  Brief for Petitioners in No. 18–1323, pp. 45–47; Brief for Respondent in No. 18–1323, pp. 60–62.  Neither party has asked us to reassess the constitutional validity of that standard.

															Casey reaffirmed “the most central principle of Roe v. Wade,” “a woman’s right to terminate her pregnancy before viability.”  Casey, 505 U. S., at 871 (plurality opinion).[1]  At the same time, it recognized that the State has “important and legitimate interests in . . . protecting the health of the pregnant woman and in protecting the potentiality of human life.”  Id., at 875–876 (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted).

															To serve the former interest, the State may, “[a]s with any medical procedure,” enact “regulations to further the health or safety of a woman seeking an abortion.”  Id., at 878.  To serve the latter interest, the State may, among other things, “enact rules and regulations designed to encourage her to know that there are philosophic and social arguments of great weight that can be brought to bear in favor of continuing the pregnancy to full term.”  Id., at 872.  The State’s freedom to enact such rules is “consistent with Roe’s central premises, and indeed the inevitable consequence of our holding that the State has an interest in protecting the life of the unborn.”  Id., at 873.

															Under Casey, the State may not impose an undue burden on the woman’s ability to obtain an abortion.  “A finding of an undue burden is a shorthand for the conclusion that a state regulation has the purpose or effect of placing a substantial obstacle in the path of a woman seeking an abortion of a nonviable fetus.”  Id., at 877.  Laws that do not pose a substantial obstacle to abortion access are permissible, so long as they are “reasonably related” to a legitimate state interest.  Id., at 878.

															After faithfully reciting this standard, the Court in Whole Woman’s Health added the following observation: “The rule announced in Casey . . . requires that courts consider the burdens a law imposes on abortion access together with the benefits those laws confer.”  579 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 19–20).  The plurality repeats today that the undue burden standard requires courts “to weigh the law’s asserted benefits against the burdens it imposes on abortion access.”  Ante, at 2 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Read in isolation from Casey, such an inquiry could invite a grand “balancing test in which unweighted factors mysteriously are weighed.”  Marrs v. Motorola, Inc., 577 F.3d 783, 788 (CA7 2009).  Under such tests, “equality of treatment is . . . impossible to achieve; predictability is destroyed; judicial arbitrariness is facilitated; judicial courage is impaired.”  Scalia, The Rule of Law as a Law of Rules, 56 U. Chi. L. Rev. 1175, 1182 (1989).

															In this context, courts applying a balancing test would be asked in essence to weigh the State’s interests in “protecting the potentiality of human life” and the health of the woman, on the one hand, against the woman’s liberty interest in defining her “own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life” on the other.  Casey, 505 U. S., at 851 (opinion of the Court); id., at 871 (plurality opinion) (internal quotation marks omitted).  There is no plausible sense in which anyone, let alone this Court, could objectively assign weight to such imponderable values and no meaningful way to compare them if there were.  Attempting to do so would be like “judging whether a particular line is longer than a particular rock is heavy,”  Bendix Autolite Corp. v. Midwesco Enterprises, Inc.,

486 U.S. 888, 897 (1988) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment). Pretending that we could pull that off would require us to act as legislators, not judges, and would result in nothing other than an “unanalyzed exercise of judicial will” in the guise of a “neutral utilitarian calculus.”  New Jersey v. T. L. O.,

469 U.S. 325, 369 (1985) (Brennan, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).

															Nothing about Casey suggested that a weighing of costs and benefits of an abortion regulation was a job for the courts.  On the contrary, we have explained that the “traditional rule” that “state and federal legislatures [have] wide discretion to pass legislation in areas where there is medical and scientific uncertainty” is “consistent with Casey.” Gonzales v. Carhart,

550 U.S. 124, 163 (2007).  Casey instead focuses on the existence of a substantial obstacle, the sort of inquiry familiar to judges across a variety of contexts.  See, e.g., Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc.,

573 U.S. 682, 694–695 (2014) (asking whether the government “substantially burdens a person’s exercise of religion” under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act); Arizona Free Enterprise Club’s Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett,

564 U.S. 721, 748 (2011) (asking whether a law “imposes a substantial burden on the speech of privately financed candidates and independent expenditure groups”); Murphy v. United Parcel Service, Inc.,

527 U.S. 516, 521 (1999) (asking, in the context of the Americans with Disabilities Act, whether an individual’s impairment “substantially limits one or more major life activities” (internal quotation marks omitted)).

															Casey’s analysis of the various restrictions that were at issue in that case is illustrative.  For example, the opinion recognized that Pennsylvania’s 24-hour waiting period for abortions “has the effect of increasing the cost and risk of delay of abortions,” but observed that the District Court did not find that the “increased costs and potential delays amount to substantial obstacles.”  505 U. S., at 886 (joint opinion of O’Connor, Kennedy, and Souter, JJ.) (internal quotation marks omitted).  The opinion concluded that “given the statute’s definition of medical emergency,” the waiting period did not “impose[ ] a real health risk.”  Ibid.  Because the law did not impose a substantial obstacle, Casey upheld it.  And it did so notwithstanding the District Court’s finding that the law did “not further the state interest in maternal health.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Turning to the State’s various recordkeeping and reporting requirements, Casey found those requirements do not “impose a substantial obstacle to a woman’s choice” because “[a]t most they increase the cost of some abortions by a slight amount.”  Id., at 901.  “While at some point increased cost could become a substantial obstacle,” there was “no such showing on the record” before the Court.  Ibid.  The Court did not weigh this cost against the benefits of the law.

															The same was true for Pennsylvania’s parental consent requirement.  Casey held that “a State may require a minor seeking an abortion to obtain the consent of a parent or guardian, provided there is an adequate judicial bypass procedure.”  Id., at 899 (citing, among other cases, Ohio v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health,

497 U.S. 502, 510–519 (1990)).  Casey relied on precedent establishing that judicial bypass procedures “prevent another person from having an absolute veto power over a minor’s decision to have an abortion.”  Akron, 497 U. S., at 510.  Without a judicial bypass, parental consent laws impose a substantial obstacle to a minor’s ability to obtain an abortion and therefore constitute an undue burden. See Casey, 505 U. S., at 899 (joint opinion).

															The opinion similarly looked to whether there was a substantial burden, not whether benefits outweighed burdens, in analyzing Pennsylvania’s requirement that physicians provide certain “truthful, nonmisleading information” about the nature of the abortion procedure.  Id., at 882.  The opinion concluded that the requirement “cannot be considered a substantial obstacle to obtaining an abortion, and, it follows, there is no undue burden.”  Id., at 883 (emphasis added).

															With regard to the State’s requirement that a physician, as opposed to a qualified assistant, provide the woman this information, the opinion reasoned: “Since there is no evidence on this record that requiring a doctor to give the information as provided by the statute would amount in practical terms to a substantial obstacle to a woman seeking an abortion, we conclude that it is not an undue burden.”  Id., at 884–885 (emphasis added).  This was so “even if an objective assessment might suggest that those same tasks could be performed by others,” meaning the law had little if any benefit.  Id., at 885.

															The only restriction Casey found unconstitutional was Pennsylvania’s spousal notification requirement.  On that score, the Court recited a bevy of social science evidence demonstrating that “millions of women in this country . . . may have justifiable fears of physical abuse” or “devastating forms of psychological abuse from their husbands.”  Id., at 893 (opinion of the Court).  In addition to “physical violence” and “child abuse,” women justifiably feared “verbal harassment, threats of future violence, the destruction of possessions, physical confinement to the home, the withdrawal of financial support, or the disclosure of the abortion to family and friends.”  Ibid.  The spousal notification requirement was “thus likely to prevent a significant number of women from obtaining an abortion.”  Ibid.  It did not “merely make abortions a little more difficult or expensive to obtain; for many women, it [imposed] a substantial obstacle.”  Id., at 893–894.  The Court emphasized that it would not “blind [itself] to the fact that the significant number of women who fear for their safety and the safety of their children are likely to be deterred from procuring an abortion as surely as if the Commonwealth had outlawed abortion in all cases.”  Id., at 894.

															The upshot of Casey is clear: The several restrictions that did not impose a substantial obstacle were constitutional, while the restriction that did impose a substantial obstacle was unconstitutional.

															To be sure, the Court at times discussed the benefits of the regulations, including when it distinguished spousal notification from parental consent.  See Whole Woman’s Health, 579 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 19–20) (citing Casey, 505 U. S., at 887–898 (opinion of the Court); id., at 899–901 (joint opinion).  But in the context of Casey’s governing standard, these benefits were not placed on a scale opposite the law’s burdens.  Rather, Casey discussed benefits in considering the threshold requirement that the State have a “legitimate purpose” and that the law be “reasonably related to that goal.”  Id., at 878 (plurality opinion); id., at 882 (joint opinion).

															So long as that showing is made, the only question for a court is whether a law has the “effect of placing a substantial obstacle in the path of a woman seeking an abortion of a nonviable fetus.”  Id., at 877 (plurality opinion).  Casey repeats that “substantial obstacle” standard nearly verbatim no less than 15 times.  Id., at 846, 894, 895 (opinion of the Court); id., at 877, 878 (plurality opinion); id., at 883, 884, 885, 886, 887, 901 (joint opinion).[2]

															The only place a balancing test appears in Casey is in Justice Stevens’s partial dissent.  “Weighing the State’s interest in potential life and the woman’s liberty interest,” Justice Stevens would have gone further than the plurality to strike down portions of the State’s informed consent requirements and 24-hour waiting period.  Id., at 916–920 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).  But that approach did not win the day.

															Mazurek v. Armstrong places this understanding of Casey’s undue burden standard beyond doubt.  Mazurek involved a challenge to a Montana law restricting the performance of abortions to licensed physicians.  520 U. S., at 969.  It was “uncontested that there was insufficient evidence of a ‘substantial obstacle’ to abortion.”  Id., at 972.  Therefore, once the Court found that the Montana Legislature had not acted with an “unlawful motive,” the Court’s work was complete.  Ibid.  In fact, the Court found the challengers’ argument—that the law was invalid because “all health evidence contradicts the [State’s] claim that there is any health basis for the law”—to be “squarely foreclosed by Casey itself.”  Id., at 973 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis added).

															We should respect the statement in Whole Woman’s Health that it was applying the undue burden standard of Casey.  The opinion in Whole Woman’s Health began by saying, “We must here decide whether two provisions of [the Texas law] violate the Federal Constitution as interpreted in Casey.”  579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 1).  Nothing more.  The Court explicitly stated that it was applying “the standard, as described in Casey,” and reversed the Court of Appeals for applying an approach that did “not match the standard that this Court laid out in Casey.”  Id., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 19, 20).

															Here the plurality expressly acknowledges that we are not considering how to analyze an abortion regulation that does not present a substantial obstacle.  “That,” the plurality explains, “is not this case.”  Ante, at 40.  In this case, Casey’s requirement of finding a substantial obstacle before invalidating an abortion regulation is therefore a sufficient basis for the decision, as it was in Whole Woman’s Health.  In neither case, nor in Casey itself, was there call for consideration of a regulation’s benefits, and nothing in Casey commands such consideration.  Under principles of stare decisis, I agree with the plurality that the determination in Whole Woman’s Health that Texas’s law imposed a substantial obstacle requires the same determination about Louisiana’s law.  Under those same principles, I would adhere to the holding of Casey, requiring a substantial obstacle before striking down an abortion regulation.

															B

															Whole Woman’s Health held that Texas’s admitting privileges requirement placed “a substantial obstacle in the path of women seeking a previability abortion,” independent of its discussion of benefits.  579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 2) (citing Casey, 505 U. S., at 878 (plurality opinion)).[3]  Because Louisiana’s admitting privileges requirement would restrict women’s access to abortion to the same degree as Texas’s law, it also cannot stand under our precedent.[4]

															To begin, the two laws are nearly identical.  Prior to enactment of the Texas law, abortion providers were required either to possess local hospital admitting privileges or to have a transfer agreement with a physician who had such privileges.  Tex. Admin. Code, tit. 25, §139.56(a) (2009).  The new law, adopted in 2013, eliminated the option of having a transfer agreement.  Providers were required to “[h]ave active admitting privileges at a hospital . . . located not further than 30 miles from the location at which the abortion is performed.”  Tex. Health & Safety Code Ann. §171.0031(a)(1)(A).

															Likewise, Louisiana law previously required abortion providers to have either admitting privileges or a transfer agreement.  La. Admin. Code, tit. 48, pt. I, §4407(A)(3) (2003), 29 La. Reg. 706–707 (2003).  In 2014, Louisiana removed the option of having a transfer agreement.  Just like Texas, Louisiana now requires abortion providers to “[h]ave active admitting privileges at a hospital . . . located not further than thirty miles from the location at which the abortion is performed.”  La. Rev. Stat. §40:1061.10(A)(2)(a).

															Crucially, the District Court findings indicate that Louisiana’s law would restrict access to abortion in just the same way as Texas’s law, to the same degree or worse.  In Texas, “as of the time the admitting-privileges requirement began to be enforced, the number of facilities providing abortions dropped in half, from about 40 to about 20.”  Whole Woman’s Health, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 24).  Eight abortion clinics closed in the months prior to the law’s effective date.  Ibid.  Another 11 clinics closed on the day the law took effect.  Ibid.

															Similarly, the District Court found that the Louisiana law would “result in a drastic reduction in the number and geographic distribution of abortion providers.”  250 F.  Supp. 3d, at 87.  At the time of the District Court’s decision, there were three clinics and five physicians performing abortions in Louisiana.  Id., at 40, 41.  The District Court found that the new law would reduce “the number of clinics to one, or at most two,” and the number of physicians in Louisiana to “one, or at most two,” as well.  Id., at 87.  Even in the best case, “the demand for services would vastly exceed the supply.”  Ibid.
Whole Woman’s Health found that the closures of the abortion clinics led to “fewer doctors, longer waiting times, and increased crowding.”  579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 26).  The Court also found that “the number of women of reproductive age living in a county more than 150 miles from a provider increased from approximately 86,000 to 400,000 and the number of women living in a county more than 200 miles from a provider from approximately 10,000 to 290,000.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted).

															The District Court here likewise found that the Louisiana law would result in “longer waiting times for appointments, increased crowding and increased associated health risk.”  250 F. Supp. 3d, at 81.  The court found that Louisiana women already “have difficulty affording or arranging for transportation and childcare on the days of their clinic visits” and that “[i]ncreased travel distance” would exacerbate this difficulty.  Id., at 83.  The law would prove “particularly burdensome for women living in northern Louisiana . . . who once could access a clinic in their own area [and] will now have to travel approximately 320 miles to New Orleans.”  Ibid.

															In Texas, “common prerequisites to obtaining admitting privileges that [had] nothing to do with ability to perform medical procedures,” including “clinical data requirements, residency requirements, and other discretionary factors,” made it difficult for well-credentialed abortion physicians to obtain such privileges.  Whole Woman’s Health, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 25).  In particular, the Court found that “hospitals often condition[ed] admitting privileges on reaching a certain number of admissions per year.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 24) (internal quotation marks omitted).  But because complications requiring hospitalization are relatively rare, abortion providers were “unlikely to have any patients to admit” and thus were “unable to maintain admitting privileges or obtain those privileges for the future.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 25).

															So too here.  “While a physician’s competency is a factor in assessing an applicant for admitting privileges” in Louisiana, “it is only one factor that hospitals consider in whether to grant privileges.”  250 F. Supp. 3d, at 46.  Louisiana hospitals “may deny privileges or decline to consider an application for privileges for myriad reasons unrelated to competency,” including “the physician’s expected usage of the hospital and intent to admit and treat patients there, the number of patients the physician has treated in the hospital in the recent past, the needs of the hospital, the mission of the hospital, or the business model of the hospital.”  Ibid.[5]

															And the District Court found that, as in Texas, Louisiana “hospitals often grant admitting privileges to a physician because the physician plans to provide services in the hospital” and that “[i]n general, hospital admitting privileges are not provided to physicians who never intend to provide services in a hospital.”  Id., at 49.  But “[b]ecause, by all accounts, abortion complications are rare, an abortion provider is unlikely to have a consistent need to admit patients.”  Id., at 50 (citations omitted).[6]

															Importantly, the District Court found that “since the passage of [the Louisiana law], all five remaining doctors have attempted in good faith to comply” with the law by applying for admitting privileges, yet have had very little success.  Id., at 78 (emphasis added).  This finding was necessary to ensure that the physicians’ inability to obtain admitting privileges was attributable to the new law rather than a halfhearted attempt to obtain privileges.  Only then could the District Court accurately identify the Louisiana law’s burden on abortion access.

															The question is not whether we would reach the same findings from the same record.  These District Court findings “entail[ed] primarily . . . factual work” and therefore are “review[ed] only for clear error.”  U. S. Bank N. A. v. Village at Lakeridge, LLC, 583 U. S. ___, ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 6, 9).  Clear error review follows from a candid appraisal of the comparative advantages of trial courts and appellate courts.  “While we review transcripts for a living, they listen to witnesses for a living.  While we largely read briefs for a living, they largely assess the credibility of parties and witnesses for a living.”  Taglieri v. Monasky, 907 F.3d 404, 408 (CA6 2018) (en banc).

															We accordingly will not disturb the factual conclusions of the trial court unless we are “left with the definite and firm conviction that a mistake has been committed.”  United States v. United States Gypsum Co.,

333 U.S. 364, 395 (1948).  In my view, the District Court’s work reveals no such clear error, for the reasons the plurality explains.  Ante, at 19–35.  The District Court findings therefore bind us in this case.

															*  *  *

															Stare decisis instructs us to treat like cases alike.  The result in this case is controlled by our decision four years ago invalidating a nearly identical Texas law.  The Louisiana law burdens women seeking previability abortions to the same extent as the Texas law, according to factual findings that are not clearly erroneous.  For that reason, I concur in the judgment of the Court that the Louisiana law is unconstitutional.
Notes
1
 Although parts of Casey’s joint opinion were a plurality not joined by a majority of the Court, the joint opinion is nonetheless considered the holding of the Court under Marks v. United States,

430 U.S. 188, 193 (1977), as the narrowest position supporting the judgment. 

2
 Justice Gorsuch correctly notes that Casey “expressly disavowed any test as strict as strict scrutiny.”  Post, at 20 (dissenting opinion).  But he certainly is wrong to suggest that my position is in any way inconsistent with that disavowal.  Applying strict scrutiny would require “any regulation touching upon the abortion decision” to be the least restrictive means to further a compelling state interest.  Casey, 505 U. S., at 871 (plurality opinion) (emphasis added).  Casey however recognized that such a test would give “too little acknowledgement and implementation” to the State’s “legitimate interests in the health of the woman and in protecting the potential life within her.”  Ibid.  Under Casey, abortion regulations are valid so long as they do not pose a substantial obstacle and meet the threshold requirement of being “reasonably related” to a “legitimate purpose.”  Id., at 878; id., at 882 (joint opinion). 

3
 Justice Gorsuch considers this is a “nonexistent ruling” nowhere to be found in Whole Woman’s Health.  Post, at 19 (dissenting opinion).  I disagree.  Whole Woman’s Health first surveyed the benefits of Texas’s admitting privileges requirement.  579 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 23–24).  The Court then transitioned to examining the law’s burdens: “At the same time, the record evidence indicates that the admitting-privileges requirement places a substantial obstacle in the path of a woman’s choice.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 24) (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis added).  And the Court made clear that a law which has the purpose or effect of placing “a substantial obstacle in the path of a woman seeking an abortion before the fetus attains viability” imposes an “undue burden” and therefore violates the Constitution.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 1) (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis deleted).  Thus the discussion of benefits in Whole Woman’s Health was not necessary to its holding. 

4
 For the reasons the plurality explains, ante, at 11–16, I agree that the abortion providers in this case have standing to assert the constitutional rights of their patients. 

5
 Justice Alito misunderstands my discussion of credentials as focusing on the law’s lack of benefits.  See post, at 4 (dissenting opinion).  But my analysis, like Casey, is limited to the law’s effect on the availability of abortion. 

6
 I agree with Justice Alito that the validity of admitting privileges laws “depend[s] on numerous factors that may differ from State to State.”  Post, at 9 (dissenting opinion).  And I agree with Justice Gorsuch that “[w]hen it comes to the factual record, litigants normally start the case on a clean slate.”  Post, at 14 (dissenting opinion).  Appreciating that others may in good faith disagree, however, I cannot view the record here as in any pertinent respect sufficiently different from that in Whole Woman’s Health to warrant a different outcome. 


