::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-038
::decision_cite:: 18-1195
::decision_name::  Espinoza v. Montana Department of Revenue
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–1195

															_________________

															KENDRA ESPINOZA, et al., PETITIONERS v. MONTANA DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of montana

															[June 30, 2020]

															Justice Gorsuch, concurring.

															The people of Montana, acting through their legislature, adopted a school choice program.  It provided a modest tax credit to individuals and businesses who donated to nonprofit scholarship organizations.  As the program began to take root, Montana had just one scholarship organization.  It granted scholarships to families who were struggling financially or had children with disabilities.  Recipients were free to use the scholarships at the schools of their choice.  Some families chose secular schools, others religious ones.

															Kendra Espinoza, the lead petitioner in this case, is a single mother who works three jobs.  She planned to use scholarships to help keep her daughters at an accredited religious school.  That is, until the Montana Supreme Court struck down the tax credit program.  Those seeking a tax credit were free to choose whether to direct their donations to the independent scholarship organization; the organization was then free to choose scholarship recipients; and, after that, parents were free to choose where to use those scholarships.  But, the Montana Supreme Court held, this arrangement impermissibly allowed state funds to find their way to religious schools, in violation of a state constitutional provision.  By way of remedy, the court ordered an end to the tax credit program, effectively killing Montana’s school choice experiment:  Without tax credits, donations dry up, and so do the scholarships enabling school choice.

															Today, the Court explains how the Montana Constitution, as interpreted by the State Supreme Court, violates the
 
First Amendment by discriminating against parents and schools based on their religious status or identity.  The Court explains, too, why the State Supreme Court’s decision to eliminate the tax credit program fails to mask the discrimination.  But for the Montana Constitution’s impermissible discrimination, after all, the legislature’s tax credit and scholarship program would be still operating for the benefit of Ms. Espinoza and everyone else.  I agree with all the Court says on these scores and join its opinion in full.  I write separately only to address an additional point.

															The Court characterizes the Montana Constitution as discriminating against parents and schools based on “religious status and not religious use.”  Ante, at 10.  No doubt, the Court proceeds as it does to underscore how the outcome of this case follows from Trinity Lutheran Church of Columbia, Inc. v. Comer, 582 U. S. ___ (2017), where the Court struck down a similar public benefits restriction that, it held, discriminated on the basis of religious status.  No doubt, too, discrimination on the basis of religious status raises grave constitutional questions for the reasons the Court describes.  But I was not sure about characterizing the State’s discrimination in Trinity Lutheran as focused only on religious status, and I am even less sure about characterizing the State’s discrimination here that way.  See id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 1–2) (Gorsuch, J., concurring in part).

															In the first place, discussion of religious activity, uses, and conduct—not just status—pervades this record.  The Montana Constitution forbids the use of public funds “for any sectarian purpose,” including to “aid” sectarian schools.  Art. X, §6(1).  Tracking this directive, the State Supreme Court reasoned that the legislature’s tax credit program could be used to “subsidiz[e] the sectarian school’s educational program” and thereby “strengthen . . . religious education.”  393 Mont. 446, 466, 467, 435 P.3d 603, 613, 614 (2018).  Meanwhile, Ms. Espinoza admits that she would like to use scholarship funds to enable her daughters to be taught in school the “same Christian values” they are taught at home.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 152.  Finally, in its briefing before this Court, Montana has represented that its Constitution focuses on preventing the use of tax credits to subsidize religious activity.

															Not only is the record replete with discussion of activities, uses, and conduct, any jurisprudence grounded on a status-use distinction seems destined to yield more questions than answers.  Does Montana seek to prevent religious parents and schools from participating in a public benefits program (status)?  Or does the State aim to bar public benefits from being employed to support religious education (use)?  Maybe it’s possible to describe what happened here as status-based discrimination.  But it seems equally, and maybe more, natural to say that the State’s discrimination focused on what religious parents and schools do—teach religion.  Nor are the line-drawing challenges here unique; they have arisen before and will again.  See Trinity Lutheran, 582 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 1–2) (opinion of Gorsuch, J.).

															Most importantly, though, it is not as if the
 
First Amendment cares.  The Constitution forbids laws that prohibit the free exercise of religion.  That guarantee protects not just the right to be a religious person, holding beliefs inwardly and secretly; it also protects the right to act on those beliefs outwardly and publicly.  At the time of the
 
First Amendment’s adoption, the word “exercise” meant (much as it means today) some “[l]abour of the body,” a “[u]se,” as in the “actual application of any thing,” or a “[p]ractice,” as in some “outward performance.”  1 S. Johnson, A Dictionary of the English Language (4th ed. 1773); see also ibid. (5th ed. 1784).  By speaking of a right to “free exercise,” rather than a right “of conscience,” an alternative the framers considered and rejected, our Constitution “extended the broader freedom of action to all believers.”  McConnell, The Origins and Historical Understanding of Free Exercise of Religion, 103 Harv. L. Rev. 1409, 1490 (1989).  So whether the Montana Constitution is better described as discriminating against religious status or use makes no difference:  It is a violation of the right to free exercise either way, unless the State can show its law serves some compelling and narrowly tailored governmental interest, conditions absent here for reasons the Court thoroughly explains.  

															Our cases have long recognized the importance of protecting religious actions, not just religious status.  In its very first decision applying the Free Exercise Clause to the States, the Court explained that the
 
First Amendment protects the “freedom to act” as well as the “freedom to believe.”  Cantwell v. Connecticut,

310 U.S. 296, 303 (1940).  The Court then reversed a criminal conviction against Newton Cantwell and his sons, Jehovah’s Witnesses who were prosecuted not because of who they were but because of what they did—proselytize door-to-door without a license.  See id., at 300–301, 307, 311.  In fact, this Court has already recognized that parents’ decisions about the education of their children—the very conduct at issue here—can constitute protected religious activity.  In Wisconsin v. Yoder,

406 U.S. 205 (1972), the Court held that Amish parents could not be compelled to send their children to a public high school if doing so would conflict with the dictates of their faith.  See id., at 214–215, 220, 234–235.

															Even cases that seemingly focus on religious status do so with equal respect for religious actions.  In McDaniel v. Paty,

435 U.S. 618 (1978) (plurality opinion), for example, a State had barred the clergy from serving in the state legislature or at the state constitutional convention.  See id., at 620–622.  Some have described the discrimination there as focused on religious “ ‘ status.’ ”  Trinity Lutheran, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7) (quoting McDaniel, 435 U. S., at 627) (emphasis deleted).  But no one can question that conduct lurked just beneath the surface.  After all, the State identified clergy based on their “conduct and activity,” and the plurality opinion concluded that the State’s prohibition was based on “status, acts, and conduct.”  435 U. S., at 627; see also id., at 630–633 (Brennan, J., concurring in judgment); Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah,

508 U.S. 520 (1993).  

															Consistently, too, we have recognized the
 
First Amendment’s protection for religious conduct in public benefits cases.  When the government chooses to offer scholarships, unemployment benefits, or other affirmative assistance to its citizens, those benefits necessarily affect the “baseline against which burdens on religion are measured.”  Locke v. Davey,

540 U.S. 712, 726 (2004) (Scalia, J., dissenting) (citing Everson v. Board of Ed. of Ewing,

330 U.S. 1, 16 (1947)).  So, as we have long explained, the government “penalize[s] religious activity” whenever it denies to religious persons an “equal share of the rights, benefits, and privileges enjoyed by other citizens.”  Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Assn.,

485 U.S. 439, 449 (1988).  What benefits the government decides to give, whether meager or munificent, it must give without discrimination against religious conduct.  

															Our cases illustrate the point.  In Sherbert v. Verner,

374 U.S. 398 (1963), for example, a State denied unemployment benefits to Adell Sherbert not because she was a Seventh Day Adventist but because she had put her faith into practice by refusing to labor on the day she believed God had set aside for rest.  See id., at 399–401.  Recognizing her right to exercise her religion freely, the Court held that Ms. Sherbert was entitled to benefits.  See id., at 410.  Similarly, in Thomas v. Review Bd. of Ind. Employment Security Div., 
450 U.S. 707 (1981), the Court held that Eddie Thomas had the right to resign from his job and still collect an unemployment check after he decided he could not assemble military tank turrets consistent with the teachings of his faith.  See id., at 709–712, 720.  In terms that speak equally to our case, the Court explained that the government tests the Free Exercise Clause whenever it “conditions receipt of an important benefit upon conduct proscribed by a religious faith, or . . . denies such a benefit because of conduct mandated by religious belief, thereby putting substantial pressure on an adherent to modify his behavior and to violate his beliefs.”  Id., at 717–718.  

															The
 
First Amendment protects religious uses and actions for good reason.  What point is it to tell a person that he is free to be Muslim but he may be subject to discrimination for doing what his religion commands, attending Friday prayers, living his daily life in harmony with the teaching of his faith, and educating his children in its ways?  What does it mean to tell an Orthodox Jew that she may have her religion but may be targeted for observing her religious calendar?  Often, governments lack effective ways to control what lies in a person’s heart or mind.  But they can bring to bear enormous power over what people say and do.  The right to be religious without the right to do religious things would hardly amount to a right at all.

															If the government could intrude so much in matters of faith, too, winners and losers would soon emerge.  Those apathetic about religion or passive in its practice would suffer little in a world where only inward belief or status is protected.  But what about those with a deep faith that requires them to do things passing legislative majorities might find unseemly or uncouth—like knocking on doors to spread their beliefs, refusing to build tank turrets during wartime, or teaching their children at home?  “[T]hose who take their religion seriously, who think that their religion should affect the whole of their lives,” and those whose religious beliefs and practices are least popular, would face the greatest disabilities.  Mitchell v. Helms,

530 U.S. 793, 827–828 (2000) (plurality opinion).  A right meant to protect minorities instead could become a cudgel to ensure conformity.

															It doesn’t take a long or searching look through history or around the world to see how this can go.  In the century before our Nation’s founding, Oliver Cromwell promised to Catholics in Ireland:  “ ‘As to freedom of conscience, I meddle with no man’s conscience; but if you mean by that, liberty to celebrate the Mass, I would have you understand that in no place where the power of the Parliament of England prevails shall that be permitted.’ ”  McDaniel, 435 U. S., at 631, n. 2 (opinion of Brennan, J.) (quoting S. Hook, Paradoxes of Freedom 23 (1962)); see also 1 T. Carlyle, Oliver Cromwell’s Letters and Speeches 395 (1845) (recording Cromwell’s October 19, 1649, letter to the Governor of Ross).  Even today, in fiefdoms small and large, people of faith are made to choose between receiving the protection of the State and living lives true to their religious convictions.

															Of course, in public benefits cases like the one before us the stakes are not so dramatic.  Individuals are forced only to choose between forgoing state aid or pursuing some aspect of their faith.  The government does not put a gun to the head, only a thumb on the scale.  But, as so many of our cases explain, the Free Exercise Clause doesn’t easily tolerate either; any discrimination against religious exercise must meet the demands of strict scrutiny.  In this way, the Clause seeks to ensure that religion remains “a matter of voluntary choice by individuals and their associations, [where] each sect ‘ flourish[es] according to the zeal of its adherents and the appeal of its dogma,’ ” influenced by neither where the government points its gun nor where it places its thumb.  McDaniel, 435 U. S., at 640 (opinion of Brennan J.) (quoting Zorach v. Clauson,

343 U.S. 306, 313 (1952)).

															Montana’s Supreme Court disregarded these foundational principles.  Effectively, the court told the state legislature and parents of Montana like Ms. Espinoza:  You can have school choice, but if anyone dares to choose to send a child to an accredited religious school, the program will be shuttered.  That condition on a public benefit discriminates against the free exercise of religion.  Calling it discrimination on the basis of religious status or religious activity makes no difference:  It is unconstitutional all the same.
													
