::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-057
::decision_cite:: 18-281
::decision_name::  Virginia House of Delegates v. Bethune-Hill
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–281

															_________________

															VIRGINIA HOUSE OF DELEGATES, et al., APPELLANTS v. GOLDEN BETHUNE-HILL, et al.

															on appeal from the united states district court for the eastern district of virginia

															[June 17, 2019]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom The Chief Justice, Justice Breyer, and Justice Kavanaugh join, dissenting.

															I would hold that the Virginia House of Delegates has standing to take this appeal.  The Court disagrees for two reasons: first, because Virginia law does not authorize the House to defend the invalidated redistricting plan on behalf of the Commonwealth, see ante, at 4–7, and, second, because the imposition of the District Court’s districting plan would not cause the House the kind of harm required by Article III of the Constitution, see ante, at 7–12.  I am convinced that the second holding is wrong and therefore will not address the first.

															I

															Our decision in Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555, 560 (1992), identified the three elements that constitute the “irreducible constitutional minimum of standing” demanded by Article III.  A party invoking the jurisdiction of a federal court must have “(1) suffered an injury in fact, (2) that is fairly traceable to the challenged conduct of the defendant, and (3) that is likely to be redressed by a favorable judicial decision.”  Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins, 578 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (slip op., at 6).  The Virginia House of Delegates satisfies all those requirements in this case.

															I begin with “injury in fact.”  It is clear, in my judgment, that the new districting plan ordered by the lower court will harm the House in a very fundamental way.  A legislative districting plan powerfully affects a legislative body’s output of work.  Each legislator represents a particular district, and each district contains a particular set of constituents with particular interests and views.  Cf., e.g., App. 165 (noting the “varied factors that can create or contribute to communities of interest” in districts (House Committee on Privileges and Elections resolution)).  The interests and views of these constituents generally have an important effect on everything that a legislator does—meeting with the representatives of organizations and groups seeking the legislator’s help in one way or another, drafting and sponsoring bills, pushing for and participating in hearings, writing or approving reports, and of course, voting.  When the boundaries of a district are changed, the constituents and communities of interest present within the district are altered, and this is likely to change the way in which the district’s representative does his or her work.  And while every individual voter will end up being represented by a legislator no matter which districting plan is ultimately used, it matters a lot how voters with shared interests and views are concentrated or split up.  The cumulative effects of all the decisions that go into a districting plan have an important impact on the overall work of the body.

															All of this should really go without saying.  After all, it is precisely because of the connections between the way districts are drawn, the composition of a legislature, and the things that a legislature does that so much effort is invested in drawing, contesting, and defending districting plans.  Districting matters because it has institutional and legislative consequences.  To suggest otherwise, to argue that substituting one plan for another has no effect on the work or output of the legislative body whose districts are changed, would really be quite astounding.  If the selection of a districting plan did not alter what the legislative body does, why would there be such pitched battles over redistricting efforts?

															What the Court says on this point is striking.  According to the Court, “the House as an institution has no cognizable interest in the identity of its members,” and thus suffers no injury from the imposition of a districting plan that “may affect the membership of the chamber” or the “content of legislation its future members may elect to enact.”  Ante, at 11, and n. 6 (emphasis deleted).  Really?  It seems obvious that any group consisting of members who must work together to achieve the group’s aims has a keen interest in the identity of its members, and it follows that the group also has a strong interest in how its members are selected.  And what is more important to such a group than the content of its work?

															Apply what the Court says to a group other than a legislative body and it is immediately obvious that the Court is wrong.  Does a string quartet have an interest in the identity of its cellist?  Does a basketball team have an interest in the identity of its point guard?  Does a board of directors have an interest in the identity of its chairperson?  Does it matter to these groups how their members are selected?  Do these groups care if the selection method affects their performance?  Of course.

															The Virginia House of Delegates exists for a purpose: to represent and serve the interests of the people of the Commonwealth.  The way in which its members are selected has a powerful effect on how it goes about this purpose[1]—a proposition reflected by the Commonwealth’s choice to mandate certain districting criteria in its constitution.  See Va. Const., Art. II, §6.  As far as the House’s standing, we must assume that the districting plan enacted by the legislature embodies the House’s judgment regarding the method of selecting members that best enables it to serve the people of the Commonwealth.  (Whether this is a permissible judgment is a merits question, not a question of standing.  Cf. Warth v. Seldin,

422 U.S. 490, 502 (1975)).  It therefore follows that discarding that plan and substituting another inflicts injury in fact.

															Our most pertinent precedent supports the standing of the House on this ground.  In Sixty-seventh Minnesota State Senate v. Beens,

406 U.S. 187 (1972) (per curiam), we held that the Minnesota Senate had standing to appeal a district court order reapportioning the Senate’s seats.  In reaching that conclusion, we noted that “certainly” such an order “directly affected” the Senate.  Id., at 194.  The same is true here.  There can be no doubt that the new districting plan “directly affect[s]” the House whose districts it redefines and whose legislatively drawn districts have been replaced with a court-ordered map.  That the Beens Court drew its “directly affect[s]” language from a case involving a standard reapportionment challenge, see Silver v. Jordan, 241 F. Supp. 576, 579 (SD Cal. 1964) (per curiam), aff’d,

381 U.S. 415 (1965) (per curiam), only serves to confirm that the House’s injury is sufficient to demonstrate standing under Beens.

															In an effort to distinguish Beens, it is argued that the District Court decision at issue there, which slashed the number of senators in half, “ha[d] a distinct and more direct effect on the body itself than a mere shift in district lines.”  Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 17; see Brief for State Appellees 38.  But even if the effect of the court order was greater in Beens than it is here, it is the existence—not the extent—of an injury that matters for purposes of Article III standing.

															The Court suggests that the effects of the court-ordered districting plan in Beens were different from the effects of the plan now before us because the former concerned the legislature’s internal operations.  See ante, at 10–11.  But even if the imposition of the court-ordered plan in this case would not affect the internal operations of the House (and that is by no means clear), it is very strange to think that changes to such things as “committee structures” and “voting rules,” see ante, at 10, are more important than changes in legislative output.

															In short, the invalidation of the House’s redistricting plan and its replacement with a court-ordered map would cause the House to suffer a “concrete” injury.  And as Article III demands, see Spokeo, 578 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 6–7), that injury would also be “particularized” (because it would target the House); “imminent” (because it would certainly occur if this appeal is dismissed); “traceable” to the imposition of the new, court-ordered plan; and “redress[able]” by the relief the House seeks here.  Ibid.

															II

															Although the opinion of the Court begins by citing the three fundamental Article III standing requirements just discussed, see ante, at 3, it is revealing that the Court never asserts that the effect of the court-ordered plan at issue would not cause the House “concrete” harm.  Instead, the Court claims only that any harm would not be “ ‘judicially cognizable,’ ” ante, at 7; see also ante, at 11.  The Court lifts this term from Raines v. Byrd,

521 U.S. 811, 819 (1997), where the Court held that individual Members of Congress lacked standing to challenge the constitutionality of the Line Item Veto Act.  But the decision in Raines rested heavily on federal separation-of-powers concerns, which are notably absent here.  See id., at 819–820, 826–829; id., at 832–835 (Souter, J., concurring in judgment).  And although the Court does not say so expressly, what I take from its use of the term “judicially cognizable” injury rather than “concrete” injury is that the decision here is not really based on the Lujan factors, which set out the “irreducible” minimum demanded by Article III.  504 U. S., at 560.  Instead, the argument seems to be that the House’s injury is insufficient for some other, only-hinted-at reason.

															Both the United States, appearing as an amicus, and the Commonwealth of Virginia are more explicit.  The Solicitor General’s brief argues as follows:

															“In the federal system, the Constitution gives Congress only ‘legislative Powers,’ U. S. Const. Art. 1, §1, and the ‘power to seek judicial relief . . . cannot possibly be regarded as merely in aid of the legislative function.’  Buckley v. Valeo,

424 U.S. 1, 138 (1976) (per curiam).  As a result, ‘once Congress makes its choice in enacting legislation, its participation ends.’  Bowsher v. Synar,

478 U.S. 714, 733 (1986). . . . The same is true here.  A branch of a state government that makes rather than enforces the law does not itself have a cognizable Article III interest in the defense of its laws.”  Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 14–15 (emphasis added).

															The Virginia Solicitor General makes a similar argument.  See Brief for State Appellees 42–44.

															These arguments are seriously flawed because the States are under no obligation to follow the Federal Constitution’s model when it comes to the separation of powers.  See Whalen v. United States,

445 U.S. 684, 689, n. 4 (1980); cf. Raines, supra, at 824, n. 8; Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Comm’n, 576 U. S. ___, ___, n. 12 (2015) (slip op., at 14, n. 12).  If one House of Congress or one or more Members of Congress attempt to invoke the power of a federal court, the court must consider whether this attempt is consistent with the structure created by the Federal Constitution.  An interest asserted by a Member of Congress or by one or both Houses of Congress that is inconsistent with that structure may not be judicially cognizable.  But I do not see how we can say anything similar about the standing of state legislators or state legislative bodies.[2]  Cf. Karcher v. May,

484 U.S. 72, 81–82 (1987).  The separation of powers (or the lack thereof) under a state constitution is purely a matter of state law, and neither the Court nor the Virginia Solicitor General has provided any support for the proposition that Virginia law bars the House from defending, in its own right, the constitutionality of a districting plan.

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, I would hold that the House of Delegates has standing, and I therefore respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 The Court has not hesitated to recognize this link in other contexts.  See, e.g., New York State Bd. of Elections v. Lopez Torres,

552 U.S. 196, 202 (2008); Eu v. San Francisco County Democratic Central Comm.,

489 U.S. 214, 229–230 (1989). 

2
 The Court’s observation that the Virginia Constitution gives legislative districting authority to the General Assembly as a whole—in other words, to the House of Delegates and the Senate in combination—does not answer the question.  To start, a similar argument against standing was pressed and rejected in Sixty-seventh Minnesota State Senate v. Beens,

406 U.S. 187 (1972) (per curiam), see Motion of Appellees to Dismiss Appeal in O. T. 1971, No. 71–1024, p. 9, and the Court does not explain why a different outcome is warranted here.  Nor am I persuaded by the Court’s citation of Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Comm’n, 576 U. S. ___ (2015).  There, the Court held that the Arizona Legislature had standing to bring a suit aimed at protecting its redistricting authority.  But from the fact that a whole legislature may have standing to defend its redistricting authority, it does not follow that the House necessarily lacks standing to challenge a redistricting decision based on concrete injuries to its institutional interests.  Cf. Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins, 578 U. S. ___, ___, n. 7 (2016) (slip op., at 8, n. 7). 


