::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-062
::decision_cite:: 18-422
::decision_name::  Rucho v. Common Cause
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 18–422, 18–726

															_________________

															ROBERT A. RUCHO, et al., APPELLANTS

															18–422v.

															COMMON CAUSE, et al.; AND

															on appeal from the united states district court for the middle district of north carolina

															

															LINDA H. LAMONE, et al., APPELLANTS

															18–726v.

															O. JOHN BENISEK, et al.

															on appeal from the united states district court for the district of maryland

															 [June 27, 2019]

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and Justice Sotomayor join, dissenting.

															For the first time ever, this Court refuses to remedy a constitutional violation because it thinks the task beyond judicial capabilities.

															And not just any constitutional violation.  The partisan gerrymanders in these cases deprived citizens of the most fundamental of their constitutional rights: the rights to participate equally in the political process, to join with others to advance political beliefs, and to choose their political representatives.  In so doing, the partisan gerrymanders here debased and dishonored our democracy, turning upside-down the core American idea that all governmental power derives from the people.  These gerrymanders enabled politicians to entrench themselves in office as against voters’ preferences.  They promoted partisanship above respect for the popular will.  They encouraged a politics of polarization and dysfunction.  If left unchecked, gerrymanders like the ones here may irreparably damage our system of government.

															And checking them is not beyond the courts.  The majority’s abdication comes just when courts across the country, including those below, have coalesced around manageable judicial standards to resolve partisan gerrymandering claims.  Those standards satisfy the majority’s own benchmarks.  They do not require—indeed, they do not permit—courts to rely on their own ideas of electoral fairness, whether proportional representation or any other.  And they limit courts to correcting only egregious gerrymanders, so judges do not become omnipresent players in the political process.  But yes, the standards used here do allow—as well they should—judicial intervention in the worst-of-the-worst cases of democratic subversion, causing blatant constitutional harms.  In other words, they allow courts to undo partisan gerrymanders of the kind we face today from North Carolina and Maryland.  In giving such gerrymanders a pass from judicial review, the majority goes tragically wrong.

															I

															Maybe the majority errs in these cases because it pays so little attention to the constitutional harms at their core.  After dutifully reciting each case’s facts, the majority leaves them forever behind, instead immersing itself in everything that could conceivably go amiss if courts became involved.  So it is necessary to fill in the gaps.  To recount exactly what politicians in North Carolina and Maryland did to entrench their parties in political office, whatever the electorate might think.  And to elaborate on the constitutional injury those politicians wreaked, to our democratic system and to individuals’ rights.  All that will help in considering whether courts confronting partisan gerrymandering claims are really so hamstrung—so un- able to carry out their constitutional duties—as the major- ity thinks.

															A

															The plaintiffs here challenge two congressional districting plans—one adopted by Republicans in North Carolina and the other by Democrats in Maryland—as unconstitutional partisan gerrymanders.  As I relate what happened in those two States, ask yourself: Is this how American democracy is supposed to work?

															Start with North Carolina.  After the 2010 census, the North Carolina General Assembly, with Republican majorities in both its House and its Senate, enacted a new congressional districting plan.  That plan governed the two next national elections.  In 2012, Republican candidates won 9 of the State’s 13 seats in the U. S. House of Representatives, although they received only 49% of the statewide vote.  In 2014, Republican candidates increased their total to 10 of the 13 seats, this time based on 55% of the vote.  Soon afterward, a District Court struck down two districts in the plan as unconstitutional racial gerrymanders.  See Harris v. McCrory, 159 F. Supp. 3d 600 (MDNC 2016), aff’d sub nom. Cooper v. Harris, 581 U. S. ___ (2017).  The General Assembly, with both chambers still controlled by Republicans, went back to the drawing board to craft the needed remedial state map.  And here is how the process unfolded:

															

															The Republican co-chairs of the Assembly’s redis- tricting committee, Rep. David Lewis and Sen. Robert Rucho, instructed Dr. Thomas Hofeller, a Republican districting specialist, to create a new map that would maintain the 10–3 composition of the State’s congressional delegation come what might.  Using sophisticated technological tools and precinct-level election results selected to predict voting behavior, Hofeller drew district lines to minimize Democrats’ voting strength and ensure the election of 10 Republican Congressmen.  See Common Cause v. Rucho, 318 F. Supp. 3d 777, 805–806 (MDNC 2018).

															

															Lewis then presented for the redistricting committee’s (retroactive) approval a list of the criteria Hofeller had employed—including one labeled “Partisan Advantage.”  That criterion, endorsed by a party-line vote, stated that the committee would make all “reasonable efforts to construct districts” to “maintain the current [10–3] partisan makeup” of the State’s congressional delegation.  Id., at 807.

															

															Lewis explained the Partisan Advantage criterion to legislators as follows: We are “draw[ing] the maps to give a partisan advantage to 10 Republicans and 3 Democrats because [I] d[o] not believe it[’s] possible to draw a map with 11 Republicans and 2 Democrats.”  Id., at 808 (internal quotation marks  omitted).

															

															The committee and the General Assembly later enacted, again on a party-line vote, the map Hofeller had drawn.  See id., at 809.

															

															Lewis announced: “I think electing Republicans is better than electing Democrats.  So I drew this map to help foster what I think is better for the country.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).

															

															You might think that judgment best left to the American people.  But give Lewis credit for this much: The map has worked just as he planned and predicted.  In 2016, Repub- 

															lican congressional candidates won 10 of North Carolina’s 13 seats, with 53% of the statewide vote.  Two years later, Republican candidates won 9 of 12 seats though they received only 50% of the vote.  (The 13th seat has not yet been filled because fraud tainted the initial election.)

															Events in Maryland make for a similarly grisly tale.  For 50 years, Maryland’s 8-person congressional delegation typically consisted of 2 or 3 Republicans and 5 or 6 Democrats.  After the 2000 districting, for example, the First and Sixth Districts reliably elected Republicans, and the other districts as reliably elected Democrats.  See R. Cohen & J. Barnes, Almanac of American Politics 2016, p. 836 (2015).  But in the 2010 districting cycle, the State’s Democratic leaders, who controlled the governorship and both houses of the General Assembly, decided to press their advantage.

															

															Governor Martin O’Malley, who oversaw the process, decided (in his own later words) “to create a map that was more favorable for Democrats over the next ten years.”  Because flipping the First District was geographically next-to-impossible, “a decision was made to go for the Sixth.”  Benisek v. Lamone, 348 F. Supp. 3d 493, 502 (Md. 2018) (quoting O’Malley; emphasis deleted).

															

															O’Malley appointed an advisory committee as the public face of his effort, while asking Congressman Steny Hoyer, a self-described “serial gerryman- derer,” to hire and direct a mapmaker.  Id., at 502.  Hoyer retained Eric Hawkins, an analyst at a political consulting firm providing services to Democrats.  See id., at 502–503.

															

															Hawkins received only two instructions: to ensure that the new map produced 7 reliable Democratic seats, and to protect all Democratic incumbents.  See id., at 503.

															

															Using similar technologies and election data as Hofeller, Hawkins produced a map to those specifications.  Although new census figures required removing only 10,000 residents from the Sixth District, Hawkins proposed a large-scale population transfer.  The map moved about 360,000 voters out of the district and another 350,000 in.  That swap decreased the number of registered Republicans in the district by over 66,000 and increased the number of registered Democrats by about 24,000, all to produce a safe Democratic district.  See id., at 499, 501.

															

															After the advisory committee adopted the map on a party-line vote, State Senate President Thomas Miller briefed the General Assembly’s Democratic caucuses about the new map’s aims.  Miller told his colleagues that the map would give “Democrats a real opportunity to pick up a seventh seat in the delegation” and that “[i]n the face of Republican gains in redistricting in other states[,] we have a serious obligation to create this opportunity.”  Id., at 506 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															

															The General Assembly adopted the plan on a party-line vote.  See id., at 506.

															

															Maryland’s Democrats proved no less successful than North Carolina’s Republicans in devising a voter-proof map.  In the four elections that followed (from 2012 through 2018), Democrats have never received more than 65% of the statewide congressional vote.  Yet in each of those elections, Democrats have won (you guessed it) 7 of 8 

															House seats—including the once-reliably-Republican Sixth District.

															B

															Now back to the question I asked before: Is that how American democracy is supposed to work?  I have yet to meet the person who thinks so.

															“Governments,” the Declaration of Independence states, “deriv[e] their just Powers from the Consent of the Governed.”  The Constitution begins: “We the People of the United States.”  The Gettysburg Address (almost) ends: “[G]overnment of the people, by the people, for the people.”  If there is a single idea that made our Nation (and that our Nation commended to the world), it is this one: The people are sovereign.  The “power,” James Madison wrote, “is in the people over the Government, and not in the Government over the people.”  4 Annals of Cong. 934 (1794).

															Free and fair and periodic elections are the key to that vision.  The people get to choose their representatives.  And then they get to decide, at regular intervals, whether to keep them.  Madison again: “[R]epublican liberty” demands “not only, that all power should be derived from the people; but that those entrusted with it should be kept in dependence on the people.”  2 The Federalist No. 37, p. 4 (J. & A. McLean eds. 1788).  Members of the House of Representatives, in particular, are supposed to “recollect[ ] [that] dependence” every day.  Id., No. 57, at 155.  To retain an “intimate sympathy with the people,” they must be “compelled to anticipate the moment” when their “exercise of [power] is to be reviewed.”  Id., Nos. 52, 57, at 124, 155.  Election day—next year, and two years later, and two years after that—is what links the people to their representatives, and gives the people their sovereign power.  That day is the foundation of democratic  governance.

															And partisan gerrymandering can make it meaningless.  At its most extreme—as in North Carolina and Maryland—the practice amounts to “rigging elections.”  Vieth v. Jubelirer,

541 U.S. 267, 317 (2004) (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation marks omitted).  By drawing districts to maximize the power of some voters and minimize the power of others, a party in office at the right time can entrench itself there for a decade or more, no matter what the voters would prefer.  Just ask the people of North Carolina and Maryland.  The “core principle of republican government,” this Court has recognized, is “that the voters should choose their representatives, not the other way around.”  Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Comm’n, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 35) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Partisan gerrymandering turns it the other way around.  By that mechanism, politicians can cherry-pick voters to ensure their reelection.  And the power becomes, as Madison put it, “in the Government over the people.”  4 Annals of Cong. 934.

															The majority disputes none of this.  I think it important to underscore that fact: The majority disputes none of what I have said (or will say) about how gerrymanders undermine democracy.  Indeed, the majority concedes (really, how could it not?) that gerrymandering is “incompatible with democratic principles.”  Ante, at 30 (quoting Arizona State Legislature, 576 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 1)).  And therefore what?  That recognition would seem to demand a response.  The majority offers two ideas that might qualify as such.  One is that the political process can deal with the problem—a proposition so dubious on its face that I feel secure in delaying my answer for some time.  See ante, at 31–33; infra, at 29–31.  The other is that political gerrymanders have always been with us.  See ante, at 8, 24.  To its credit, the majority does not frame that point as an originalist constitutional argument.  After all (as the majority rightly notes), racial and residential gerrymanders were also once with us, but the Court has done something about that fact.  See ante, at 10.[1]  The majority’s idea instead seems to be that if we have lived with partisan gerrymanders so long, we will survive.

															That complacency has no cause.  Yes, partisan gerrymandering goes back to the Republic’s earliest days.  (As does vociferous opposition to it.)  But big data and modern technology—of just the kind that the mapmakers in North Carolina and Maryland used—make today’s gerrymandering altogether different from the crude linedrawing of the past.  Old-time efforts, based on little more than guesses, sometimes led to so-called dummymanders—gerrymanders that went spectacularly wrong.  Not likely in today’s world.  Mapmakers now have access to more granular data about party preference and voting behavior than ever before.  County-level voting data has given way to precinct-level or city-block-level data; and increasingly, mapmakers avail themselves of data sets providing wide-ranging information about even individual voters.  See Brief for Political Science Professors as Amici Curiae 20–22.  Just as important, advancements in computing technology have enabled mapmakers to put that information to use with unprecedented efficiency and precision.  See id., at 22–25.  While bygone mapmakers may have drafted three or four alternative districting plans, today’s mapmakers can generate thousands of possibilities at the touch of a key—and then choose the one giving their party maximum advantage (usually while still meeting traditional districting requirements).  The effect is to make gerrymanders far more effective and durable than before, insulating politicians against all but the most titanic shifts in the political tides.  These are not your grand- father’s—let alone the Framers’—gerrymanders.

															The proof is in the 2010 pudding.  That redistricting cycle produced some of the most extreme partisan gerrymanders in this country’s history.  I’ve already recounted the results from North Carolina and Maryland, and you’ll hear even more about those.  See supra, at 4–6; infra, at 19–20.  But the voters in those States were not the only ones to fall prey to such districting perversions.  Take Pennsylvania.  In the three congressional elections occurring under the State’s original districting plan (before the State Supreme Court struck it down), Democrats received between 45% and 51% of the statewide vote, but won only 5 of 18 House seats.  See League of Women Voters v. Pennsylvania, ___ Pa. ___, ___, 178 A.3d 737, 764 (2018).  Or go next door to Ohio.  There, in four congressional elections, Democrats tallied between 39% and 47% of the statewide vote, but never won more than 4 of 16 House seats.  See Ohio A. Philip Randolph Inst. v. Householder, 373 F. Supp. 3d 978, 1074 (SD Ohio 2019).  (Nor is there any reason to think that the results in those States stemmed from political geography or non-partisan districting criteria, rather than from partisan manipulation.  See infra, at 15, 31.)  And gerrymanders will only get worse (or depending on your perspective, better) as time goes on—as data becomes ever more fine-grained and data analysis techniques continue to improve.  What was possible with paper and pen—or even with Windows 95—doesn’t hold a candle (or an LED bulb?) to what will become possible with developments like machine learning.  And someplace along this road, “we the people” become sovereign no longer.

															C

															Partisan gerrymandering of the kind before us not only subverts democracy (as if that weren’t bad enough).  It violates individuals’ constitutional rights as well.  That statement is not the lonesome cry of a dissenting Justice.  This Court has recognized extreme partisan gerrymandering as such a violation for many years.

															Partisan gerrymandering operates through vote dilution—the devaluation of one citizen’s vote as compared to others.  A mapmaker draws district lines to “pack” and “crack” voters likely to support the disfavored party.  See generally Gill v. Whitford, 585 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2018) (slip op., at 14–16).  He packs supermajorities of those voters into a relatively few districts, in numbers far greater than needed for their preferred candidates to prevail.  Then he cracks the rest across many more districts, spreading them so thin that their candidates will not be able to win.  Whether the person is packed or cracked, his vote carries less weight—has less consequence—than it would under a neutrally drawn (non-partisan) map.  See id., at ___ (Kagan, J., concurring) (slip op., at 4).  In short, the mapmaker has made some votes count for less, because they are likely to go for the other party.

															That practice implicates the
 
Fourteenth Amendment’s Equal Protection Clause.  The
 
Fourteenth Amendment, we long ago recognized, “guarantees the opportunity for equal participation by all voters in the election” of legislators.  Reynolds v. Sims,

377 U.S. 533, 566 (1964).  And that opportunity “can be denied by a debasement or dilution of the weight of a citizen’s vote just as effectively as by wholly prohibiting the free exercise of the franchise.”  Id., at  555.  Based on that principle, this Court in its one-person-one-vote decisions prohibited creating districts with significantly different populations.  A State could not, we explained, thus “dilut[e] the weight of votes because of place of residence.”  Id., at 566.  The constitutional injury in a partisan gerrymandering case is much the same, except that the dilution is based on party affiliation.  In such a case, too, the districters have set out to reduce the weight of certain citizens’ votes, and thereby deprive them of their capacity to “full[y] and effective[ly] participat[e] in the political process[ ].”  Id., at 565.  As Justice Kennedy (in a controlling opinion) once hypothesized: If districters declared that they were drawing a map “so as most to burden [the votes of] Party X’s” supporters, it would violate the Equal Protection Clause.  Vieth, 541 U. S., at 312.  For (in the language of the one-person-one-vote decisions) it would infringe those voters’ rights to “equal [electoral] participation.”  Reynolds, 377 U. S., at 566; see Gray v. Sanders,

372 U.S. 368, 379–380 (1963) (“The concept of ‘we the people’ under the Constitution visualizes no preferred class of voters but equality among those who meet the basic qualifications”).

															And partisan gerrymandering implicates the
 
First Amendment too.  That Amendment gives its greatest protection to political beliefs, speech, and association.  Yet partisan gerrymanders subject certain voters to “disfavored treatment”—again, counting their votes for less—precisely because of “their voting history [and] their expression of political views.”  Vieth, 541 U. S., at 314 (opinion of Kennedy, J.).  And added to that strictly personal harm is an associational one.  Representative democracy is “unimaginable without the ability of citizens to band together in [support of] candidates who espouse their political views.”  California Democratic Party v. Jones,

530 U.S. 567, 574 (2000).  By diluting the votes of certain citizens, the State frustrates their efforts to translate those affiliations into political effectiveness.  See Gill, 585 U. S., at ___ (Kagan, J., concurring) (slip op., at 9) (“Members of the disfavored party[,] deprived of their natural political strength[,] may face difficulties fundraising, registering voters, [and] eventually accomplishing their policy objectives”).  In both those ways, partisan gerrymanders of the kind we confront here undermine the protections of “democracy embodied in the
 
First Amendment.”  Elrod v. Burns,

427 U.S. 347, 357 (1976) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Though different Justices have described the constitutional harm in diverse ways, nearly all have agreed on this much: Extreme partisan gerrymandering (as happened in North Carolina and Maryland) violates the Constitution.  See, e.g., Vieth, 541 U. S., at 293 (plurality opinion) (“[A]n excessive injection of politics [in districting] is unlawful” (emphasis deleted)); id., at 316 (opinion of Kennedy, J.) (“[P]artisan gerrymandering that disfavors one party is [im]permissible”); id., at 362 (Breyer, J., dissenting) (Gerrymandering causing political “entrenchment” is a “violat[ion of] the Constitution’s Equal Protection Clause”); Davis v. Bandemer,

478 U.S. 109, 132 (1986) (plurality opinion) (“[U]nconstitutional discrimination” occurs “when the electoral system is arranged in a manner that will consistently degrade [a voter’s] influence on the political process”); id., at 165 (Powell, J., concurring) (“Unconstitutional gerrymandering” occurs when “the boundaries of the voting districts have been distorted deliberately” to deprive voters of “an equal opportunity to participate in the State’s legislative processes”).  Once again, the majority never disagrees; it appears to accept the “principle that each person must have an equal say in the election of representatives.”  Ante, at 20.  And indeed, without this settled and shared understanding that cases like these inflict constitutional injury, the question of whether there are judicially manageable standards for resolving them would never come up.

															II

															So the only way to understand the majority’s opinion is as follows: In the face of grievous harm to democratic governance and flagrant infringements on individuals’ rights—in the face of escalating partisan manipulation whose compatibility with this Nation’s values and law no one defends—the majority declines to provide any remedy.  For the first time in this Nation’s history, the majority declares that it can do nothing about an acknowledged constitutional violation because it has searched high and low and cannot find a workable legal standard to apply.

															The majority gives two reasons for thinking that the adjudication of partisan gerrymandering claims is beyond judicial capabilities.  First and foremost, the majority says, it cannot find a neutral baseline—one not based on contestable notions of political fairness—from which to measure injury.  See ante, at 15–19.  According to the majority, “[p]artisan gerrymandering claims invariably sound in a desire for proportional representation.”  Ante, at 16.  But the Constitution does not mandate proportional representation.  So, the majority contends, resolving those claims “inevitably” would require courts to decide what is “fair” in the context of districting.  Ante, at 17.  They would have “to make their own political judgment about how much representation particular political parties deserve” and “to rearrange the challenged districts to achieve that end.”  Ibid. (emphasis in original).  And second, the majority argues that even after establishing a baseline, a court would have no way to answer “the determinative question: ‘How much is too much?’ ”  Ante, at 19.  No “discernible and manageable” standard is available, the majority claims—and so courts could willy-nilly become embroiled in fixing every districting plan.  Ante, at 20; see ante, at 15–16.

															I’ll give the majority this one—and important—thing: It identifies some dangers everyone should want to avoid.  Judges should not be apportioning political power based on their own vision of electoral fairness, whether proportional representation or any other.  And judges should not be striking down maps left, right, and center, on the view that every smidgen of politics is a smidgen too much.  Respect for state legislative processes—and restraint in the exercise of judicial authority—counsels intervention in only egregious cases.

															But in throwing up its hands, the majority misses something under its nose: What it says can’t be done has been done.  Over the past several years, federal courts across the country—including, but not exclusively, in the decisions below—have largely converged on a standard for adjudicating partisan gerrymandering claims (striking down both Democratic and Republican districting plans in the process).  See also Ohio A. Philip Randolph Inst., 373 F. Supp. 3d 978; League of Women Voters of Michigan v. Benson, 373 F. Supp. 3d 867 (ED Mich. 2019).  And that standard does what the majority says is impossible.  The standard does not use any judge-made conception of electoral fairness—either proportional representation or any other; instead, it takes as its baseline a State’s own criteria of fairness, apart from partisan gain.  And by requiring plaintiffs to make difficult showings relating to both purpose and effects, the standard invalidates the most extreme, but only the most extreme, partisan gerrymanders.

															Below, I first explain the framework courts have developed, and describe its application in these two cases.  Doing so reveals in even starker detail than before how much these partisan gerrymanders deviated from democratic norms.  As I lay out the lower courts’ analyses, I consider two specific criticisms the majority levels—each of which reveals a saddening nonchalance about the threat such districting poses to self-governance.  All of that lays the groundwork for then assessing the majority’s more general view, described above, that judicial policing in this area cannot be either neutral or restrained.  The lower courts’ reasoning, as I’ll show, proves the opposite.

															A

															Start with the standard the lower courts used.  The majority disaggregates the opinions below, distinguishing the one from the other and then chopping up each into “a number of ‘tests.’ ”  Ante, at 22; see ante, at 22–30.  But in doing so, it fails to convey the decisions’ most significant—and common—features.  Both courts focused on the harm of vote dilution, see supra, at 11, though the North Caro- lina court mostly grounded its analysis in the
 
Fourteenth Amendment and the Maryland court in the First.  And both courts (like others around the country) used basically the same three-part test to decide whether the plaintiffs had made out a vote dilution claim.  As many legal standards do, that test has three parts: (1) intent; (2) effects; and (3) causation.  First, the plaintiffs challenging a districting plan must prove that state officials’ “predominant purpose” in drawing a district’s lines was to “entrench [their party] in power” by diluting the votes of citizens favoring its rival.  Rucho, 318 F. Supp. 3d, at 864 (quoting Arizona State Legislature, 576 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 1)).  Second, the plaintiffs must establish that the lines drawn in fact have the intended effect by “substantially” diluting their votes.  Lamone, 348 F. Supp. 3d, at 498.  And third, if the plaintiffs make those showings, the State must come up with a legitimate, non-partisan justification to save its map.  See Rucho, 318 F. Supp. 3d, at 867.[2]  If you are a lawyer, you know that this test looks utterly ordinary.  It is the sort of thing courts work with every day.

															Turn now to the test’s application.  First, did the North Carolina and Maryland districters have the predominant purpose of entrenching their own party in power?  Here, the two District Courts catalogued the overwhelming direct evidence that they did.  To remind you of some highlights, see supra, at 4–6:  North Carolina’s redistricting committee used “Partisan Advantage” as an official criterion for drawing district lines.  And from the first to the last, that committee’s chair (along with his mapmaker) acted to ensure a 10–3 partisan split, whatever the statewide vote, because he thought that “electing Republicans is better than electing Democrats.”  For their part, Maryland’s Democrats—the Governor, senior Congressman, and State Senate President alike—openly admitted to a single driving purpose: flip the Sixth District from Republican to Democratic.  They did not blanch from moving some 700,000 voters into new districts (when one-person-one-vote rules required relocating just 10,000) for that reason and that reason alone.

															The majority’s response to the District Courts’ purpose analysis is discomfiting.  The majority does not contest the lower courts’ findings; how could it?  Instead, the majority says that state officials’ intent to entrench their party in power is perfectly “permissible,” even when it is the predominant factor in drawing district lines.  Ante, at 23.  But that is wrong.  True enough, that the intent to inject “political considerations” into districting may not raise any constitutional concerns.  In Gaffney v. Cummings,

412 U.S. 735 (1973), for example, we thought it non-problematic when state officials used political data to ensure rough proportional representation between the two parties.  And true enough that even the naked purpose to gain partisan advantage may not rise to the level of constitutional notice when it is not the driving force in mapmaking or when the intended gain is slight.  See Vieth, 541 U. S., at 286 (plurality opinion).  But when political actors have a specific and predominant intent to entrench themselves in power by manipulating district lines, that goes too far.  Consider again Justice Kennedy’s hypothetical of mapmakers who set out to maximally burden (i.e., make count for as little as possible) the votes going to a rival party.  See supra, at 12.  Does the majority really think that goal is permissible?  But why even bother with hypotheticals?  Just consider the purposes here.  It cannot be permissible and thus irrelevant, as the majority claims, that state officials have as their purpose the kind of grotesquely gerrymandered map that, according to all this Court has ever said, violates the Constitution.  See supra, at 13.

															On to the second step of the analysis, where the plaintiffs must prove that the districting plan substantially dilutes their votes.  The majority fails to discuss most of the evidence the District Courts relied on to find that the plaintiffs had done so.  See ante, at 23–24.  But that evidence—particularly from North Carolina—is the key to understanding both the problem these cases present and the solution to it they offer.  The evidence reveals just how bad the two gerrymanders were (in case you had any doubts).  And it shows how the same technologies and data that today facilitate extreme partisan gerrymanders also enable courts to discover them, by exposing just how much they dilute votes.  See Vieth, 541 U. S., at 312–313 (opinion of Kennedy, J.) (predicting that development).

															Consider the sort of evidence used in North Carolina first.  There, the plaintiffs demonstrated the districting plan’s effects mostly by relying on what might be called the “extreme outlier approach.”  (Here’s a spoiler: the State’s plan was one.)  The approach—which also has recently been used in Michigan and Ohio litigation—begins by using advanced computing technology to randomly generate a large collection of districting plans that incorporate the State’s physical and political geography and meet its declared districting criteria, except for partisan gain.  For each of those maps, the method then uses actual precinct-level votes from past elections to determine a partisan outcome (i.e., the number of Democratic and Republican seats that map produces).  Suppose we now have 1,000 maps, each with a partisan outcome attached to it.  We can line up those maps on a continuum—the most favorable to Republicans on one end, the most favorable to Democrats on the other.[3]  We can then find the median outcome—that is, the outcome smack dab in the center—in a world with no partisan manipulation.  And we can see where the State’s actual plan falls on the spectrum—at or near the median or way out on one of the tails?  The further out on the tail, the more extreme the partisan distortion and the more significant the vote dilution.  See generally Brief for Eric S. Lander as Amicus Curiae 7–22.

															Using that approach, the North Carolina plaintiffs offered a boatload of alternative districting plans—all showing that the State’s map was an out-out-out-outlier.  One expert produced 3,000 maps, adhering in the way described above to the districting criteria that the North Carolina redistricting committee had used, other than partisan advantage.  To calculate the partisan outcome of those maps, the expert also used the same election data (a composite of seven elections) that Hofeller had employed when devising the North Carolina plan in the first instance.  The results were, shall we say, striking.  Every single one of the 3,000 maps would have produced at least one more Democratic House Member than the State’s actual map, and 77% would have elected three or four more.  See Rucho, 318 F. Supp. 3d, at 875–876, 894; App. 276.  A second expert obtained essentially the same results with maps conforming to more generic districting criteria (e.g., compactness and contiguity of districts).  Over 99% of that expert’s 24,518 simulations would have led to the election of at least one more Democrat, and over 70% would have led to two or three more.  See Rucho, 318 F. Supp. 3d, at 893–894.  Based on those and other findings, the District Court determined that the North Caro- lina plan substantially dilutes the plaintiffs’ votes.[4]

															Because the Maryland gerrymander involved just one district, the evidence in that case was far simpler—but no less powerful for that.  You’ve heard some of the numbers before.  See supra, at 6.  The 2010 census required only a minimal change in the Sixth District’s population—the subtraction of about 10,000 residents from more than 700,000.  But instead of making a correspondingly minimal adjustment, Democratic officials reconfigured the entire district.  They moved 360,000 residents out and another 350,000 in, while splitting some counties for the first time in almost two centuries.  The upshot was a district with 66,000 fewer Republican voters and 24,000 more Democratic ones.  In the old Sixth, 47% of registered voters were Republicans and only 36% Democrats.  But in the new Sixth, 44% of registered voters were Democrats and only 33% Republicans.  That reversal of the district’s partisan composition translated into four consecutive Democratic victories, including in a wave election year for Republicans (2014).  In what was once a party stronghold, Republicans now have little or no chance to elect their preferred candidate.  The District Court thus found that the gerrymandered Maryland map substantially dilutes Republicans’ votes.  See Lamone, 348 F. Supp. 3d, at 519–520.

															The majority claims all these findings are mere “prognostications” about the future, in which no one “can have any confidence.”  Ante, at 23 (internal quotation marks omitted).  But the courts below did not gaze into crystal balls, as the majority tries to suggest.  Their findings about these gerrymanders’ effects on voters—both in the past and predictably in the future—were evidence-based, data-based, statistics-based.  Knowledge-based, one might say.  The courts did what anyone would want a decisionmaker to do when so much hangs in the balance.  They looked hard at the facts, and they went where the facts led them.  They availed themselves of all the information that mapmakers (like Hofeller and Hawkins) and politicians (like Lewis and O’Malley) work so hard to amass and then use to make every districting decision.  They refused to content themselves with unsupported and out-of-date musings about the unpredictability of the American voter.  See ante, at 24–25; but see Brief for Political Science Professors as Amici Curiae 14–20 (citing chapter and verse to the contrary).  They did not bet America’s future—as today the majority does—on the idea that maps constructed with so much expertise and care to make electoral outcomes impervious to voting would somehow or other come apart.  They looked at the evidence—at the facts about how these districts operated—and they could reach only one conclusion.  By substantially diluting the votes of citizens favoring their rivals, the politicians of one party had succeeded in entrenching themselves in office.  They had beat democracy.

															B

															The majority’s broadest claim, as I’ve noted, is that this is a price we must pay because judicial oversight of partisan gerrymandering cannot be “politically neutral” or “manageable.”  Ante, at 19; see supra, at 14.  Courts, the majority argues, will have to choose among contested notions of electoral fairness.  (Should they take as the ideal mode of districting proportional representation, many competitive seats, adherence to traditional districting criteria, or so forth?)  See ante, at 16–19.  And even once courts have chosen, the majority continues, they will have to decide “[h]ow much is too much?”—that is, how much deviation from the chosen “touchstone” to allow?  Ante, at 19–20.  In answering that question, the majority surmises, they will likely go far too far.  See ante, at 15.  So the whole thing is impossible, the majority concludes.  To prove its point, the majority throws a bevy of question marks on the page.  (I count nine in just two paragraphs.  See ante, at 19–20.)  But it never tries to analyze the serious question presented here—whether the kind of standard developed below falls prey to those objections, or instead allows for neutral and manageable oversight.  The answer, as you’ve already heard enough to know, is the latter.  That kind of oversight is not only possible; it’s been done.

															Consider neutrality first.  Contrary to the majority’s suggestion, the District Courts did not have to—and in fact did not—choose among competing visions of electoral fairness.  That is because they did not try to compare the State’s actual map to an “ideally fair” one (whether based on proportional representation or some other criterion).  Instead, they looked at the difference between what the State did and what the State would have done if politicians hadn’t been intent on partisan gain.  Or put differently, the comparator (or baseline or touchstone) is the result not of a judge’s philosophizing but of the State’s own characteristics and judgments.  The effects evidence in these cases accepted as a given the State’s physical geography (e.g., where does the Chesapeake run?) and political geography (e.g., where do the Democrats live on top of each other?).  So the courts did not, in the majority’s words, try to “counteract ‘natural’ gerrymandering caused, for example, by the urban concentration of one party.”  Ante, at 19.  Still more, the courts’ analyses used the State’s own criteria for electoral fairness—except for naked partisan gain.  Under their approach, in other words, the State selected its own fairness baseline in the form of its other districting criteria.  All the courts did was determine how far the State had gone off that track because of its politicians’ effort to entrench themselves in office.

															The North Carolina litigation well illustrates the point.  The thousands of randomly generated maps I’ve mentioned formed the core of the plaintiffs’ case that the North Carolina plan was an “extreme[ ] outlier.”  Rucho, 318 F. Supp. 3d, at 852 (internal quotation marks omitted); see supra, at 18–20.  Those maps took the State’s political landscape as a given.  In North Carolina, for example, Democratic voters are highly concentrated in cities.  That fact was built into all the maps; it became part of the baseline.  See Rucho, 318 F. Supp. 3d, at 896–897.  On top of that, the maps took the State’s legal landscape as a given.  They incorporated the State’s districting priorities, excluding partisanship.  So in North Carolina, for example, all the maps adhered to the traditional criteria of contiguity and compactness.  See supra, at 19–20.  But the comparator maps in another State would have incorporated different objectives—say, the emphasis Arizona places on competitive districts or the requirement Iowa imposes that counties remain whole.  See Brief for Mathematicians et al. as Amici Curiae 19–20.  The point is that the assemblage of maps, reflecting the characteristics and judgments of the State itself, creates a neutral baseline from which to assess whether partisanship has run amok.  Extreme outlier as to what?  As to the other maps the State could have produced given its unique political geography and its chosen districting criteria.  Not as to the maps a judge, with his own view of electoral fairness, could have dreamed up.

															The Maryland court lacked North Carolina’s fancy evidence, but analyzed the gerrymander’s effects in much the same way—not as against an ideal goal, but as against an ex ante baseline.  To see the difference, shift gears for a moment and compare Maryland and Massachusetts—both of which (aside from Maryland’s partisan gerrymander) use traditional districting criteria.  In those two States alike, Republicans receive about 35% of the vote in statewide elections.  See Almanac of American Politics 2016, at 836, 880.  But the political geography of the States differs.  In Massachusetts, the Republican vote is spread evenly across the State; because that is so, districting plans (using traditional criteria of contiguity and compactness) consistently lead to an all-Democratic congressional delegation.  By contrast, in Maryland, Republicans are clumped—into the Eastern Shore (the First District) and the Northwest Corner (the old Sixth).  Claims of partisan gerrymandering in those two States could come out the same way if judges, à la the majority, used their own visions of fairness to police districting plans; a judge in each State could then insist, in line with proportional representation, that 35% of the vote share entitles citizens to around that much of the delegation.  But those suits would not come out the same if courts instead asked: What would have happened, given the State’s natural political geography and chosen districting criteria, had officials not indulged in partisan manipulation?  And that is what the District Court in Maryland inquired into.  The court did not strike down the new Sixth District because a judicial ideal of proportional representation commanded another Republican seat.  It invalidated that district because the quest for partisan gain made the State override its own political geography and districting criteria.  So much, then, for the impossibility of neutrality.

															The majority’s sole response misses the point.  According to the majority, “it does not make sense to use” a State’s own (non-partisan) districting criteria as the baseline from which to measure partisan gerrymandering because those criteria “will vary from State to State and year to year.”  Ante, at 27.  But that is a virtue, not a vice—a feature, not a bug.  Using the criteria the State itself has chosen at the relevant time prevents any judicial predilections from affecting the analysis—exactly what the majority claims it wants.  At the same time, using those criteria enables a court to measure just what it should: the extent to which the pursuit of partisan advantage—by these legislators at this moment—has distorted the State’s districting decisions.  Sure, different non-partisan criteria could result, as the majority notes, in different partisan distributions to serve as the baseline.  Ante, at 28.  But that in itself raises no issue: Everyone agrees that state officials using non-partisan criteria (e.g., must counties be kept together? should districts be compact?) have wide latitude in districting.  The problem arises only when legislators or mapmakers substantially deviate from the baseline distribution by manipulating district lines for partisan gain.  So once again, the majority’s analysis falters because it equates the demand to eliminate partisan gerrymandering with a demand for a single partisan distribution—the one reflecting proportional representation.  See ante, at 16–17.  But those two demands are different, and only the former is at issue here.

															The majority’s “how much is too much” critique fares no better than its neutrality argument.  How about the following for a first-cut answer: This much is too much.  By any measure, a map that produces a greater partisan skew than any of 3,000 randomly generated maps (all with the State’s political geography and districting criteria built in) reflects “too much” partisanship.  Think about what I just said: The absolute worst of 3,001 possible maps.  The only one that could produce a 10–3 partisan split even as Republicans got a bare majority of the statewide vote.  And again: How much is too much?  This much is too much: A map that without any evident non-partisan districting reason (to the contrary) shifted the composition of a district from 47% Republicans and 36% Democrats to 33% Republicans and 42% Democrats.  A map that in 2011 was responsible for the largest partisan swing of a congressional district in the country.  See Lamone, 348 F. Supp. 3d, at 519.  Even the majority acknowledges that “[t]hese cases involve blatant examples of partisanship driving districting decisions.”  Ante, at 27.  If the majority had done nothing else, it could have set the line here.  How much is too much?  At the least, any gerrymanders as bad as these.

															And if the majority thought that approach too case-specific, see ante, at 28, it could have used the lower courts’ general standard—focusing on “predominant” purpose and “substantial” effects—without fear of indeterminacy.  I do not take even the majority to claim that courts are incapable of investigating whether legislators mainly intended to seek partisan advantage.  See ante, at 19–20 (focusing on the difficulty of measuring effects).  That is for good reason.  Although purpose inquiries carry certain hazards (which courts must attend to), they are a common form of analysis in constitutional cases.  See, e.g., Miller v. Johnson,

515 U.S. 900, 916 (1995); Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah,

508 U.S. 520, 533 (1993); Washington v. Davis,

426 U.S. 229, 239 (1976).  Those inquiries would be no harder here than in other contexts.

															Nor is there any reason to doubt, as the majority does, the competence of courts to determine whether a district map “substantially” dilutes the votes of a rival party’s supporters from the everything-but-partisanship baseline described above.  (Most of the majority’s difficulties here really come from its idea that ideal visions set the baseline.  But that is double-counting—and, as already shown, wrong to boot.)  As this Court recently noted, “the law is full of instances” where a judge’s decision rests on “estimating rightly . . . some matter of degree”—including the “substantial[ity]” of risk or harm.  Johnson v. United States, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 12) (internal quotation marks omitted); see, e.g., Ohio v. American Express Co., 585 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 9) (determining “substantial anticompetitive effect[s]” when applying the Sherman Act); United States v. Davis, ante, at 7–10 (Kavanaugh, J., dissenting) (cataloging countless statutes requiring a “substantial” risk of harm).  The majority is wrong to think that these laws typically (let alone uniformly) further “confine[ ] and guide[ ]” judicial decisionmaking.  Ante, at 28.  They do not, either in themselves or through “statutory context.”  Ibid.  To the extent additional guidance has developed over the years (as under the Sherman Act), courts themselves have been its author—as they could be in this context too.  And contrary to the majority’s suggestion, see ibid., courts all the time make judgments about the substantiality of harm without reducing them to particular percentages.  If courts are no longer competent to do so, they will have to relinquish, well, substantial portions of their docket.

															And the combined inquiry used in these cases set the bar high, so that courts could intervene in the worst partisan gerrymanders, but no others.  Or to say the same thing, so that courts could intervene in the kind of extreme gerrymanders that nearly every Justice for decades has thought to violate the Constitution.  See supra, at 13.  Illicit purpose was simple to show here only because politicians and mapmakers thought their actions could not be attacked in court.  See Rucho, 318 F. Supp. 3d, at 808 (quoting Lewis’s statements to that effect).  They therefore felt free to openly proclaim their intent to entrench their party in office.  See supra, at 4–6.  But if the Court today had declared that behavior justiciable, such smoking guns would all but disappear.  Even assuming some officials continued to try implementing extreme partisan gerrymanders,[5] they would not brag about their efforts.  So plaintiffs would have to prove the intent to entrench through circumstantial evidence—essentially showing that no other explanation (no geographic feature or non-partisan districting objective) could explain the districting plan’s vote dilutive effects.  And that would be impossible unless those effects were even more than substantial—unless mapmakers had packed and cracked with abandon in unprecedented ways.  As again, they did here.  That the two courts below found constitutional violations does not mean their tests were unrigorous; it means that the conduct they confronted was constitutionally appalling—by even the strictest measure, inordinately partisan.

															The majority, in the end, fails to understand both the plaintiffs’ claims and the decisions below.  Everything in today’s opinion assumes that these cases grew out of a “desire for proportional representation” or, more generally phrased, a “fair share of political power.”  Ante, at 16, 21.  And everything in it assumes that the courts below had to (and did) decide what that fair share would be.  But that is not so.  The plaintiffs objected to one specific practice—the extreme manipulation of district lines for partisan gain.  Elimination of that practice could have led to proportional representation.  Or it could have led to nothing close.  What was left after the practice’s removal could have been fair, or could have been unfair, by any number of measures.  That was not the crux of this suit.  The plaintiffs asked only that the courts bar politicians from entrenching themselves in power by diluting the votes of their rivals’ supporters.  And the courts, using neutral and manageable—and eminently legal—standards, provided that (and only that) relief.  This Court should have cheered, not overturned, that restoration of the people’s power to vote.

															III

															This Court has long understood that it has a special responsibility to remedy violations of constitutional rights resulting from politicians’ districting decisions.  Over 50 years ago, we committed to providing judicial review in that sphere, recognizing as we established the one-person-one-vote rule that “our oath and our office require no less.”  Reynolds, 377 U. S., at 566.  Of course, our oath and our office require us to vindicate all constitutional rights.  But the need for judicial review is at its most urgent in cases like these.  “For here, politicians’ incentives conflict with voters’ interests, leaving citizens without any political remedy for their constitutional harms.”  Gill, 585 U. S., at ___ (Kagan, J., concurring) (slip op., at 14).  Those harms arise because politicians want to stay in office.  No one can look to them for effective relief.

															The majority disagrees, concluding its opinion with a paean to congressional bills limiting partisan gerrymanders.  “Dozens of [those] bills have been introduced,” the majority says.  Ante, at 33.  One was “introduced in 2005 and has been reintroduced in every Congress since.”  Ibid.  And might be reintroduced until the end of time.  Because what all these bills have in common is that they are not laws.  The politicians who benefit from partisan gerrymandering are unlikely to change partisan gerrymandering.  And because those politicians maintain themselves in office through partisan gerrymandering, the chances for legislative reform are slight.

															 No worries, the majority says; it has another idea.  The majority notes that voters themselves have recently approved ballot initiatives to put power over districting in the hands of independent commissions or other non-partisan actors.  See ante, at 32.  Some Members of the majority, of course, once thought such initiatives unconstitutional.  See Arizona State Legislature, 576 U. S., at ___ (Roberts, C. J., dissenting) (slip op., at 1).  But put that aside.  Fewer than half the States offer voters an opportunity to put initiatives to direct vote; in all the rest (including North Carolina and Maryland), voters are dependent on legislators to make electoral changes (which for all the reasons already given, they are unlikely to do).  And even when voters have a mechanism they can work themselves, legislators often fight their efforts tooth and nail.  Look at Missouri.  There, the majority touts a voter-approved proposal to turn districting over to a state demographer.  See ante, at 32.  But before the demographer had drawn a single line, Members of the state legislature had introduced a bill to start undoing the change.  See Mo. H. J. Res. 48, 100th Gen. Assembly, 1st Reg. Sess. (2019).  I’d put better odds on that bill’s passage than on all the congressional proposals the majority cites.

															The majority’s most perplexing “solution” is to look to state courts.  Ante, at 30.  “[O]ur conclusion,” the majority states, does not “condemn complaints about districting to echo into a void”: Just a few years back, “the Supreme Court of Florida struck down that State’s congressional districting plan as a violation” of the State Constitution.  Ante, at 31; see League of Women Voters of Florida v. Detzner, 172 So. 3d 363 (2015).  And indeed, the majority might have added, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania last year did the same thing.  See League of Women Voters, ___ Pa., at ___, 178 A. 3d, at 818.  But what do those courts know that this Court does not?  If they can develop and apply neutral and manageable standards to identify unconstitutional gerrymanders, why couldn’t we?[6]

															We could have, and we should have.  The gerrymanders here—and they are typical of many—violated the constitutional rights of many hundreds of thousands of American citizens.  Those voters (Republicans in the one case, De- mocrats in the other) did not have an equal opportunity to participate in the political process.  Their votes counted for far less than they should have because of their partisan affiliation.  When faced with such constitutional wrongs, courts must intervene: “It is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to say what the law is.”  Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 177 (1803).  That is what the courts below did.  Their decisions are worth a read.  They (and others that have recently remedied similar violations) are detailed, thorough, painstaking.  They evaluated with immense care the factual evidence and legal arguments the parties presented.  They used neutral and manageable and strict standards.  They had not a shred of politics about them.  Contra the majority, see ante, at 34, this was law.

															That is not to deny, of course, that these cases have great political consequence.  They do.  Among the amicus briefs here is one from a bipartisan group of current and former Members of the House of Representatives.  They describe all the ways partisan gerrymandering harms our political system—what they call “a cascade of negative results.”  Brief as Amicus Curiae 5.  These artificially drawn districts shift influence from swing voters to party-base voters who participate in primaries; make bipartisanship and pragmatic compromise politically difficult or impossible; and drive voters away from an ever more dysfunctional political process.  See id., at 5–6.  Last year, we heard much the same from current and former state legislators.  In their view, partisan gerrymandering has “sounded the death-knell of bipartisanship,” creating a legislative environment that is “toxic” and “tribal.”  Brief as Amicus Curiae in Gill v. Whitford, O. T. 2016, No. 16–1161, pp. 6, 25.  Gerrymandering, in short, helps create the polarized political system so many Americans loathe.

															And gerrymandering is, as so many Justices have emphasized before, anti-democratic in the most profound sense.  See supra, at 7–8.  In our government, “all political power flows from the people.”  Arizona State Legislature, 576 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 35).  And that means, as Alexander Hamilton once said, “that the people should choose whom they please to govern them.”  2 Debates on the Constitution 257 (J. Elliot ed. 1891).  But in Maryland and North Carolina they cannot do so.  In Maryland, election in and election out, there are 7 Democrats and 1 Republican in the congressional delegation.  In North Carolina, however the political winds blow, there are 10 Republicans and 3 Democrats.  Is it conceivable that someday voters will be able to break out of that prefabricated box?  Sure.  But everything possible has been done to make that hard.  To create a world in which power does not flow from the people because they do not choose their governors.

															Of all times to abandon the Court’s duty to declare the law, this was not the one.  The practices challenged in these cases imperil our system of government.  Part of the Court’s role in that system is to defend its foundations.  None is more important than free and fair elections.  With respect but deep sadness, I dissent.
Notes
1
 And even putting that aside, any originalist argument would have to deal with an inconvenient fact.  The Framers originally viewed political parties themselves (let alone their most partisan actions) with deep suspicion, as fomenters of factionalism and “symptom[s] of disease in the body politic.”  G. Wood, Empire of Liberty: A History of the Early Republic, 1789–1815, p. 140 (2009). 

2
 Neither North Carolina nor Maryland offered much of an alternative explanation for the evidence that the plaintiffs put forward.  Presumably, both States had trouble coming up with something.  Like the majority, see ante, at 25, I therefore pass quickly over this part of the test. 

3
 As I’ll discuss later, this distribution of outcomes provides what the majority says does not exist—a neutral comparator for the State’s own plan.  See ante, at 16–19; supra, at 14; infra, at 22–25.  It essentially answers the question: In a State with these geographic features and this distribution of voters and this set of districting criteria—but without partisan manipulation—what would happen? 

4
 The District Court also relied on actual election results (under both the new plan and the similar one preceding it) and on mathematical measurements of the new plan’s “partisan asymmetry.”  See Rucho, 318 F. Supp. 3d, at 884–895.  Those calculations assess whether supporters of the two parties can translate their votes into representation with equal ease.  See Stephanopoulos & McGhee, The Measure of a Metric, 70 Stan. L. Rev. 1503, 1505–1507 (2018).  The court found that the new North Carolina plan led to extreme asymmetry, compared both to plans used in the rest of the country and to plans previously used in the State.  See Rucho, 318 F. Supp. 3d, at 886–887, 892–893. 

5
 A decision of this Court invalidating the North Carolina and Maryland gerrymanders would of course have curbed much of that behavior.  In districting cases no less than others, officials respond to what this Court determines the law to sanction.  See, e.g., Charles & Fuentes-Rohwer, Judicial Intervention as Judicial Restraint, 132 Harv. L. Rev. 236, 269 (2018) (discussing how the Court’s prohibition of racial gerrymanders affected districting). 

6
 Contrary to the majority’s suggestion, state courts do not typically have more specific “standards and guidance” to apply than federal courts have.  Ante, at 31.  The Pennsylvania Supreme Court based its gerrymandering decision on a constitutional clause providing only that “elections shall be free and equal” and no one shall “interfere to prevent the free exercise of the right of suffrage.”  League of Women Voters, ___ Pa., at ___–___, 178 A. 3d, at 803–804 (quoting Pa. Const., Art. I, §5).  And even the Florida “Free Districts Amendment,” which the majority touts, says nothing more than that no districting plan “shall be drawn with the intent to favor or disfavor a political party.”  Fla. Const., Art. III, §20(a).  If the majority wants the kind of guidance that will keep courts from intervening too far in the political sphere, see ante, at 15, that Amendment does not provide it: The standard is in fact a good deal less exacting than the one the District Courts below applied.  In any event, only a few States have a constitutional provision like Florida’s, so the majority’s state-court solution does not go far. 


