::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-071
::decision_cite:: 18-457
::decision_name::  North Carolina Department of Revenue v. Kimberley Rice Kaestner 1992 Family Trust
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–457

															_________________

															NORTH CAROLINA DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE, PETITIONER v. THE KIMBERLEY RICE  KAESTNER 1992 FAMILY TRUST

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of  north carolina

															[June 21, 2019]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom The Chief Justice and Justice Gorsuch join, concurring.

															I join the opinion of the Court because it properly concludes that North Carolina’s tenuous connection to the income earned by the trust is insufficient to permit the State to tax the trust’s income.  Because this connection is unusually tenuous, the opinion of the Court is circumscribed.  I write separately to make clear that the opinion of the Court merely applies our existing precedent and that its decision not to answer questions not presented by the facts of this case does not open for reconsideration any points resolved by our prior decisions.

															*  *  *

															Kimberley Rice Kaestner is the beneficiary of a trust established by her father.  She is also a resident of North Carolina.  Between 2005 and 2008, North Carolina required the trustee, who is a resident of Connecticut, to pay more than $1.3 million in taxes on income earned by the assets in the trust.  North Carolina levied this tax because of Kaestner’s residence within the State.

															States have broad discretion to structure their tax systems.  But, in a few narrow areas, the Federal Constitution imposes limits on that power.  See, e.g., McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316 (1819); Comptroller of Treasury of Md. v. Wynne, 575 U. S. ___ (2015).  The Due Process Clause creates one such limit.  It imposes restrictions on the persons and property that a State can subject to its taxation authority.  “The Due Process Clause ‘requires some definite link, some minimum connection, between a state and the person, property or transaction it seeks to tax.’ ”  Quill Corp. v. North Dakota,

504 U.S. 298, 306 (1992) (quoting Miller Brothers Co. v. Maryland,

347 U.S. 340, 344–345 (1954)), overruled in part on other grounds by South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., 585 U. S. ___ (2018).  North Carolina assesses this tax against the trustee and calculates the tax based on the income earned by the trust.  N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §105–160.2 (2017).  Therefore we must look at the connections between the assets held in trust and the State.

															It is easy to identify a State’s connection with tangible assets.  A tangible asset has a connection with the State in which it is located, and generally speaking, only that State has power to tax the asset.  Curry v. McCanless,

307 U.S. 357, 364–365 (1939).  Intangible assets—stocks, bonds, or other securities, for example—present a more difficult question.

															In the case of intangible assets held in trust, we have previously asked whether a resident of the State imposing the tax has control, possession, or the enjoyment of the asset.  See Greenough v. Tax Assessors of Newport,

331 U.S. 486, 493–495 (1947); Curry, supra, at 370–371; Safe Deposit & Trust Co. of Baltimore v. Virginia,

280 U.S. 83, 93–94 (1929); Brooke v. Norfolk,

277 U.S. 27, 28–29 (1928).  Because a trustee is the legal owner of the trust assets and possesses the powers that accompany that status—power to manage the investments, to make and enforce contracts respecting the assets, to litigate on behalf of the trust, etc.—the trustee’s State of residence can tax the trust’s intangible assets.  Greenough, supra, at 494, 498.  Here, we are asked whether the connection between a beneficiary and a trust is sufficient to allow the beneficiary’s State of residence to tax the trust assets and the income they earn while the assets and income remain in the trust in another State.  Two cases provide a clear answer.

															In Brooke, Virginia assessed a tax on the assets of a trust whose beneficiary was a resident of Virginia.  The trustee was not a resident of Virginia and administered the trust outside the Commonwealth.  Under the terms of the trust, the beneficiary was entitled to all the income of the trust and had paid income taxes for the money that had been transferred to her.  But the Court held that, despite the beneficiary’s present and ongoing right to receive income from the trust, Virginia could not impose taxes on the undistributed assets that remained within the trust because “the property is not within the State, does not belong to the petitioner and is not within her possession or control.”  277 U. S., at 29.  Even though the beneficiary was entitled to and received income from the trust, we observed that “she [wa]s a stranger” to the assets within the trust because she lacked control, possession, or enjoyment of them.  Ibid.

															In Safe Deposit, Virginia again attempted to assess taxes on the intangible assets held in a trust whose trustee resided in Maryland.  The beneficiaries were children who lived in Virginia.  Under the terms of the trust, each child was entitled to one half of the trust’s assets (both the original principal and the income earned over time) when the child reached the age of 25.  Despite their entitlement to the entire corpus of the trust, the Court held that the beneficiaries’ residence did not allow Virginia to tax the assets while they remained in trust.  “[N]obody within Virginia has present right to [the assets’] control or possession, or to receive income therefrom, or to cause them to be brought physically within her borders.”  280 U. S., at 91.[1]*  The beneficiaries’ equitable ownership of the trust did not sufficiently connect the undistributed assets to Virginia as to allow taxation of the trust.  The beneficiaries’ equitable ownership yielded to the “established fact of legal ownership, actual presence and control elsewhere.”  Id., at 92.

															Here, as in Brooke and Safe Deposit, the resident beneficiary has neither control nor possession of the intangible assets in the trust.  She does not enjoy the use of the trust assets.  The trustee administers the trust and holds the trust assets outside the State of North Carolina.  Under Safe Deposit and Brooke, that is sufficient to establish that North Carolina cannot tax the trust or the trustee on the intangible assets held by the trust.

															*  *  *

															The Due Process Clause requires a sufficient connection between an asset and a State before the State can tax the asset.  For intangible assets held in trust, our precedents dictate that a resident beneficiary’s control, possession, and ability to use or enjoy the asset are the core of the inquiry.  The opinion of the Court rightly concludes that the assets in this trust and the trust’s undistributed income cannot be taxed by North Carolina because the resident beneficiary lacks control, possession, or enjoyment of the trust assets.  The Court’s discussion of the peculiarities of this trust does not change the governing standard, nor does it alter the reasoning applied in our earlier cases.  On that basis, I concur.
Notes
1
*Although the Court noted that no Virginian had a present right “to receive income therefrom,” Brooke—where the beneficiary was entitled to and received income from the trust—suggests that even if the children had such a right, it would not, alone, justify taxing the trust corpus. 


