::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-013
::decision_cite:: 18-565
::decision_name::  CITGO Asphalt Refining Co. v. Frescati Shipping Co.
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–565

															_________________

															CITGO ASPHALT REFINING COMPANY, et al., PETITIONERS v. FRESCATI SHIPPING COMPANY, LTD., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit

															[March 30, 2020]

															

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito joins,  dissenting.

															The majority concludes that the safe-berth clause in the contract at issue unambiguously created a warranty of safety by the charterer.  Although this interpretation provides a clear background rule for the maritime industry to contract against, it is the wrong rule and finds no basis in the contract’s plain text.  I would hold that the plain language of the safe-berth clause contains no warranty of safety and remand for factfinding on whether industry custom and usage establish such a warranty in this case.  Accordingly, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															In 2001, Star Tankers Inc. (Star) entered into a voyage charter party with CITGO Asphalt Refining Company (CARCO).  That contract included a safe-berth clause that provided:

															“SAFE BERTHING — SHIFTING.  The vessel shall load and discharge at any safe place or wharf, or alongside vessels or lighters reachable on her arrival, which shall be designated and procured by the Charterer, provided the Vessel can proceed thereto, lie at, and depart therefrom always safely afloat, any lighterage being at the expense, risk and peril of the Charterer.”  Addendum to Brief for Petitioners 8a.

															I agree with the majority that we must interpret the safe-berth clause “by [its] terms and consistent with the intent of the parties.”  Norfolk Southern R. Co. v. James N. Kirby, Pty Ltd.,

543 U.S. 14, 31 (2004).  Unlike the majority, however, I conclude that the plain meaning of the safe-berth clause does not include a warranty of safety.

															A

															The safe-berth clause sets out the rights and obligations of the vessel master and the charterer.  The clause requires the vessel master to “load and discharge at [a] safe place or wharf,” but it also gives the master the right to refuse to proceed if the vessel cannot “lie at, and depart therefrom always safely afloat.”  Addendum to Brief for Petitioners 8a.  The charterer has the right to “designat[e]” a “safe place or wharf ” for discharge.  Ibid.  That right, however, must be exercised by the charterer, see ibid. (using mandatory language), and the act of designation must be made in good faith, see Restatement (Second) of Contracts §205 (1979).  The right to designate is limited to places that the vessel can reach, with the charterer bearing the “expense, risk and peril” of any “lighterage” (i.e., transfer of cargo by means of another vessel) resulting from its selection.  Addendum to Brief for Petitioners 8a.  As the leading admiralty treatise succinctly explains, the safe-berth clause provides that “if the port or the berth is unsafe, the master is excused from taking his ship in, and the charterer must bear the extra expense . . . entailed by [a proper] refusal” of its selected place of discharge.  G. Gilmore & C. Black, Law of Admiralty §4–4, p. 204 (2d ed. 1975).[1]  

															This reading is consistent with this Court’s prior decisions.  The Court has interpreted safe-berth clauses as providing a limit on the “right to select a dock.”  Mencke v. Cargo of Java Sugar,

187 U.S. 248, 253 (1902); see also The Gazelle and Cargo,

128 U.S. 474, 485–486 (1888) (holding that the right of selection is limited by the terms of the contract).  And it has concluded that, if a charterer selects a place of discharge that cannot be safely reached, the charterer is liable for lighterage expenses.  Mencke, 187 U. S., at 253–254.

															Thus, under the plain language of the safe-berth clause, the vessel master has a duty of discharge and right of refusal, while the charterer has a right of selection and duty to pay for lighterage.

															B

															The majority does not disagree that the safe-berth clause confers these duties and rights.  Quite the opposite.  It recognizes our precedents as embracing this understanding.  Ante, at 11.  The majority concludes, however, that in addition to the rights of selection and refusal, the language of the safe-berth clause “unambiguously” establishes a warranty of safety by the charterer.  Ante, at 15.  With this, I cannot agree.

															1

															The majority first concludes that the safe-berth clause contains an “express prescription of a warranty of safety.”  Ante, at 11; see also ante, at 6.  This assertion finds no support whatsoever in the plain language of the clause.

															First of all, the contract between Star and CARCO contains no express warranty of safety by the charterer, though the parties repeatedly used express language to create warranties elsewhere in the contract.  See Addendum to Brief for Petitioners 26a (“Charterer’s warrant . . .”), 30a (“Owners warrant . . .”), ibid. (“Owner warrants . . .”), 31a (“Owner warrants . . .”), 41a (“Owner warrants . . .”), 42a (“Owner warrants . . .”), 43a (“Owner warrants . . .”), 44a (“Owner warrants . . .”), 45a (“Owner warrants . . .”).  In contrast, they did not state that the charterer “warrants” the safety of the place of discharge in the safe-berth clause.  As the majority obliquely recognizes—when trying to rebut a different argument—“[t]hat omission is particularly notable in context: Where the parties intended to [create warranties] elsewhere in the charter party, they did so expressly.”  Ante, at 9.  “That the parties did not do so in the safe-berth clause specifically is . . . proof that they did not intend for such a . . . limitation to inhere impliedly.”  Ante, at 9–10.[2]

															But even setting aside this evidence of the parties’ intent (as the majority does), the safe-berth clause contains no language that can be construed to create a warranty of safety.  Nor does the clause so much as suggest that the charterer is liable for all damages arising out of unsafe port conditions.  In fact, the trade association that promulgated the ASBATANKVOY form used in this case specifically acknowledged that the language of “the clause does not specify whether the charterer absolutely warrants the safety of the berth.”  Brief for Maritime Law Association of the United States and the Association of Ship Brokers & Agents (USA) Inc. as Amici Curiae on Pet. for Cert. 19 (emphasis added).

															Notwithstanding this, the majority states that the clause “requires the charterer to designate a ‘safe’ berth” and that requirement “binds the charterer to a warranty of safety.”  Ante, at 6.  But certainly not every obligation in a contract is a warranty.  See Brooks, Tarlton, Gilbert, Douglas & Kressler v. United States Fire Ins. Co., 832 F.2d 1358, 1375, n. 14 (CA5 1987).  Parties often agree to obligations that govern only their conduct without making any assurances as to an ultimate result.  For example, “[a] promise to repair parts of [a] powertrain for six years is a promise that the manufacturer will behave in a certain way, not a warranty that the vehicle will behave in a certain way.”  Cosman v. Ford Motor Co., 285 Ill. App. 3d 250, 257, 674 N.E.2d 61, 66 (1996).  The majority does not confront, or even acknowledge, this distinction.  Instead, it indifferently conflates a duty to take a certain action—“designat[e]” a wharf understood to be safe—with a warranty guaranteeing a certain result—the ultimate safety of the berth.[3]

															By conflating an action with an outcome, the majority converts every obligation tangentially related to safety into a warranty of safety.  Consider the contract in this case, for example.  If the language stating that the charterer “shall . . . designat[e] and procur[e]” a “safe place or wharf ” creates a warranty of safety, then so does the language stating that “[t]he vessel shall load and discharge at [a] safe place or wharf.”  Addendum to Brief for Petitioners 8a.  There is no textual reason that an obligation to “designat[e]” is  any different from an obligation to “discharge.”  Ibid.  And policy-based rationalizations cannot justify a distinction because “[n]either tort principles nor policy objectives . . . override the safe-berth clause’s unambiguous meaning.”  Ante, at 14.  Thus, employing the majority’s approach, the safe-berth clause contains two competing warranties of safety—one from the charterer and one from the vessel master—that could impose conflicting obligations.[4]  Courts typically avoid construing contracts in such a manner.  See Mastrobuono v. Shearson Lehman Hutton, Inc.,

514 U.S. 52, 64 (1995) (rejecting an interpretation that the Court believed “se[t] up . . . two clauses in conflict with one another”); United States v. Pielago, 135 F.3d 703, 710 (CA11 1998) (“It is a cardinal principle of contract law that no term of a contract should be construed to be in conflict with another unless no other reasonable construction is possible”).  Setting aside this contract, the majority makes no attempt to limit its expansive interpretive approach or provide the barest of explanation as to why all obligations that involve the word “safe” should not be construed as warranties of safety.

															In a contract replete with express language creating warranties, I would not construe the plain language of the safe-berth clause as indirectly creating contradictory warranties of safety.  And I certainly cannot agree with the majority’s conclusion that the safe-berth clause “unambiguously” establishes a warranty of safety by the charterer.  Ante, at 15.

															2

															Perhaps recognizing the weakness of its assertion that the safe-berth clause contains a duty or warranty of safety, the majority pivots to an independent legal theory.  It claims that the safe-berth clause constitutes a material statement of fact and therefore creates a warranty.  Ante, at 7.  The majority’s invocation of this theory is puzzling, to say the least.

															As an initial matter, this issue was not preserved in the Court of Appeals, which, understandably, did not address the question.  In re Frescati Shipping Co., Ltd., 718 F.3d 184, 200–203 (CA3 2013).  Nor was the issue developed before this Court.  All we have before us is one conclusory para- graph in the United States’ brief.  See Brief for United States 25.  Accordingly, I would decline to address this unpreserved and undeveloped issue.

															Even setting aside forfeiture, the majority’s analysis is questionable in multiple respects.  First, the majority asserts that “the safe-berth clause contains a statement of material fact regarding the condition of the berth selected by the charterer.”  Ante, at 7.  Not so.  The safe-berth clause says nothing about the safety of the port actually selected by CARCO (the Paulsboro berth), or any specific berth for that matter.  It states only that the charter “shall . . . designat[e]” a place or wharf.  The majority infers from CARCO’s selection of the Paulsboro berth that CARCO believed the place or wharf was safe.  But that is not a statement of fact; it is an inference.  I hesitate to equate the two without briefing on the issue, or even a single example of a court adopting this approach.

															Second, even assuming the safe-berth clause contains a statement of fact, it is not clear that the Court is in a position to decide whether that statement of fact is “material.”  Many jurisdictions appear to treat materiality as a question of fact when determining whether a statement creates a warranty.  Royal Bus. Machines, Inc. v. Lorraine Corp., 633 F.2d 34, 43 (CA7 1980) (“Whether a seller affirmed a fact or made a promise amounting to a warranty is a question of fact reserved for the trier of fact”); McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Thiokol Corp., 124 F.3d 1173, 1176 (CA9 1997) (“Whether the seller’s representations formed part of the basis of the parties’ bargain is a question of fact”); Crothers v. Cohen, 384 N.W.2d 562, 563 (Minn. App. 1986) (“Whether a given representation constitutes a warranty is ordinarily a question of fact for the jury”); General Supply & Equip. Co. v. Phillips, 490 S.W.2d 913, 917 (Tex. Civ. App. 1972) (citing cases from Illinois, Iowa, Alabama, and Ohio).  And “our cases have recognized in other contexts that the materiality inquiry, involving as it does ‘delicate assessments of the inferences a “reasonable [decisionmaker]” would draw from a given set of facts and the significance of those inferences to him, . . . [is] peculiarly on[e] for the trier of fact.’ ”  United States v. Gaudin,

515 U.S. 506, 512 (1995).  Although this Court has relied on factual findings to support a materiality conclusion, Davison v. Von Lingen,

113 U.S. 40, 50 (1885), I am not aware of a case in which this Court has treated the materiality inquiry as a pure question of law without relying on any factual findings whatsoever.  Again, without briefing on this issue, I would hesitate to depart, without explanation, from the approach taken by many courts throughout the country.

															Third, assuming the contract contains a statement of fact regarding the safety of the berth and further assuming that materiality is a question of law, I am unpersuaded by the majority’s materiality analysis.  Materiality must turn at least in part on a statement’s “tendency to induce the making of the contract.”  22 R. Lord, Williston on Contracts §58.11, p. 41 (4th ed. 2017).  The majority’s opinion says nothing about that (likely fact-driven) question.  It first states that the safety of the selected berth is “the entire root of the safe-berth clause” and “the very reason for the clause’s inclusion.”  Ante, at 7.  Even accepting the majority’s interpretation, merely proving that a statement is included in a contract does not mean that it is material.  If that were the law, then every statement in a contract would be material and therefore constitute a warranty.  That cannot be right.  The majority next concludes that “[u]nder any conception of materiality and any view of the parties’ intent, the charterer’s assurance [of safety with no conditions] surely counts as material.”  Ibid.  But what is the basis for this conclusion?  The majority’s experience negotiating maritime contracts?  It defies reality to assert that a standard provision in a form contract—which has been subject to different interpretations for nearly three decades—induced every single vessel master using that form contract to enter into the agreement.  We should recognize this for what it is: an unsupported judicial pronouncement on a question of fact.

															The majority’s attempt to shore up its analysis with its alternative statement-of-fact theory makes no difference to the outcome of this case, because the majority erroneously holds that the safe-berth clause contains an absolute duty that was breached.  See ante, at 6; supra, at 3–7.  But its unreasoned dicta will undoubtedly cause problems for lower courts and parties in the future.

															II

															The lack of unambiguous language creating a warranty of safety in the safe-berth clause does not end our inquiry.  “ ‘In this endeavor, as with any other contract, the parties’ intentions control.’ ”  M&G Polymers USA, LLC v. Tackett,

574 U.S. 427, 435 (2015) (quoting Stolt-Nielsen S. A. v. AnimalFeeds Int’l Corp.,

559 U.S. 662, 682 (2010)); see also ante, at 5–6.  The vessel’s owner and the United States argue that, setting aside the plain meaning of the contract’s text, longstanding industry custom supports interpreting the safe-berth clause as a warranty of safety.  I would remand for factfinding on this issue.

															Under both “general maritime law” and ordinary principles of contract interpretation, evidence of an established “custom and usage” can be used as an aid to “determin[e] the parties’ intent” and the meaning of the language included in the contract.  Stolt-Nielsen, 559 U. S., at 674, n. 6 (internal quotation marks omitted); see also U. C. C. §1–303 Comment 3 (2017); Restatement (Second) of Contracts §220.  But “the existence and scope of a particular usage is usually a question of fact.” Sun Oil Co. v. Wortman,

486 U.S. 717, 732, n. 4 (1988); see also U. C. C. §1–303(c); Restatement (Second) of Contracts §219, Comment a; §222(2).  Here, we have no factual findings from the District Court to support a custom-or-usage argument.  Such findings seem particularly necessary in this case: “A trade usage can of course be confined to a particular geographical area,” 5 M. Kniffin, Corbin on Contracts §24.13, p. 110 (J. Perillo ed., rev. 1998), and different areas of the country appeared to have different understandings of the safe-berth clause at the time of contracting.  See ante, at 5 (recognizing Circuit split); Brief for North American Export Grain Association as Amicus Curiae 9 (stating that in “New Orleans . . . safe-berth clauses are understood to impose due diligence obligations”).  Accordingly, I would remand for factual findings on the question whether the parties entered into the charter party with knowledge of an established custom or usage.

															*  *  *

															I appreciate the majority’s desire to interpret the safe-berth clause in a manner that provides clarity to the maritime industry.  The plain meaning of the contract’s text, however, does not support the majority’s interpretation.  Fortunately, the majority’s opinion applies only to this specific contract, and its assertions regarding a material statement of fact are but dicta.  Because I would reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand for further proceedings, I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 The majority states that the views of Gilmore and Black “stemmed from their belief that vessel masters or vessel owners are generally better positioned than charterers to bear the liability of an unsafe berth.”  Ante, at 13.  While the treatise does contain policy-based arguments, it also looks to “the very words of the usual clauses” to conclude that the master’s clear textual right to refuse to enter an unsafe port “might easily be read to contradict” an interpretation of a safe-berth clause that “creat[es] an affirmative liability of charterer to ship, in case of mishap.”  Gilmore & Black, Law of Admiralty §4–4, at 204–205.  Gilmore and Black’s review of safe-berth clauses contains just as much, if not more, analysis of the text than the conclusory assertions of the majority.  See ante, at 6. 

2
 Attempting to avoid the inconsistent application of its own principle, the majority claims there is a distinction between language limiting liability and language creating liability.  Ante, at 10, n. 6.  In the majority’s view, express language is “necessary” to limit liability, but the parties can create warranty liability in numerous ways.  Ibid.  Even assuming that is correct, it does not negate the proof of the parties’ intent here.  The majority can point to no example of the parties “creat[ing] warranties without invoking express warranty language” in this contract.  Ibid.  By contrast, the contract contains no fewer than nine clauses using express language to create a warranty.  The commonsense conclusion is that, when the parties intended to create a warranty, they used express language to do so. 

3
 I am skeptical that the phrase “place or wharf ” can be read to include the entire berth.  But CARCO failed to develop any argument related to the scope of this phrase, so I do not address the issue. 

4
 To support its assertion that no conflict exists, the majority rewrites the text of the safe-berth clause.  The majority asserts that “[t]he vessel master’s duty is only to ‘load and discharge’ at the chosen safe berth.”  Ante, at 12 (emphasis added).  But that is not what the clause says.  The safe-berth clause states: “The vessel shall load and discharge at any safe place or wharf.”  Addendum to Brief for Petitioners 8a (emphasis added).  And, by requiring the charterer to pay for lighterage expenses resulting from the designation of an unsafe port, the clause specifically contemplates the vessel master declining to discharge at a place or wharf that is not safe.  Ibid.; see also Mencke v. Cargo of Java Sugar,

187 U.S. 248, 253 (1902) (requiring the charterer to pay lighterage expenses where vessel discharged at a location other than the chosen berth).  The “which” clause in the provision—“which shall be designated and procured by the Charterer”—modifies “place or wharf,” creating a separate obligation for the charterer.  Addendum to Brief for Petitioners 8a.  That separate obligation, however, does not negate the express obligation imposed on the vessel.  Ibid. (emphasis added). 


