::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-002
::decision_cite:: 18-5924
::decision_name::  Ramos v. Louisiana
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–5924

															_________________

															EVANGELISTO RAMOS, PETITIONER v. LOUISIANA

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of louisiana, fourth circuit

															[April 20, 2020]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, concurring as to all but Part IV–A.

															I agree with most of the Court’s rationale, and so I join all but Part IV–A of its opinion.  I write separately, however, to underscore three points.  First, overruling precedent here is not only warranted, but compelled.  Second, the interests at stake point far more clearly to that outcome than those in other recent cases.  And finally, the racially biased origins of the Louisiana and Oregon laws uniquely matter here.

															I

															Both the majority and the dissent rightly emphasize that stare decisis “has been a fundamental part of our jurisprudence since the founding.”  Post, at 12 (opinion of Alito, J.); see ante, at 20.  Indeed, “[w]e generally adhere to our prior decisions, even if we question their soundness, because doing so ‘promotes the evenhanded, predictable, and consistent development of legal principles, fosters reliance on judicial decisions, and contributes to the actual and perceived integrity of the judicial process.’ ”  Alleyne v. United States,

570 U.S. 99, 118 (2013) (Sotomayor, J., concurring) (quoting Payne v. Tennessee,

501 U.S. 808, 827 (1991)).

															But put simply, this is not a case where we cast aside precedent “simply because a majority of this Court now disagrees with” it.  Alleyne, 570 U. S., at 133 (Alito, J., dissenting).  Rather, Apodaca v. Oregon, 

406 U.S. 464 (1972), was on shaky ground from the start.  That was not because of the functionalist analysis of that Court’s plurality: Reasonable minds have disagreed over time—and continue to disagree—about the best mode of constitutional interpretation.  That the plurality in Apodaca used different interpretive tools from the majority here is not a reason on its own to discard precedent.

															What matters instead is that, as the majority rightly stresses, Apodaca is a universe of one—an opinion uniquely irreconcilable with not just one, but two, strands of constitutional precedent well established both before and after the decision.  The Court has long recognized that the
 
Sixth Amendment requires unanimity.  Ante, at 11, 20–22.  Five Justices in Apodaca itself disagreed with that plurality’s contrary view of the
 
Sixth Amendment.  Justice Powell’s theory of dual-track incorporation also fared no better: He recognized that his argument on that score came “late in the day.”  Johnson v. Louisiana,

406 U.S. 356, 375 (1972) (concurring opinion).

															Moreover, “[t]he force of stare decisis is at its nadir in cases concerning [criminal] procedur[e] rules that implicate fundamental constitutional protections.”  Alleyne, 570 U. S., at 116, n. 5.  And the constitutional protection here ranks among the most essential: the right to put the State to its burden, in a jury trial that comports with the
 
Sixth Amendment, before facing criminal punishment.  See Codispoti v. Pennsylvania,

418 U.S. 506, 515–516 (1974) (“The
 
Sixth Amendment represents a deep commitment of the Nation to the right of jury trial in serious criminal cases as a defense against arbitrary law enforcement” (internal quotation marks omitted)).  Where the State’s power to imprison those like Ramos rests on an erroneous interpretation of the jury-trial right, the Court should not hesitate to reconsider its precedents.

															II

															In contrast to the criminal-procedure context, “[c]onsiderations in favor of stare decisis are at their acme in cases involving property and contract rights.”  Payne, 501 U. S., at 828.  Despite that fact, the Court has recently overruled precedent where the Court’s shift threatened vast regulatory and economic consequences.  Janus v. State, County, and Municipal Employees, 585 U. S. ___ (2018); id., at ___ (Kagan, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 23) (noting that the Court’s opinion called into question “thousands of . . . contracts covering millions of workers”); see South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., 585 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 21) (noting the “legitimate” burdens that the Court’s overruling of precedent would place on vendors who had started businesses in reliance on a previous decision).

															This case, by contrast, threatens no broad upheaval of private economic rights.  Particularly when compared to the interests of private parties who have structured their affairs in reliance on our decisions, the States’ interests here in avoiding a modest number of retrials—emphasized at such length by the dissent—are much less weighty.  They are certainly not new: Opinions that force changes in a State’s criminal procedure typically impose such costs.  And were this Court to take the dissent’s approach—defending criminal-procedure opinions as wrong as Apodaca simply to avoid burdening criminal justice systems—it would never correct its criminal jurisprudence at all.

															To pick up on the majority’s point, ante, at 23, in that alternate universe, a trial judge alone could still decide the critical facts necessary to sentence a defendant to death.  Walton v. Arizona,

497 U.S. 639 (1990), overruled by Ring v. Arizona,

536 U.S. 584 (2002).  An officer would still be able to search a car upon the arrest of any one of its recent occupants.  New York v. Belton,

453 U.S. 454 (1981), holding limited by Arizona v. Gant,

556 U.S. 332 (2009).  And States could still deprive a defendant of the right to confront her accuser so long as the incriminating statement was “reliable.”  Ohio v. Roberts,

448 U.S. 56 (1980), abrogated by Crawford v. Washington,

541 U.S. 36 (2004).  The Constitution demands more than the continued use of flawed criminal procedures—all because the Court fears the consequences of changing course.

															III

															Finally, the majority vividly describes the legacy of racism that generated Louisiana’s and Oregon’s laws.  Ante, at 1–2, 13–14, and n. 44.  Although Ramos does not bring an equal protection challenge, the history is worthy of this Court’s attention.  That is not simply because that legacy existed in the first place—unfortunately, many laws and policies in this country have had some history of racial animus—but also because the States’ legislatures never truly grappled with the laws’ sordid history in reenacting them.  See generally United States v. Fordice,

505 U.S. 717, 729 (1992) (policies that are “traceable” to a State’s de jure racial segregation and that still “have discriminatory effects” offend the Equal Protection Clause).

															Where a law otherwise is untethered to racial bias—and perhaps also where a legislature actually confronts a law’s tawdry past in reenacting it—the new law may well be free of discriminatory taint.  That cannot be said of the laws at issue here.  While the dissent points to the “legitimate” reasons for Louisiana’s reenactment, post, at 3–4, Louisiana’s perhaps only effort to contend with the law’s discriminatory purpose and effects came recently, when the law was repealed altogether.

															Today, Louisiana’s and Oregon’s laws are fully—and rightly—relegated to the dustbin of history.  And so, too, is Apodaca.  While overruling precedent must be rare, this Court should not shy away from correcting its errors where the right to avoid imprisonment pursuant to unconstitutional procedures hangs in the balance.
													
