::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-017
::decision_cite:: 18-587
::decision_name::  Department of Homeland Security v. Regents of University of California
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 18–587, 18–588, and 18–589

															_________________

															DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, et al., PETITIONERS

															18–587v.

															REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															

															DONALD J. TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, et al., PETITIONERS

															18–588v.

															NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE, et al.; AND

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the  united states court of appeals for the  district of columbia circuit

															

															CHAD WOLF, ACTING SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY, et al., PETITIONERS

															18–589v.

															MARTIN JONATHAN BATALLA VIDAL, et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit

															 [June 18, 2020]

															Justice Kavanaugh, concurring in the judgment in part and dissenting in part.

															For the last 20 years, the country has engaged in consequential policy, religious, and moral debates about the legal status of millions of young immigrants who, as children, were brought to the United States and have lived here ever since.  Those young immigrants do not have legal status in the United States under current statutory law.  They live, go to school, and work here with uncertainty about their futures.  Despite many attempts over the last two decades, Congress has not yet enacted legislation to afford legal status to those immigrants.

															In 2012, exercising its view of the Executive’s prosecutorial discretion under Article II and the immigration laws, President Obama’s administration unilaterally instituted a program known as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA.  Under DACA, eligible young immigrants may apply for and receive deferred action.  They must renew their DACA status every two years.  Under the program, the Executive Branch broadly forbears from enforcing certain immigration removal laws against DACA recipients.  And by virtue of the forbearance, DACA recipients also become eligible for work authorization and other benefits.

															Since 2017, President Trump’s administration has sought to rescind DACA based on its different and narrower understanding of the Executive’s prosecutorial discretion under Article II and the immigration laws.  In its view, the Executive Branch legally may not, and as a policy matter should not, unilaterally forbear from enforcing the immigration laws against such a large class of individuals.  The current administration has stated that it instead wants to work with Congress to enact comprehensive legislation that would address the legal status of those immigrants together with other significant immigration issues.

															The question before the Court is whether the Executive Branch acted lawfully in ordering rescission of the ongoing DACA program.  To begin with, all nine Members of the Court accept, as do the DACA plaintiffs themselves, that the Executive Branch possesses the legal authority to rescind DACA and to resume pre-DACA enforcement of the immigration laws enacted by Congress.  Having previously adopted a policy of prosecutorial discretion and nonenforcement with respect to a particular class of offenses or individuals, the Executive Branch has the legal authority to rescind such a policy and resume enforcing the law enacted by Congress.  The Executive Branch’s exercise of that rescission authority is subject to constitutional constraints and may also be subject to statutory constraints.  The narrow legal dispute here concerns a statutory constraint—namely, whether the Executive Branch’s action to rescind DACA satisfied the general arbitrary-and-capricious standard of the Administrative Procedure Act, or APA.

															The APA’s arbitrary-and-capricious standard requires that agency action be reasonable and reasonably explained.  As the Court has long stated, judicial review under that standard is deferential to the agency.  The Court may not substitute its policy judgment for that of the agency.  The Court simply ensures that the agency has acted within a broad zone of reasonableness and, in particular, has reasonably considered the relevant issues and reasonably explained the decision.  See FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc.,

556 U.S. 502 (2009); Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United States, Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co.,

463 U.S. 29 (1983).

															The Executive Branch explained its decision to rescind DACA in two sequential memorandums by successive Secretaries of Homeland Security: the 2017 Duke Memorandum and the 2018 Nielsen Memorandum.  The Duke Memorandum focused on DACA’s perceived legal flaws.  The Court today finds the Duke Memorandum insufficient under the APA’s arbitrary-and-capricious standard.

															But regardless of whether the Court is correct about the Duke Memorandum, the Nielsen Memorandum more fully explained the Department’s legal reasons for rescinding DACA, and clarified that even if DACA were lawful, the Department would still rescind DACA for a variety of policy reasons.  The Nielsen Memorandum also expressly addressed the reliance interests of DACA recipients.  The question under the APA’s deferential arbitrary-and-capricious standard is not whether we agree with the Department’s decision to rescind DACA.  The question is whether the Nielsen Memorandum reasonably explained the decision to rescind DACA.  Under ordinary application of the arbitrary-and-capricious standard, the Nielsen Memorandum—with its alternative and independent rationales and its discussion of reliance—would pass muster as an explanation for the Executive Branch’s action.

															The Nielsen Memorandum was issued nine months after the Duke Memorandum.  Under the Administrative Procedure Act, the Nielsen Memorandum is itself a “rule” setting forth “an agency statement of general . . . applicability and future effect designed to implement . . . policy.”

5 U. S. C. §551(4).  Because it is a rule, the Nielsen Memorandum constitutes “agency action.”  §551(13).  As the Secretary of Homeland Security, Secretary Nielsen had the authority to decide whether to stick with Secretary Duke’s decision to rescind DACA, or to make a different decision.  Like Secretary Duke, Secretary Nielsen chose to rescind DACA, and she provided additional explanation.  Her memorandum was akin to common forms of agency action that follow earlier agency action on the same subject—for example, a supplemental or new agency statement of policy, or an agency order with respect to a motion for rehearing or reconsideration.  Courts often consider an agency’s additional explanations of policy or additional explanations made, for example, on agency rehearing or reconsideration, or on remand from a court, even if the agency’s bottom-line decision itself does not change.

															Yet the Court today jettisons the Nielsen Memorandum by classifying it as a post hoc justification for rescinding DACA.  Ante, at 14–16.  Under our precedents, however, the post hoc justification doctrine merely requires that courts assess agency action based on the official explanations of the agency decisionmakers, and not based on after-the-fact explanations advanced by agency lawyers during litigation (or by judges).  See, e.g., State Farm, 463 U. S., at 50 (“courts may not accept appellate counsel’s post hoc rationalizations for agency action”); FPC v. Texaco Inc.,

417 U.S. 380, 397 (1974) (same); NLRB v. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co.,

380 U.S. 438, 443–444 (1965) (same); Burlington Truck Lines, Inc. v. United States,

371 U.S. 156, 168–169 (1962) (same).  As the D. C. Circuit has explained, the post hoc justification doctrine “is not a time barrier which freezes an agency’s exercise of its judgment after an initial decision has been made and bars it from further articulation of its reasoning.  It is a rule directed at reviewing courts which forbids judges to uphold agency action on the basis of rationales offered by anyone other than the proper decisionmakers.”  Alpharma, Inc. v. Leavitt, 460 F.3d 1, 6 (2006) (Garland, J.) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Indeed, the ordinary judicial remedy for an agency’s insufficient explanation is to remand for further explanation by the relevant agency personnel.  It would make little sense for a court to exclude official explanations by agency personnel such as a Cabinet Secretary simply because the explanations are purportedly post hoc, and then to turn around and remand for further explanation by those same agency personnel.  Yet that is the upshot of the Court’s application of the post hoc justification doctrine today.  The Court’s refusal to look at the Nielsen Memorandum seems particularly mistaken, moreover, because the Nielsen Memorandum shows that the Department, back in 2018, considered the policy issues that the Court today says the Department did not consider.  Ante, at 20–26.

															To be sure, cases such as Overton Park and Camp v. Pitts suggest that courts reviewing certain agency adjudications may in some circumstances decline to examine an after-the-fact agency explanation.  See Camp v. Pitts,

411 U.S. 138, 142–143 (1973) (per curiam); Citizens to Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v. Volpe,

401 U.S. 402, 419–421 (1971).  But agency adjudications are “concerned with the determination of past and present rights and liabilities,” Attorney General’s Manual on the Administrative Procedure Act 14 (1947), and implicate the due process interests of the individual parties to the adjudication.  Judicial review of an adjudication therefore ordinarily focuses on what happened during the agency’s adjudication process of deciding that individual case.

															Even if certain agency adjudications have a slightly more stringent restriction on post hoc explanations, the APA is “based upon a dichotomy between rule making and adjudication,” ibid., and this case involves an ongoing agency rule that has future effect—the rescission of DACA.  The Nielsen Memorandum implements and explains the rescission of DACA.  I am aware of no case from this Court, and the Court today cites none, that has employed the post hoc justification doctrine to exclude an agency’s official explanation of an agency rule.  For purposes of arbitrary-and-capricious review, it does not matter whether the latest official explanation was two years ago or three years ago.  What matters is whether the explanation was reasonable and followed the requisite procedures.  In my view, the Court should consider the Nielsen Memorandum in deciding whether the Department’s rescission of DACA satisfies the APA’s arbitrary-and-capricious standard.

															Because the Court excludes the Nielsen Memorandum, the Court sends the case back to the Department of Homeland Security for further explanation.  Although I disagree with the Court’s decision to remand, the only practical consequence of the Court’s decision to remand appears to be some delay.  The Court’s decision seems to allow the Department on remand to relabel and reiterate the substance of the Nielsen Memorandum, perhaps with some elaboration as suggested in the Court’s opinion.  Ante, at 23–26.[1]

															*  *  *

															The Court’s resolution of this narrow APA issue of course cannot eliminate the broader uncertainty over the status of the DACA recipients.  That uncertainty is a result of Congress’s inability thus far to agree on legislation, which in turn has forced successive administrations to improvise, thereby triggering many rounds of relentless litigation with the prospect of more litigation to come.  In contrast to those necessarily short-lived and stopgap administrative measures, the Article I legislative process could produce a sturdy and enduring solution to this issue, one way or the other, and thereby remove the uncertainty that has persisted for years for these young immigrants and the Nation’s immigration system.  In the meantime, as to the narrow APA question presented here, I appreciate the Court’s careful analysis, but I ultimately disagree with its treatment of the Nielsen Memorandum.  I therefore respectfully dissent from the Court’s judgment on plaintiffs’ APA claim, and I concur in the judgment insofar as the Court rejects plaintiffs’ equal protection claim.
Notes
1
 Because I conclude that the Executive Branch satisfied the APA’s arbitrary-and-capricious standard, I need not consider whether its prosecutorial enforcement policy was “committed to agency discretion by law” and therefore not subject to APA arbitrary-and-capricious review in the first place.

5 U. S. C. §701(a)(2).  Several judges have advanced arguments suggesting that DACA—at least to the extent it was simply an exercise of forbearance authority—and the repeal of DACA are decisions about whether and to what extent to exercise prosecutorial discretion against a class of offenses or individuals, and are therefore unreviewable under the APA as “committed to agency discretion by law.”  Ibid.; see Casa De Maryland v. United States Dept. of Homeland Security, 924 F.3d 684, 709–715 (CA4 2019) (Richardson, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part); Regents of Univ. Cal. v. United States Dept. of Homeland Security, 908 F.3d 476, 521–523 (CA9 2018) (Owens, J., concurring in judgment); see also Texas v. United States, 809 F.3d 134, 196–202 (CA5 2015) (King, J., dissenting); Texas v. United States, 787 F.3d 733, 770–776 (CA5 2015) (Higginson, J., dissenting); cf. Heckler v. Chaney,

470 U.S. 821, 831–835 (1985); ICC v. Locomotive Engineers,

482 U.S. 270, 277–284 (1987); United States v. Nixon,

418 U.S. 683, 693 (1974) (“the Executive Branch has exclusive authority and absolute discretion to decide whether to prosecute a case”); In re Aiken County, 725 F.3d 255, 262–264 (CADC 2013).   


