::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-011
::decision_cite:: 18-556
::decision_name::  Kansas v. Glover
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–556

															_________________

															KANSAS, PETITIONER v. CHARLES GLOVER

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of kansas

															[April 6, 2020]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins, concurring.

															When you see a car coming down the street, your common sense tells you that the registered owner may well be behind the wheel.  See ante, at 4, 9.  Not always, of course.  Families share cars; friends borrow them.  Still, a person often buys a vehicle to drive it himself.  So your suspicion that the owner is driving would be perfectly reasonable.  See ibid.

															Now, though, consider a wrinkle: Suppose you knew that the registered owner of the vehicle no longer had a valid driver’s license.  That added fact raises a new question.  What are the odds that someone who has lost his license would continue to drive?  The answer is by no means obvious.  You might think that a person told not to drive on pain of criminal penalty would obey the order—so that if his car was on the road, someone else (a family member, a friend) must be doing the driving.  Or you might have the opposite intuition—that a person’s reasons for driving would overcome his worries about violating the law, no matter the possible punishment.  But most likely (let’s be honest), you just wouldn’t know.  Especially if you’ve not had your own license taken away, your everyday experience has given you little basis to assess the probabilities.  Your common sense can therefore no longer guide you.

															Even so, Deputy Mark Mehrer had reasonable suspicion to stop the truck in this case, and I join the Court’s opinion holding as much.  Crucially for me, Mehrer knew yet one more thing about the vehicle’s registered owner, and it related to his proclivity for breaking driving laws.  As the Court recounts, Mehrer learned from a state database that Charles Glover, the truck’s owner, had had his license revoked under Kansas law.  See ante, at 2.  And Kansas almost never revokes a license except for serious or repeated driving offenses.  See Kan. Stat. Ann. §8–254 (2001); ante, at 5.  Crimes like vehicular homicide and manslaughter, or vehicular flight from a police officer, provoke a license revocation; so too do multiple convictions for moving traffic violations within a short time.  See ante, at 5.  In other words, a person with a revoked license has already shown a willingness to flout driving restrictions.  That fact, as the Court states, provides a “reason[ ] to infer” that such a person will drive without a license—at least often enough to warrant an investigatory stop.  Ibid.  And there is nothing else here to call that inference into question.  That is because the parties’ unusually austere stipulation confined the case to the facts stated above—i.e., that Mehrer stopped Glover’s truck because he knew that Kansas had revoked Glover’s license.

															But as already suggested, I would find this a different case if Kansas had barred Glover from driving on a ground that provided no similar evidence of his penchant for ignoring driving laws.  Consider, for example, if Kansas had suspended rather than revoked Glover’s license.  Along with many other States, Kansas suspends licenses for matters having nothing to do with road safety, such as failing to pay parking tickets, court fees, or child support.  See Kan. Stat. Ann. §8–2110(b) (2018 Cum. Supp.); see also, e.g., N. J. Stat. Ann. §39:4–139.10 (West Supp. 2019); Ark. Code Ann. §9–14–239 (Supp. 2019).  Indeed, several studies have found that most license suspensions do not relate to driving at all; what they most relate to is being poor.  See Brief for Fines and Fees Justice Center et al. as Amici Curiae 7.  So the good reason the Court gives for thinking that someone with a revoked license will keep driving—that he has a history of disregarding driving rules—would no longer apply.  And without that, the case for assuming that an unlicensed driver is at the wheel is hardly self-evident.  It would have to rest on an idea about the frequency with which even those who had previously complied with driving laws would defy a State’s penalty-backed command to stay off the roads.  But where would that idea come from?  As discussed above, I doubt whether our collective common sense could do the necessary work.  See supra, at 1.  Or otherwise said, I suspect that any common sense invoked in this altered context would not much differ from a “mere ‘hunch’ ”—and so “not create reasonable suspicion.”  Prado Navarette v. California,

572 U.S. 393, 397 (2014) (quoting Terry v. Ohio,

392 U.S. 1, 27 (1968)).

															And even when, as under the revocation scheme here, a starting presumption of reasonable suspicion makes sense, the defendant may show that in his case additional information dictates the opposite result.  The Court is clear on this point, emphasizing that under the applicable totality-of-the-circumstances test, “the presence of additional facts might dispel reasonable suspicion” even though an officer knows that a car on the road belongs to a person with a revoked license.  Ante, at 9; see ante, at 1 (stating that further information may “negat[e] an inference that the owner is the driver of the vehicle”).  Just as the Court once said of a trained drug-detection dog’s “alert,” the license-revocation signal is always subject to a defendant’s challenge, whether through cross-examination of the officer or introduction of his own fact or expert witnesses.  Florida v. Harris,

568 U.S. 237, 247 (2013).

															That challenge may take any number of forms.  The Court offers a clear example of observational evidence dispelling reasonable suspicion: if the officer knows the registered owner of a vehicle is an elderly man, but can see the driver is a young woman.  See ante, at 9.  Similarly (if not as cut-and-dry), when the officer learns a car has two or more registered owners, the balance of circumstances may tip away from reasonable suspicion that the one with the revoked license is driving.  And so too, the attributes of the car may be relevant.  Consider if a car bears the markings of a peer-to-peer carsharing service; or compare the likelihoods that someone other than the registered owner is driving (1) a family minivan and (2) a Ferrari.  The officer himself may have a wealth of accumulated information about such matters, and the defendant may probe what that knowledge suggests about the stop at issue.

															Such a challenge may also use statistical evidence, which is almost daily expanding in sophistication and scope. States or municipalities often keep information about “hit rates” in stops like this one—in other words, the frequency with which those stops discover unlicensed drivers behind the wheel.  See generally Brief for Andrew Manuel Crespo as Amicus Curiae 23–27.  Somewhat less direct but also useful are state and local data (collected by governments, insurance companies, and academics alike) about the average number of drivers for each registered automobile and the extent to which unlicensed persons continue to drive.  See id., at 13–18.  (If, to use an extreme example, every car had 10 associated drivers, and losing a license reduced driving time by 90%, an officer would not have reasonable suspicion for a stop.)  Here too, defendants may question testifying officers about such information.  Indeed, an officer may have his own hit rate, which if low enough could itself negate reasonable suspicion.  See, e.g., United States v.  Cortez-Galaviz, 495 F.3d 1203, 1208–1209 (CA10 2007) (Gorsuch, J.) (considering, as part of the reasonable suspicion inquiry, the frequency of an officer’s misses and the accuracy of the database on which he relied).[1]

															In this strange case, contested on a barebones stipulation, the record contains no evidence of these kinds.  There is but a single, simple fact: A police officer learned from a state database that a car on the road belonged to a person with a revoked license.  Given that revocations in Kansas nearly always stem from serious or repeated driving violations, I agree with the Court about the reasonableness of the officer’s inference that the owner, “Glover[,] was driving while his license was revoked.”  Ante, at 9.  And because Glover offered no rebuttal, there the matter stands.  But that does not mean cases with more complete records will all wind up in the same place.  A defendant like Glover may still be able to show that his case is different—that the “presence of additional facts” and circumstances “dispel[s] reasonable suspicion.”  Ibid.  Which is to say that in more fully litigated cases, the license-revocation alert does not (as it did here) end the inquiry.  It is but the first, though no doubt an important, step in assessing the reasonableness of the officer’s suspicion.
Notes
1
 Of course, aggregate statistics of this kind cannot substitute for the individualized suspicion that the
 
Fourth Amendment requires.  See, e.g., Terry v. Ohio,

392 U.S. 1, 21, n. 18 (1968) (“Th[e] demand for specificity . . . is the central teaching of this Court’s
 
Fourth Amendment jurisprudence”).  But in a case like this one, the officer’s suspicion is individualized: It arises from the license status of the known owner of a specific car.  The only question is whether that suspicion is reasonable—whether, in other words, there is enough to back up the officer’s belief that the owner is driving the vehicle.  As to that matter, statistics may be highly relevant, either to support or to cast doubt on the officer’s judgment. 


