::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-017
::decision_cite:: 18-587
::decision_name::  Department of Homeland Security v. Regents of University of California
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															 _________________

															Nos. 18–587, 18–588, and 18–589

															_________________

															DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, et al., PETITIONERS

															18–587v.

															REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															

															DONALD J. TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, et al., PETITIONERS

															18–588v.

															NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE, et al.; AND

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the  united states court of appeals for the  district of columbia circuit

															

															CHAD WOLF, ACTING SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY, et al., PETITIONERS

															18–589v.

															MARTIN JONATHAN BATALLA VIDAL, et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit

															 [June 18, 2020]

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Alito and Justice Gorsuch join, concurring in the judgment in part and dissenting in part.

															Between 2001 and 2011, Congress considered over two dozen bills that would have granted lawful status to millions of aliens who were illegally brought to this country as children.  Each of those legislative efforts failed.  In the wake of this impasse, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) under President Barack Obama took matters into its own hands.  Without any purported delegation of authority from Congress and without undertaking a rulemaking, DHS unilaterally created a program known as  Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA).  The three-page DACA memorandum made it possible for approximately 1.7 million illegal aliens to qualify for temporary lawful presence and certain federal and state benefits.  When President Donald Trump took office in 2017, his Acting Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through yet another memorandum, rescinded the DACA memorandum.  To state it plainly, the Trump administration rescinded DACA the same way that the Obama administration created it: unilaterally, and through a mere memorandum.

															Today the majority makes the mystifying determination that this rescission of DACA was unlawful.  In reaching that conclusion, the majority acts as though it is engaging in the routine application of standard principles of administrative law.  On the contrary, this is anything but a standard administrative law case.

															DHS created DACA during the Obama administration without any statutory authorization and without going through the requisite rulemaking process.  As a result, the program was unlawful from its inception.  The majority does not even attempt to explain why a court has the authority to scrutinize an agency’s policy reasons for rescinding an unlawful program under the arbitrary and capricious microscope.  The decision to countermand an unlawful agency action is clearly reasonable.  So long as the agency’s determination of illegality is sound, our review should be at an end.

															Today’s decision must be recognized for what it is: an effort to avoid a politically controversial but legally correct decision.  The Court could have made clear that the solution respondents seek must come from the Legislative Branch.  Instead, the majority has decided to prolong DHS’ initial overreach by providing a stopgap measure of its own.  In doing so, it has given the green light for future political battles to be fought in this Court rather than where they rightfully belong—the political branches.  Such timidity forsakes the Court’s duty to apply the law according to neutral principles, and the ripple effects of the majority’s error will be felt throughout our system of self-government.

															Perhaps even more unfortunately, the majority’s holding creates perverse incentives, particularly for outgoing administrations.  Under the auspices of today’s decision, administrations can bind their successors by unlawfully adopting significant legal changes through Executive Branch agency memoranda.  Even if the agency lacked authority to effectuate the changes, the changes cannot be undone by the same agency in a successor administration unless the successor provides sufficient policy justifications to the satisfaction of this Court.  In other words, the majority erroneously holds that the agency is not only permitted, but required, to continue administering unlawful programs that it inherited from a previous administration.  I respectfully dissent in part.[1]

															I

															A

															In 2012, after more than two dozen attempts by Congress to grant lawful status to aliens who were brought to this country as children,[2] the then-Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano announced, by memorandum, a new “prosecutorial discretion” policy known as DACA.  App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 18–587, p. 97a.  The memorandum directed immigration enforcement officers not to remove “certain young people who were brought to this country as children” that met delineated criteria.  Id., at 97a–98a.  In the Secretary’s view, the program was consistent with “the framework of the existing law.”  Id., at 101a.

															DACA granted a renewable 2-year period of “deferred action” that made approximately 1.7 million otherwise removable aliens eligible to remain in this country temporarily.[3]  By granting deferred action, the memorandum also made recipients eligible for certain state and federal benefits, including Medicare and Social Security.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1611(b)(2)–(4); 8 CFR §1.3(a)(4)(vi) (2020); 45 CFR §152.2(4)(vi) (2019).  In addition, deferred action enabled the recipients to seek work authorization.  8 U. S. C. §1324a(h)(3)(B); 8 CFR §274a.12(c)(14).  Despite these changes, the memorandum contradictorily claimed that it “confer[red] no substantive right [or] immigration status,” because “[o]nly the Congress, acting through its legislative authority, can confer these rights.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 18–587, at 101a.

															In 2014, then-Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson broadened the deferred-action program in yet another brief memorandum.  This 2014 memorandum expanded DACA eligibility by extending the deferred-action period to three years and by relaxing other criteria.  It also implemented a related program, known as Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA).  DAPA allowed unlawfully present parents to obtain deferred action derivatively through their children who were either citizens or lawful permanent residents.  Approximately 4.3 million aliens qualified for DAPA and, as with DACA, these individuals would have become eligible for certain federal and state benefits upon the approval of their DAPA applications.  See Texas v. United States, 809 F.3d 134, 181 (CA5 2015).  Nevertheless, the 2014 memorandum repeated the incongruous assertion that these programs “d[id] not confer any form of legal status in this country” and added that deferred action “may be terminated at any time at the agency’s discretion.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 18–587, at 104a.

															B

															Twenty-six States filed suit to enjoin the implementation of these new programs, DAPA and “expanded DACA,” maintaining that they violated the Constitution, the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), and the Immigration and Naturalization Act (INA).  The States contended that, because the 2014 memorandum allowed aliens to receive deferred action and other benefits, it amounted to a legislative rule that had to comply with the APA’s notice and comment procedures.  The States also argued that DHS’ decision to recategorize an entire class of aliens from “unlawfully present” to “lawfully present” exceeded its statutory authority under the federal immigration laws.  According to the States, these defects rendered the 2014 memorandum arbitrary, capricious, or otherwise not in accordance with law.

															The District Court preliminarily enjoined DAPA and expanded DACA.  The Fifth Circuit affirmed, rejecting DHS’ claim that the programs were an exercise of prosecutorial discretion.  Texas, 809 F. 3d, at 167, 188.  The court concluded that the States were likely to succeed on their claim that the 2014 memorandum was a legislative rule that had to be adopted through notice and comment rulemaking.  Id., at 171–178.  The court further concluded that the 2014 memorandum was “substantively contrary to law” because the INA did not grant DHS the statutory authority to implement either program.  Id., at 170, 178–186.

															This Court affirmed the Fifth Circuit’s judgment by an equally divided vote.  United States v. Texas, 579 U. S. ___ (2016) (per curiam).

															C

															The 2014 memorandum was rescinded on June 15, 2017, before taking effect.  Shortly after that rescission, several of the plaintiff States sent a letter to then-Attorney General Jefferson Sessions III.  They contended that the 2012 DACA memorandum was also legally defective because, “just like DAPA, DACA unilaterally confers eligibility for . . . lawful presence without any statutory authorization from Congress.”  App. 873.  The States wrote that they would amend their complaint to challenge DACA if the administration did not rescind the 2012 memorandum creating DACA by September 5, 2017.

															On September 4, then-Attorney General Sessions wrote to then-Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke, advising her to rescind DACA.  Sessions stated that, in his legal opinion, DACA took effect “through executive action, without proper statutory authority and with no established end-date, after Congress’ repeated rejection of proposed legislation that would have accomplished a similar result.  Such an open-ended circumvention of immigration laws was an unconstitutional exercise of authority by the Executive Branch.”  Id., at 877.  The letter also stated that DACA was infected with the “same legal . . . defects that the courts recognized as to DAPA,” id., at 878, and thus DACA would likely be enjoined as well.

															Then-Acting Secretary Duke rescinded DACA the next day, also through a memorandum.  Her memorandum began by noting that DACA “purported to use deferred action . . . to confer certain benefits to illegal aliens that Congress had not otherwise acted to provide by law.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 18–587, at 112a.  It described the history of the Fifth Circuit litigation, noting that the court had concluded that DAPA “conflicted with the discretion authorized by Congress” because “the [INA] flatly does not permit the reclassification of millions of illegal aliens as lawfully present.”  Id., at 114a (internal quotation marks omitted).  Finally, the memorandum accepted then-Attorney General Sessions’ legal determination that DACA was unlawful for the same reasons as DAPA.  See §1103(a)(1).  In light of the legal conclusions reached by the Fifth Circuit and the Attorney General, then-Acting Secretary Duke set forth the procedures for winding down DACA.

															These three cases soon followed.  In each, respondents claimed, among other things, that DACA’s rescission was arbitrary and capricious under the APA.  Two District Courts granted a preliminary nationwide injunction, while the third vacated the rescission.

															II

															“ ‘[A]n agency literally has no power to act . . . unless and until Congress confers power upon it.’ ”  Arlington v. FCC,

569 U.S. 290, 317 (2013) (Roberts, C. J., dissenting) (quoting Louisiana Pub. Serv. Comm’n v. FCC,

476 U.S. 355, 374 (1986)).  When an agency exercises power beyond the bounds of its authority, it acts unlawfully.  See, e.g., SAS Institute Inc. v. Iancu, 584 U. S. ___, ___, n. (2018) (slip op., at 11, n.).  The 2012 memorandum creating DACA provides a poignant illustration of ultra vires agency action.

															DACA alters how the immigration laws apply to a certain class of aliens.  “DACA [recipients] primarily entered the country either by overstaying a visa or by entering without inspection, and the INA instructs that aliens in both classes are removable.”  Texas v. United States, 328 F. Supp. 3d 662, 713 (SD Tex. 2018) (footnote omitted).  But DACA granted its recipients deferred action, i.e., a decision to “decline to institute [removal] proceedings, terminate [removal] proceedings, or decline to institute a final order of [removal].”  Reno v. American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Comm.,

525 U.S. 471, 484 (1999) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Under other regulations, recipients of deferred action are deemed lawfully present for purposes of certain federal benefits.  See supra, at 4.  Thus, DACA in effect created a new exception to the statutory provisions governing removability and, in the process, conferred lawful presence on an entire class of aliens.

															To lawfully implement such changes, DHS needed a grant of authority from Congress to either reclassify removable DACA recipients as lawfully present, or to exempt the entire class of aliens covered by DACA from statutory removal procedures.  No party disputes that the immigration statutes lack an express delegation to accomplish either result.  And, an examination of the highly reticulated immigration regime makes clear that DHS has no implicit discretion to create new classes of lawful presence or to grant relief from removal out of whole cloth.  Accordingly, DACA is substantively unlawful.

															This conclusion should begin and end our review.  The decision to rescind an unlawful agency action is per se lawful.  No additional policy justifications or considerations are necessary.  And, the majority’s contrary holding—that an agency is not only permitted, but required, to continue an ultra vires action—has no basis in law.

															A

															Congress has not authorized DHS to reclassify an entire class of removable aliens as lawfully present or to categorically exempt aliens from statutory removal provisions.

															1

															I begin with lawful presence.  As just stated, nothing in the federal immigration laws expressly delegates to DHS the unfettered discretion to create new categories of lawfully present aliens.  And, there is no basis for concluding that Congress implicitly delegated to DHS the power to reclassify categories of aliens as lawfully present.  The immigration statutes provide numerous ways to obtain lawful presence, both temporary and permanent.  The highly detailed nature of these provisions indicates that Congress has exhaustively provided for all of the ways that it thought lawful presence should be obtainable, leaving no discretion to DHS to add new pathways.

															For example, federal immigration laws provide over 60 temporary nonimmigrant visa options, including visas for ambassadors, full-time students and their spouses and children, those engaged to marry a United States citizen within 90 days of arrival, athletes and performers, and aliens with specialized knowledge related to their employers.  See §§1101(a)(15)(A)–(V), 1184; 8 CFR §214.1; see also Congressional Research Service, J. Wilson, Nonimmigrant and Immigrant Visa Categories: Data Brief 1–6 (2019) (Table 1).  In addition, the statutes permit the Attorney General to grant temporary “parole” into the United States “for urgent humanitarian reasons or [a] significant public benefit,”

8 U. S. C. §1182(d)(5)(A); provide for temporary protected status when the Attorney General finds that removal to a country with an ongoing armed conflict “would pose a serious threat to [an alien’s] personal safety,” §1254a(b)(1)(A); and allow the Secretary of Homeland Security (in consultation with the Secretary of State) to waive visa requirements for certain aliens for up to 90 days, §§1187(a)–(d).

															The immigration laws are equally complex and detailed when it comes to obtaining lawful permanent residence.  Congress has expressly specified numerous avenues for obtaining an immigrant visa, which aliens may then use to become lawful permanent residents.  §§1201, 1255(a).  Among other categories, immigrant visas are available to specified family-sponsored aliens, aliens with advanced degrees or exceptional abilities, certain types of skilled and unskilled workers, “special immigrants,” and those entering the country to “engag[e] in a new commercial enterprise.”  §§1153(a)–(b), 1154; see also Congressional Research Service, Nonimmigrant and Immigrant Visa Categories, at 6–7 (Table 2).  Refugees and asylees also may receive lawful permanent residence under certain conditions, §1159; 8 CFR §§209.1, 209.2.[4]  As with temporary lawful presence, each avenue to lawful permanent residence status has its own set of rules and exceptions.[5]

															As the Fifth Circuit held in the DAPA litigation, a conclusion with which then-Attorney General Sessions agreed, “specific and detailed provisions[ of] the INA expressly and carefully provid[e] legal designations allowing defined classes of aliens to be lawfully present.”  Texas, 809 F. 3d, at 179.  In light of this elaborate statutory scheme, the lack of any similar provision for DACA recipients convincingly establishes that Congress left DHS with no discretion to create an additional class of aliens eligible for lawful presence.  Congress knows well how to provide broad discretion, and it has provided open-ended delegations of authority in statutes too numerous to name.  But when it comes to lawful presence, Congress did something strikingly different.  Instead of enacting  a statute with “broad general directives” and leaving it to the agency to fill in the lion’s share of the details, Mistretta v. United States,

488 U.S. 361, 372 (1989), Congress put in place intricate specifications governing eligibility for lawful presence.  This comprehensive scheme indicates that DHS has no discretion to supplement or amend the statutory provisions in any manner, least of all by memorandum.  See FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.,

529 U.S. 120, 125 (2000) (An agency “may not exercise its authority in a manner that is inconsistent with the administrative structure that Congress enacted” (internal quotation marks omitted)); see also ETSI Pipeline Project v. Missouri,

484 U.S. 495, 509–510 (1988).

															2

															The relief that Congress has extended to removable aliens likewise confirms that DACA exceeds DHS’ delegated authority.  Through deferred action, DACA grants temporary relief to removable aliens on a programmatic scale.  See Texas, 328 F. Supp. 3d, at 714.  But as with lawful presence, Congress did not expressly grant DHS the authority to create categorical exceptions to the statute’s removal requirements.  And again, as with lawful presence, the intricate level of detail in the federal immigration laws regarding relief from removal indicates that DHS has no discretionary authority to supplement that relief with an entirely new programmatic exemption.

															At the outset, Congress clearly knows how to provide for classwide deferred action when it wishes to do so.  On multiple occasions, Congress has used express language to make certain classes of individuals eligible for deferred action.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1154(a)(1)(D)(i)(II), (IV) (certain individuals covered under the Violence Against Women Act are “eligible for deferred action”); Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000,

114Stat.
1522 (“ ‘Any individual described in subclause (I) is eligible for deferred action’ ”); Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act of 2001, §423(b),

115Stat.
361 (“Such spouse, child, son, or daughter may be eligible for deferred action”); National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004, §§1703(c)(1)(A), (2),

117Stat.
1694–1695 (“Such spouse or child shall be eligible for deferred action”).[6]  Congress has failed to provide similar explicit provisions for DACA recipients, and the immigration laws contain no indication that DHS can, at will, create its own categorical policies for deferred action.

															Other provisions pertaining to relief from removal further demonstrate that DHS lacked the delegated authority to create DACA.  As with lawful presence, Congress has provided a plethora of methods by which aliens may seek relief from removal.  For instance, both permanent and temporary residents can seek cancellation of removal if they meet certain residency requirements and have not committed certain crimes.  §§1229b(a)–(b).  And certain nonpermanent residents may have their status adjusted to permanent residence during these proceedings.  §1229b(b)(2).  Aliens can apply for asylum or withholding of removal during removal proceedings unless they have committed certain crimes.  §§1158, 1231(b)(3).  Applicants for certain nonimmigrant visas may be granted a stay of removal until the visa application is adjudicated.  §1227(d).  And, aliens may voluntarily depart rather than be subject to an order of removal.  §1229c.

															In sum, like lawful presence, Congress has provided for relief from removal in specific and complex ways.  This nuanced detail indicates that Congress has provided the full panoply of methods it thinks should be available for an alien to seek relief from removal, leaving no discretion to DHS to provide additional programmatic forms of relief.[7]

															3

															Finally, DHS could not appeal to general grants of authority, such as the Secretary’s ability to “perform such other acts as he deems necessary for carrying out his authority under the provisions of this chapter,” §1103(a)(3), or to “[e]stablis[h] national immigration enforcement policies and priorities,”

6 U. S. C. §202(5).  See also

8 U. S. C. §1103(g)(2).  Because we must interpret the statutes “as a symmetrical and coherent regulatory scheme,” Gustafson v. Alloyd Co.,

513 U.S. 561, 569 (1995), these grants of authority must be read alongside the express limits contained within the statute.  Basing the Secretary’s ability to completely overhaul immigration law on these general grants of authority would eviscerate that deliberate statutory scheme by “allow[ing the Secretary of DHS] to grant lawful presence . . . to any illegal alien in the United States.”  Texas, 809 F. 3d, at 184.  Not only is this “an untenable position in light of the INA’s intricate system,” ibid., but it would also render many of those provisions wholly superfluous due to DHS’ authority to disregard them at will, Duncan v. Walker,

533 U.S. 167, 174 (2001).  And in addition to these fatal problems, adopting a broad interpretation of these general grants of authority would run afoul of the presumption that “Congress . . . does not alter the fundamental details of a regulatory scheme in vague terms or ancillary provisions.”  Whitman v. American Trucking Assns., Inc.,

531 U.S. 457, 468 (2001).  And it would also conflict with the major questions doctrine, which is based on the expectation that Congress speaks clearly when it delegates the power to make “decisions of vast economic and political significance.”  Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA,

573 U.S. 302, 324 (2014) (UARG) (internal quotation marks omitted); see also Texas, 787 F. 3d, at 760–761.

															Read together, the detailed statutory provisions governing temporary and lawful permanent resident status, relief from removal, and classwide deferred-action programs lead ineluctably to the conclusion that DACA is “inconsisten[t] with the design and structure of the statute as a whole.”  University of Tex. Southwestern Medical Center v. Nassar,

570 U.S. 338, 353 (2013).  As the District Court stated in the DAPA litigation and as then-Attorney General Sessions agreed, “[i]nstead of merely refusing to enforce the INA’s removal laws against an individual, the DHS has enacted a wide-reaching program that awards legal presence . . . to individuals Congress has deemed deportable or removable.”  Texas v. United States, 86 F. Supp. 3d 591, 654 (SD Tex. 2015).  The immigration statutes contain a level of granular specificity that is exceedingly rare in the modern administrative state.  It defies all logic and common sense to conclude that a statutory scheme detailed enough to provide conditional lawful presence to groups as narrowly defined as “alien entrepreneurs,” §1186b, is simultaneously capacious enough for DHS to grant lawful presence to almost two million illegal aliens with the stroke of a Cabinet secretary’s pen.

															B

															Then-Attorney General Sessions concluded that the initial DACA program suffered from the “same legal . . . defects” as DAPA and expanded DACA, finding that, like those programs, DACA was implemented without statutory authority.  App. 877–878.  Not only was this determination correct, but it is also dispositive for purposes of our review.  “It is axiomatic that an administrative agency’s power . . . is limited to the authority granted by Congress.”  Bowen v. Georgetown Univ. Hospital,

488 U.S. 204, 208 (1988).  DHS had no authority here to create DACA, and the unlawfulness of that program is a sufficient justification for its rescission.

															The majority opts for a different path, all but ignoring DACA’s substantive legal defect.  See ante, at 18–19.  On the majority’s understanding of APA review, DHS was required to provide additional policy justifications in order to rescind an action that it had no authority to take.  This rule “has no basis in our jurisprudence, and support for [it] is conspicuously absent from the Court’s opinion.”  Massachusetts v. EPA,

549 U.S. 497, 536 (2007) (Roberts, C. J., dissenting).

															The lack of support for the majority’s position is hardly surprising in light of our Constitution’s separation of powers.  No court can compel Executive Branch officials to exceed their congressionally delegated powers by continuing a program that was void ab initio.  Cf. Clinton v. City of New York,

524 U.S. 417 (1998); INS v. Chadha,

462 U.S. 919 (1983); see also EPA v. EME Homer City Generation, L. P.,

572 U.S. 489, 542, n. 5 (2014) (Scalia, J., dissenting); Public Citizen v. Department of Justice,

491 U.S. 440, 487 (1989) (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment).  In reviewing agency action, our role is to ensure that Executive Branch officials do not transgress the proper bounds of their authority, Arlington, 569 U. S., at 327 (Roberts, C. J., dissenting), not to perpetuate a decision to unlawfully wield power in direct contravention of the enabling statute’s clear limits, see UARG, 573 U. S., at 327–328; Barnhart v. Sigmon Coal Co.,

534 U.S. 438, 462 (2002).

															Under our precedents, DHS can only exercise the authority that Congress has chosen to delegate to it.  See UARG, 573 U. S., at 327.  In implementing DACA, DHS under the Obama administration arrogated to itself power it was not given by Congress.  Thus, every action taken by DHS under DACA is the unlawful exercise of power.  Now, under the Trump administration, DHS has provided the most compelling reason to rescind DACA: The program was unlawful and would force DHS to continue acting unlawfully if it carried the program forward.

															III

															The majority’s demanding review of DHS’ decisionmaking process is especially perverse given that the 2012 memorandum flouted the APA’s procedural requirements—the very requirements designed to prevent arbitrary decisionmaking.  Even if DHS were authorized to create DACA, it could not do so without undertaking an administrative rulemaking.  The fact that DHS did not engage in this process likely provides an independent basis for rescinding DACA.  But at the very least, this procedural defect compounds the absurdity of the majority’s position in these cases.

															As described above, DACA fundamentally altered the immigration laws.  It created a new category of aliens who, as a class, became exempt from statutory removal procedures, and it gave those aliens temporary lawful presence.  Both changes contravened statutory limits.  DACA is thus what is commonly called a substantive or legislative rule.[8]  As the name implies, our precedents state that legislative rules are those that “have the force and effect of law.”  Chrysler Corp. v. Brown,

441 U.S. 281, 295 (1979) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Our precedents allow the vast majority of legislative rules to proceed through so-called “informal” notice and comment rulemaking.  See United States v. Florida East Coast R. Co.,

410 U.S. 224, 237–238 (1973).[9]  But under our precedents, an agency must engage in certain procedures mandated by the APA before its rule carries legal force.  Kisor v. Wilkie, 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 23) (“[A] legislative rule, . . . to be valid[,] must go through notice and comment”); id., at ___ (Gorsuch, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 17) (same); Perez v. Mortgage Bankers Assn.,

575 U.S. 92, 96 (2015); cf. Azar v. Allina Health Services, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 1) (same with respect to materially identical procedures under the Medicare Act).  These procedures specify that the agency “shall” publish a notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register, justify the rule by reference to legal authority, describe “the subjects and issues involved” in the rule, and allow interested parties to submit comments.  5 U. S. C. §§553(b)–(c); see also Kisor, 588 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Gorsuch, J.) (slip op., at 17).  As we have recognized recently, use of the word “shall” indicates that these procedures impose mandatory obligations on the agency before it can adopt a valid binding regulation.  See Maine Community Health Options v. United States, 590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 12).  After undergoing notice and comment, the agency then publishes the final rule, which must “articulate a satisfactory explanation for [the] action including a rational connection between the facts found and the choice made.”  Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United States, Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co.,

463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Only after completing this process is the legislative rule a valid law.  See Kisor, 588 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Gorsuch, J.) (slip op., at 17).[10]

															Because DACA has the force and effect of law, DHS was required to observe the procedures set out in the APA if it wanted to promulgate a legislative rule.  It is undisputed, however, that DHS did not do so.  It provided no opportunity for interested parties to submit comments regarding the effect that the program’s dramatic and very significant change in immigration law would have on various aspects of society.  It provided no discussion of economic considerations or national security interests.  Nor did it provide any substantial policy justifications for treating young people brought to this country differently from other classes of aliens who have lived in the country without incident for many years.  And, it did not invoke any law authorizing DHS to create such a program beyond its inexplicable assertion that DACA was consistent with existing law.  Because DHS failed to engage in the statutorily mandated process, DACA never gained status as a legally binding regulation that could impose duties or obligations on third parties.  See id., at ___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 23); id., at ___ (opinion of Gorsuch, J.) (slip op., at 17).

															Given this state of affairs, it is unclear to me why DHS needed to provide any explanation whatsoever when it decided to rescind DACA.  Nothing in the APA suggests that DHS was required to spill any ink justifying the rescission of an invalid legislative rule, let alone that it was required to provide policy justifications beyond acknowledging that the program was simply unlawful from the beginning.  And, it is well established that we do not remand for an agency to correct its reasoning when it was required by law to take or abstain from an action.  See Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc. v. Public Util. Dist. No. 1 of Snohomish Cty.,

554 U.S. 527, 544–545 (2008).  Here, remand would be futile, because no amount of policy explanation could cure the fact that DHS lacked statutory authority to enact DACA in the first place.

															Instead of recognizing this, the majority now requires the rescinding Department to treat the invalid rule as though it were legitimate.  As just explained, such a requirement is not supported by the APA.[11]  It is also absurd, as evidenced by its application to DACA in these cases.  The majority insists that DHS was obligated to discuss its choices regarding benefits and forbearance in great detail, even though no such detailed discussion accompanied DACA’s issuance.  And, the majority also requires DHS to discuss reliance interests at length, even though deferred action traditionally does not take reliance interests into account and DHS was not forced to explain its treatment of reliance interests in the first instance by going through notice and comment.  See infra, at 23–24.  The majority’s demand for such an explanation here simply makes little sense.

															At bottom, of course, none of this matters, because DHS did provide a sufficient explanation for its action.  DHS’ statement that DACA was ultra vires was more than sufficient to justify its rescission.[12]  By requiring more, the majority has distorted the APA review process beyond recognition, further burdening all future attempts to rescind unlawful programs.  Plaintiffs frequently bring successful challenges to agency actions by arguing that the agency has impermissibly dressed up a legislative rule as a policy statement and must comply with the relevant procedures before functionally binding regulated parties.  See, e.g., Mendoza v. Perez, 754 F.3d 1002 (CADC 2014); Natural Resources Defense Council v. EPA, 643 F.3d 311 (CADC 2011); National Family Planning & Reproductive Health Assn., Inc. v. Sullivan, 979 F.2d 227 (CADC 1992).  But going forward, when a rescinding agency inherits an invalid legislative rule that ignored virtually every rulemaking requirement of the APA, it will be obliged to overlook that reality.  Instead of simply terminating the program because it did not go through the requisite process, the agency will be compelled to treat an invalid legislative rule as though it were legitimate.[13]

															IV

															Even if I were to accept the majority’s premise that DACA’s rescission required additional policy justifications, the majority’s reasons for setting aside the agency’s decision still fail.

															A

															First, the majority claims that the Fifth Circuit discussed only the legality of the 2014 memorandum’s conferral of benefits, not its “forbearance component”—i.e., the decision not to place DACA recipients into removal proceedings.  Ante, at 20.  The majority, therefore, claims that, notwithstanding the then-Attorney General’s legal conclusion, then-Acting Secretary Duke was required to consider revoking DACA recipients’ lawful presence and other attendant benefits while continuing to defer their removal.  Ante, at 22–23.  Even assuming the majority correctly characterizes the Fifth Circuit’s opinion, it cites no authority for the proposition that arbitrary and capricious review requires an agency to dissect an unlawful program piece by piece, scrutinizing each separate element to determine whether it would independently violate the law, rather than just to rescind the entire program.[14]

															The then-Attorney General reviewed the thorough decisions of the District Court and the Fifth Circuit.  Those courts exhaustively examined the INA’s text and structure, the relevant provisions of other federal immigration statutes, the historical practice of deferred action, and the general grants of statutory authority to set immigration policy.  Both decisions concluded that DAPA and expanded DACA violated the carefully crafted federal immigration scheme, that such violations could not be justified through reference to past exercises of deferred action, and that the general grants of statutory authority did not give DHS the power to enact such a sweeping nonenforcement program.  Based on the reasoning of those decisions, then-Attorney General Sessions concluded that DACA was likewise implemented without statutory authority.  He directed DHS to restore the rule of law.  DHS followed the then-Attorney General’s legal analysis and rescinded the program.  This legal conclusion more than suffices to supply the “reasoned analysis” necessary to rescind an unlawful program.  State Farm, 463 U. S., at 42.

															The majority has no answer except to suggest that this approach is inconsistent with State Farm.  See ante, at 21–22.  But in doing so, the majority ignores the fact that, unlike the typical “prior policy” contemplated by the Court in State Farm, DACA is unlawful.  Neither State Farm nor any other decision cited by the majority addresses what an agency must do when it has inherited an unlawful program.  It is perhaps for this reason that, rather than responding with authority of its own, the majority simply opts to excise the “unlawful policy” aspect from its discussion.

															B

															Second, the majority claims that DHS erred by failing to take into account the reliance interests of DACA recipients.  Ante, at 23–26.  But reliance interests are irrelevant when assessing whether to rescind an action that the agency lacked statutory authority to take.  No amount of reliance could ever justify continuing a program that allows DHS to wield power that neither Congress nor the Constitution gave it.  Any such decision would be “not in accordance with law” or “in excess of statutory . . . authority.”  5 U. S. C. §§706(2)(A), (C).  Accordingly, DHS would simply be engaging in yet another exercise of unlawful power if it used reliance interests to justify continuing the initially unlawful program, and a court would be obligated to set aside that action.[15]

															Even if reliance interests were sometimes relevant when rescinding an ultra vires action, the rescission still would not be arbitrary and capricious here.  Rather, as the majority does not dispute, the rescission is consistent with how deferred action has always worked.  As a general matter, deferred action creates no rights—it exists at the Government’s discretion and can be revoked at any time.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 18–587, at 104a (DACA and expanded DACA); 8 CFR §214.11(j)(3) (T visas); §214.14(d)(2) (U visas); 62 Fed. Reg. 63249, 63253 (1997) (discussing Exec. Order No. 12711 for certain citizens of the People’s Republic of China).  The Government has made clear time and again that, because “deferred action is not an immigration status, no alien has the right to deferred action.  It is used solely in the discretion of the [Government] and confers no protection or benefit upon an alien.”  DHS Immigration and Customs Enforcement Office of Detention and Removal, Detention and Deportation Officers’ Field Manual §20.8 (Mar. 27, 2006); see also Memorandum from D. Meissner, Comm’r, INS, to Regional Directors et al., pp. 11–12 (Nov. 17, 2000); Memorandum from W. Yates, Assoc. Director of Operations, DHS, Citizenship and Immigration Servs., to Director, Vt. Serv. Center, p. 5 (2003).  Thus, contrary to the majority’s unsupported assertion, ante, at 23, this longstanding administrative treatment of deferred action provides strong evidence and authority for the proposition that an agency need not consider reliance interests in this context.[16]

															Finally, it is inconceivable to require DHS to study reliance interests before rescinding DACA considering how the program was previously defended.  DHS has made clear since DACA’s inception that it would not consider such reliance interests.  Contemporaneous with the DACA memo, DHS stated that “DHS can terminate or renew deferred action at any time at the agency’s discretion.”  Consideration of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Process, 89 Interpreter Releases 1557, App. 4, p. 2 (Aug. 20, 2012).  In fact, DHS repeatedly argued in court that the 2014 memorandum was a valid exercise of prosecutorial discretion in part because deferred action created no rights on which recipients could rely.  Before the Fifth Circuit, DHS stated that “DHS may revoke or terminate deferred action and begin removal proceedings at any time at its discretion.”  Brief for Appellants in Texas v. United States, No. 15–40238, p. 7; see also id., at 45–46.  And before this Court, in that same litigation, DHS reiterated that “DHS has absolute discretion to revoke deferred action unilaterally, without notice or process.”  Brief for United States in United States v. Texas, O. T. 2015, No. 15–674, p. 5; see also id., at 37.  If that treatment of reliance interests was incorrect, it provides yet one more example of a deficiency in DACA’s issuance, not its rescission.

															*  *  *

															President Trump’s Acting Secretary of Homeland Security inherited a program created by President Obama’s Secretary that was implemented without statutory authority and without following the APA’s required procedures.  Then-Attorney General Sessions correctly concluded that this ultra vires program should be rescinded.  These cases could—and should—have ended with a determination that his legal conclusion was correct.

															Instead, the majority today concludes that DHS was required to do far more.  Without grounding its position in either the APA or precedent, the majority declares that DHS was required to overlook DACA’s obvious legal deficiencies and provide additional policy reasons and justifications before restoring the rule of law.  This holding is incorrect, and it will hamstring all future agency attempts to undo actions that exceed statutory authority.  I would therefore reverse the judgments below and remand with instructions to dissolve the nationwide injunctions.
Notes
1
 I concur in the judgment insofar as the majority rejects respondents’ equal protection claim. 

2
 See Immigrant Children’s Educational Advancement and Dropout Prevention Act of 2001, H. R. 1582, 107th Cong., 1st Sess.; Student Adjustment Act of 2001, H. R. 1918, 107th Cong., 1st Sess.; DREAM Act, S. 1291, 107th Cong., 1st Sess. (2001); DREAM Act, S. 1545, 108th Cong., 1st Sess. (2003); Student Adjustment Act of 2003, H. R. 1684, 108th Cong., 1st Sess.; DREAM Act, S. 2863, 108th Cong., 2d Sess., Tit. XVIII (2003); DREAM Act of 2005, S. 2075, 109th Cong., 1st Sess.; Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2006, S. 2611, 109th Cong., 2d Sess., Tit. VI, Subtitle C; American Dream Act, H. R. 5131, 109th Cong., 2d Sess. (2006); DREAM Act of 2007, S. 774, 110th Cong., 1st Sess.; DREAM Act of 2007, S. 2205, 110th Cong., 1st Sess.; STRIVE Act of 2007, H. R. 1645, 110th Cong., 1st Sess., Tit. VI, Subtitle B; Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007, S. 1348, 110th Cong., 1st Sess., Tit. VI, Subtitle C; DREAM Act of 2009, S. 729, 111th Cong., 1st Sess.; American Dream Act, H. R. 1751, 111th Cong., 1st Sess.; Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2010, S. 3932, 111th Cong., 2d Sess., Tit. V, Subtitle D; DREAM Act of 2010, S. 3827, 111th Cong., 2d Sess.; DREAM Act of 2010, S. 3962, 111th Cong., 2d Sess.; DREAM Act of 2010, S. 3963, 111th Cong., 2d Sess.; DREAM Act of 2010, S. 3992, 111th Cong., 2d Sess.; DREAM Act of 2010, H. R. 6497, 111th Cong., 2d Sess.; DREAM Act of 2011, S. 952, 112th Cong., 1st Sess. 

3
 See J. Passel & M. Lopez, Pew Research Center, Up to 1.7 Million Unauthorized Immigrant Youth May Benefit From New Deportation Rules (Aug. 14, 2012). 

4
 The immigration statutes also provide for conditional lawful permanent residence status.  See §1186a(b)(1)(A)(i) (two years for spouses to demonstrate that the marriage “was [not] entered into for the purpose of procuring an alien’s admission as an immigrant”); §1186b (qualifying business entrepreneurs). 

5
 For instance, Congress has carved out rules for aliens who served in the Armed Forces, §§1438–1440, and alien spouses who have been subject to domestic abuse, §§1186a(c)(4)(C)–(D). 

6
 In the DAPA litigation, DHS noted that some deferred-action programs have been implemented by the Executive Branch without explicit legislation.  But “ ‘past practice does not, by itself, create [executive] power.’ ”  Medellín v. Texas,

552 U.S. 491, 532 (2008) (quoting Dames & Moore v. Regan,

453 U.S. 654, 686 (1981)).  If any of these programs had been challenged, it would seem that they would be legally infirm for the same reasons as DACA.  Moreover, if DHS had the authority to create new categories of aliens eligible for deferred action, then all of Congress’ deferred-action legislation was but a superfluous exercise.  Duncan v. Walker,

533 U.S. 167, 174 (2001).  Finally, whereas some deferred-action programs were followed by legislation, DACA has existed for eight years, and Congress is no closer to a legislative solution than it was in 2012.  See, e.g., American Dream and Promise Act of 2019, H. R. 6, 116th Cong., 1st Sess. 

7
 It is uncontested that deferred action frequently occurs on a case-by-case basis, often justified on the grounds that the agency lacks resources to remove all removable aliens.  Even assuming that these ad hoc exercises of discretion are permissible, however, we have stated that “[a]n agency confronting resource constraints may change its own conduct, but it cannot change the law.”  Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA,

573 U.S. 302, 327 (2014). 

8
 The majority tacitly acknowledges as much, as it must.  See ante, at 11–12.  Otherwise, the majority would have to accept that DACA was nothing more than a policy of prosecutorial discretion, which would make its rescission unreviewable.  See Heckler v. Chaney,

470 U.S. 821, 831 (1985). 

9
 As I have previously pointed out, “the APA actually contemplated a much more formal process for most rulemaking.”  Perez v. Mortgage Bankers Assn.,

575 U.S. 92, 128, n. 5 (2015) (opinion concurring in judgment). 

10
 The APA also provides certain exceptions from notice and comment rulemaking.  For example, an agency may promulgate a legally binding rule without notice and comment if good cause exists to do so.

5 U. S. C. §553(b)(B).  This text would become a nullity if the agency could achieve the same effect by simply dispensing with notice and comment procedures altogether. 

11
 Thus, it is not that the APA “should not” be construed to support the majority’s result, ante, at 26 (emphasis added), it is that the APA does not and cannot support that result. 

12
 I express no view on what other reasons would justify an agency’s decision to rescind a procedurally unlawful action.  I merely point out that correctly concluding that the program was illegal is sufficient. 

13
 In my view, even if DACA were permitted under the federal immigration laws and had complied with the APA, it would still violate the Constitution as an impermissible delegation of legislative power.  See Department of Transportation v. Association of American Railroads,

575 U.S. 43, 77 (2015) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment).  Putting aside this constitutional concern, however, the notice and comment process at least attempts to provide a “surrogate political process” that takes some of the sting out of the inherently undemocratic and unaccountable rulemaking process.  Asimow, Interim-Final Rules: Making Haste Slowly, 51 Admin. L. Rev. 703, 708 (1999). 

14
 The majority’s interpretation of the Fifth Circuit’s opinion is highly questionable.  Because a grant of deferred action renders DACA recipients eligible for certain benefits and work authorization, it is far from clear that the Department could separate DACA’s “forbearance component” from the major benefits it conferred without running into yet another APA problem.  The majority points to the fact that, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, relevant regulations exclude those receiving deferred action through DACA from coverage.  Ante, at 19, n. 5.  But that misses the point.  Those regulations were promulgated before “anyone with deferred action under the DACA process applie[d]” for those benefits.  See 77 Fed. Reg. 52616 (2012).  By contrast, DACA recipients have been eligible for and have received Medicare, Social Security, and work authorization for years.  DHS therefore is not writing on a blank slate.  Under the majority’s rule, DHS would need to amend all relevant regulations and explain why all recipients of deferred action who have previously received such benefits may no longer receive them.  Alternatively and perhaps more problematically, it would need to provide a reason why other recipients of deferred action should continue to qualify, while DACA recipients should not.  It thus seems highly likely that the majority’s proposed course of action would be subject to serious arbitrary and capricious challenges. 

15
 The majority contends that this argument does not carry force because the rescission implemented a winddown period during which recipients would continue to receive benefits.  But whether DHS’ decision to wind down DACA was lawful is a separate question from whether DHS was required to consider reliance interests before discontinuing an unlawful program. 

16
 The majority’s approach will make it far more difficult to change deferred-action programs going forward, which is hardly in keeping with this Court’s own understanding that deferred action is an “exercise in administrative discretion” used for administrative “convenience.”  Reno v. American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Comm.,

525 U.S. 471, 484 (1999).  Agencies will likely be less willing to grant deferred action knowing that any attempts to undo it will require years of litigation and time-consuming rulemakings. 


