::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-010
::decision_cite:: 18-725
::decision_name::  Barton v. Barr
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–725

															_________________

															ANDRE MARTELLO BARTON, PETITIONER v. WILLIAM P. BARR, ATTORNEY GENERAL

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[April 23, 2020]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															The stop-time rule ends a noncitizen’s period of continuous residence, making him or her ineligible for certain relief from removal.  But to trigger the rule, it takes more than commission of a specified criminal offense: The offense must also render a noncitizen either “inadmissible” or “deportable.”  In applying these important limitations, the rule directly references the two-track nature of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), a statute that has long distinguished between noncitizens seeking admission and those already admitted.  Inadmissibility, of course, pertains to noncitizens seeking admission; deportability relates to noncitizens already admitted but removable.

															The majority errs by conflating these two terms.  It concludes that the term “inadmissible,” for the purposes of the stop-time rule, refers to a status that a noncitizen could acquire even if he or she is not seeking admission.  Under this logic, petitioner Andre Barton is inadmissible yet, at the same time, lawfully admitted.  Neither the express language of the statute nor any interpretative canons support this paradox; Barton cannot and should not be considered inadmissible for purposes of the stop-time rule because he has already been admitted to the country.  Thus, for the stop-time rule to render Barton ineligible for relief from removal, the Government must show that he committed an offense that made him deportable.  Because the Government cannot meet that burden, Barton should prevail.

															I respectfully dissent.

															I

															A

															Cancellation of removal is a form of immigration relief available to lawful permanent residents (LPRs) and other noncitizens, including those who have never been lawfully admitted.

8 U. S. C. §1229b.  To obtain this relief, both groups must continuously reside in the United States for a certain amount of time.  §1229b(a)(2) (seven years for LPRs); §1229b(b)(1)(A) (10 years for non-LPR noncitizens).

															The stop-time rule ends a noncitizen’s period of continuous residence (1) when the noncitizen “has committed an offense referred to in section 1182(a)(2) of this title” that either (2) “renders” the noncitizen “inadmissible to the United States under section 1182(a)(2) of this title” or (3) renders the noncitizen “removable from the United States under section 1227(a)(2) or 1227(a)(4) of this title.”  §1229b(d)(1).  The second clause directly invokes grounds of inadmissibility; the third clause, although using the term “removable,” directly invokes grounds of deportability.  See §1227(a) (specifying “[c]lasses of deportable aliens”).[1]  Both the second and the third clauses are cabined by the first: In addition to rendering a noncitizen either inadmissible or deportable, the offense must also be one “referred to” in §1182(a)(2).  That provision includes some—but not all—of the grounds of deportability in §1227.

															This distinction between “inadmissible” and “deportable” matters.  Indeed, both are terms of art, so it is critical to understand their histories and their attached meaning over time.  See INS v. St. Cyr,

533 U.S. 289, 312 n. 35 (2001) (noting that “ ‘[w]here Congress borrows terms of art,’ ” with settled meaning, it “ ‘presumably knows and adopts the cluster of ideas that were attached to each borrowed word’ ” (quoting Morissette v. United States,

342 U.S. 246, 263 (1952))).

															Until Congress passed the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA), noncitizens seeking physical entry were placed in “ ‘exclusion proceeding[s],’ ” while those already physically present were placed in “ ‘deportation proceeding[s].’ ”  Judulang v. Holder,

565 U.S. 42, 45 (2011).  Although the grounds for exclusion and deportation—and the procedures applying to each—evolved over time, the immigration laws retained a two-track system; different procedures and processes applied to noncitizens who were deportable and noncitizens who were excludable.  Brief for Immigration Law Professors as Amici Curiae 3–8.

															IIRIRA changed the proceedings and some of the language.  All noncitizens are now channeled into “ ‘removal proceeding[s],’ ” and noncitizens previously labeled “excludable” are now labeled “ ‘inadmissible.’ ”  Judulang, 565 U. S., at 46.  IIRIRA also altered when a noncitizen faces grounds of inadmissibility, formerly exclusion: Rather than focusing on whether a noncitizen had physically entered the country, the statute now asks whether the noncitizen had been lawfully admitted, in any status, to the country.  See §§1101(a)(13)(A), 1182(a).

															Still, the immigration laws have retained their two-track structure.  Inadmissibility and deportability remain separate concepts, triggered by different grounds.  With few exceptions, the grounds for inadmissibility are broader than those for deportability.  Compare §1182(a)(2)(A)(i)(I) with §1227(a)(2)(A)(i) (reflecting different treatment for crimes involving moral turpitude).  Further, while a noncitizen charged with inadmissibility bears the ultimate burden to show that he is admissible, the Government bears the burden of demonstrating that a noncitizen is deportable.  §§1229a(c)(2), (c)(3).

															Whether a noncitizen is charged with inadmissibility or deportability also affects what the noncitizen or the Government must show to carry their respective burdens.  A criminal ground for inadmissibility can be made out by showing either that the noncitizen admitted to conduct meeting the elements of a crime or that she was actually convicted of an offense.  See, e.g., Pazcoguin v. Radcliffe, 292 F.3d 1209, 1213–1215 (CA9 2002) (noncitizen inadmissible because he admitted to health officer that he smoked marijuana in his youth); see also §1182(a)(2)(A).  By contrast, most criminal grounds for deportability can be established only through convictions.  See §§1227(a)(2)(A)(i)–(v), (a)(2)(B)(i).

															Finally, the substantive standards for cancellation of removal are also less stringent for a subset of deportable noncitizens: LPRs like Barton.  Among other things, while an otherwise-eligible LPR must merely demonstrate that he or she deserves the relief as a matter of discretion, see In re C-V-T-, 22 I. & N. Dec. 7, 10–11 (BIA 1998), non-LPRs must demonstrate exceptional and extremely unusual hardship to an LPR or citizen parent, spouse, or child, §1229b(b)(1)(D).

															These separate categories and procedures—treating deportable noncitizens more generously than inadmissible noncitizens, and treating one group of deportable noncitizens (LPRs) the most generously of all—stem from one animating principle.  All noncitizens in this country are entitled to certain rights and protections, but the protections afforded to previously admitted noncitizens and LPRs are particularly strong.  See Demore v. Kim,

538 U.S. 510, 543–544 (2003) (Souter, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).  Indeed, “[t]he immigration laws give LPRs the opportunity to establish a life permanently in this country by developing economic, familial, and social ties indistinguishable from those of a citizen.”  Id., at 544.  Because those already admitted, like Barton, are often presumed to have greater connections to the country, the immigration laws use separate terms and create separate procedures for noncitizens seeking admission to the country on the one hand, and those who were previously admitted on the other.

															The stop-time rule carries that distinction forward.  The rule specifies how a period of continuous residence ends for noncitizens who are seeking admission and thus are inadmissible, as well as noncitizens who are already admitted and thus are deportable.  By using separate terms and grounds for two groups of people, the stop-time rule thus reflects the two-track dichotomy for inadmissible or deportable noncitizens that pervades the INA.

															B

															Barton is a longtime lawfully admitted resident of the United States.  He and his mother moved to the United States from Jamaica when he was about 10 years old.  They both entered legally and, through Barton’s stepfather, soon adjusted their status to LPRs.  When Barton was placed in removal proceedings, all of his immediate family—his mother, his children, his fiancée—were living in the United States.  He had not returned to Jamaica in 25 years.

															Barton was first arrested in 1996, when he was 17 or 18, after a friend shot at his ex-girlfriend’s house while he was present.  Both he and his friend were convicted of, among other things, aggravated assault and possession of a firearm.  Barton later testified before an immigration judge that he was unaware that his friend had a gun or was planning to shoot it.

															After attending a boot camp and obtaining his GED, Barton led a law-abiding life for several years.  But in the mid-2000s, Barton developed a drug problem and was convicted twice on possession charges.  After attending two drug rehabilitation programs, Barton was never arrested again.  He graduated from college, began running an automobile repair shop, and became a father to four young children.

															Just a few years ago—nearly 10 years after his last arrest—the Government detained Barton and placed him in removal proceedings.  Because he had been lawfully admitted to the country, the Government could not charge him with any grounds of inadmissibility.  Rather, the Government charged, and Barton conceded, that he was deportable based on prior firearms and drug convictions.  (All agree that Barton’s aggravated-assault offense did not qualify as a deportable offense under §1227.)  Barton then sought cancellation of removal.

															Perhaps recognizing that Barton had a strong case for cancellation of removal on the merits, see C-V-T-, 22 I. & N. Dec., at 11 (factors such as “family ties within the United States, residence of long duration in this country (particularly when the inception of residence occurred at a young age),” and “business ties” all favor a noncitizen seeking cancellation), the Government contended that Barton was categorically ineligible for that relief.  It reasoned that Barton’s prior offenses triggered the stop-time rule and that Barton therefore could not meet the continuous-residence requirement.

															The problem (for the Government) was finding a prior offense that actually triggered the stop-time rule.  None of the offenses that had made Barton deportable—his firearms and drug convictions—satisfied the stop-time rule’s first clause because §1182(a)(2) does not “refe[r] to” those offenses.  The Government therefore could not argue that Barton’s firearms and drug offenses ended Barton’s period of continuous residence under the stop-time rule.  As for Barton’s aggravated-assault offense, it was not a ground for deportability under §1227(a) and therefore did not render him deportable under the third clause of the stop-time rule.

															So the Government took a different tack: It argued that, even though Barton had already been admitted (and was not seeking readmission), his aggravated-assault offense “render[ed him] inadmissible” under the second clause of the stop-time rule.  That is, although the Government could not charge Barton with inadmissibility, it relied upon a ground of inadmissibility to assert that Barton was not entitled to relief from removal.

															The Immigration Judge agreed with the Government.  The judge made clear, however, that she would have granted Barton’s cancellation application had he satisfied the continuous-residence requirement.  The judge cited, among other things, Barton’s strong family ties, including his four young children who were all U. S. citizens.  The judge concluded that because “his last arrest was over 10 years ago,” Barton “is clearly rehabilitated.”  The judge also concluded that Barton’s family “relies on him and would suffer hardship if he were to be deported to Jamaica.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 36a.

															II

															Barton makes two arguments to this Court.  The Court focuses on the first—that the stop-time rule will “rende[r]” a noncitizen inadmissible only if the person is actually adjudicated inadmissible based on the given offense.  But whether Barton is right on that score is irrelevant because Barton’s second argument—which the Court fails to grapple with meaningfully—is surely correct: At the very least, an offense cannot “rende[r]” someone inadmissible unless the Government can legally charge that noncitizen with a ground of inadmissibility.  That is, the stop-time rule is consistent with basic immigration law: A noncitizen who has already been admitted, and is not seeking readmission, cannot be charged with any ground of inadmissibility and thus cannot be deemed inadmissible.

															Because the stop-time rule uses the terms “removable” (i.e., deportable) and “inadmissible” in the disjunctive, the Court must analyze the rule against the INA’s historic two-track backdrop.  That context confirms that the term “inadmissible” cannot refer to a noncitizen who, like Barton, has already been admitted and is not seeking readmission.  Indeed, the terms “inadmissible” and “deportable” are mutually exclusive in removal proceedings: A noncitizen can be deemed either inadmissible or deportable, not both.  §1229a(e) (for the purposes of removal statute and §1229b—governing cancellation of removal—a noncitizen is “inadmissible under section 1182” if “not admitted to the United States,” and “deportable under section 1227” if “admitted to the United States”).  For the purposes of the stop-time rule, a person is not “inadmissible” unless that person actually seeks admission, and thus is subject to charges of inadmissibility.

															After all, if the provision applied to those who could hypothetically be rendered inadmissible, it could have said so.  For example, the statute would have said that it applied when “the alien has committed an offense referred to in section 1182(a)(2) of this title” that either (2) “could render the alien inadmissible to the United States under section 1182(a)(2) of this title” or (3) could render the noncitizen “removable [i.e., deportable] from the United States under section 1227(a)(2) or 1227(a)(4) of this title.”[2]

															The Government’s reading—that a noncitizen can be inadmissible under the stop-time rule without seeking admission at all—flouts basic statutory-interpretation principles.  Among “the most basic interpretative canons” is “that a statute should be construed so that effect is given to all its provisions, so that no part will be inoperative or superfluous, void or insignificant.”  Corley v. United States,

556 U.S. 303, 314 (2009) (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted).  Were the stop-time rule agnostic to whether the noncitizen actually seeks admission, then the rule’s third clause—regarding deportability—would be meaningless.  When a noncitizen is “removable”—i.e., deportable—under §1227 for an offense “referred to” in §1182(a)(2), he or she is also “inadmissible” for an offense “referred to” in §1182(a)(2).  The third clause has meaning only if inadmissibility and deportability apply, as they always have, to separate groups of noncitizens—noncitizens seeking admission on the one hand, and noncitizens already admitted on the other.

															To be sure, there are limited exceptions to the general rule that questions of admissibility apply only to noncitizens seeking formal admission.  Noncitizens applying for adjustment of status must establish admissibility.  §§1255(a), (l)(2).  But that is because adjustment of status is an express proxy for admission: “Congress created the [process] to enable an alien physically present in the United States to become an LPR without incurring the expense and inconvenience of traveling abroad to obtain an immigrant visa” and then presumably demonstrating admissibility on return.  DHS, U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Ser- vices Policy Manual, vol. 7, pt. A, ch. 1 (2020), https://www.uscis.gov/policy-manual.  Far from a “ginned-up label,” ante, at 15, the term “constructive admission” expresses precisely how the INA conceives of adjustment of status: an admissions process that occurs inside the United States as opposed to outside of it.

															Alternatively, the Government also relies on two narrow provisions of the INA applicable to “[s]pecial agricultural workers,”

8 U. S. C. §1160(a)(3)(B)(ii), and “certain entrants before January 1, 1982,” §1255a(b)(2)(B).  These provisions, it argues, demonstrate that throughout the INA, inadmissibility is a status untethered to admission.  But these provisions, too, refer to noncitizens seeking adjustment of status.  §1160(a)(1) (setting procedures for adjustment of status of certain noncitizens); §1255a(a) (same).[3]  Even if the Government were correct that these statutes deem a noncitizen inadmissible outside of an application for admission, its argument would rise and fall on a few provisions within the expansive INA.[4]  In any event, neither of these provisions is similar in structure and purpose to the stop-time rule.  Neither refers to grounds of inadmissibility and grounds of deportability in tandem.  What is more, neither appears to confer or deny relief exclusively in removal proceedings—where the dichotomy between inadmissibility and deportability is most important.

															By contrast, the Government concedes that the term “inadmissible” in the mandatory-detention statute—a provision structurally similar to the stop-time rule—applies only to noncitizens capable of being charged with inadmissibility.  Brief for Respondent 30.  That provision specifies, in relevant part, that the Government “shall take into custody any alien who—(A) is inadmissible by reason of having committed any offense covered in section 1182(a)(2)” or “(C) is deportable under section 1227(a)(2)(A)(i) . . . on the basis of an offense for which the alien has been sentence[d] to a term of imprisonment of at least 1 year.”  §1226(c)(1) (footnote omitted).

															Although the term “inadmissible” in this context does not refer to an actual adjudication of inadmissibility, see Demore, 538 U. S., at 513, 531, the Government accepts that it must at least refer to a possible charge on a noncitizen seeking admission.  Brief for Respondent 30.  Otherwise, the statute would subject already-admitted noncitizens—even those who are not deportable for any criminal offense—to mandatory detention, simply because they occupy the “status” of inadmissibility.  This provision’s structure is virtually the same as the stop-time rule: It refers to grounds of inadmissibility and grounds of deportability separately and applies to a noncitizen in removal proceedings.

															Given the similar structure, the stop-time rule should be read the same as the mandatory-detention provision: to refer to adjudications that are possible rather than impossible.  If a noncitizen seeking admission has committed a crime under §1182(a)(2) and is convicted of or admits to the offense, that offense “renders” the noncitizen “inadmissible” because the noncitizen can be charged and found inadmissible based on that crime.  But such an offense does not render a noncitizen inadmissible if, like Barton, he or she was admitted years earlier and does not seek readmission.  For a noncitizen who has already been admitted, Congress carved out a separate category of offenses in both the stop-time rule and the mandatory-detention provision: here, those referred to in §1182(a)(2) that render a noncitizen deportable under §§1227(a)(2) and (a)(4).

															III

															The Court reaches a different result only by contorting the statutory language and by breezily waving away applicable canons of construction.  At various points the Court seems to ignore the rule’s second and third clauses entirely—clauses that, as mentioned above, distinguish between grounds of inadmissibility and grounds of deportability.  The Court insists that the statute “operates like traditional criminal recidivist laws” because it precludes cancellation of removal for a noncitizen who “has committed an offense listed in §1182(a)(2) during the initial seven years of residence.”  Ante, at 2; see also ante, at 7, 8, n. 5, 17.

															Had Congress intended for commission of a crime in §1182(a)(2) alone to trigger the stop-time rule, it would have said so.  In fact, it would have stopped at the rule’s first clause, which (without more) states the Court’s rule: that the time of continuous residence stops whenever a noncitizen “has committed an offense referred to in section 1182(a)(2) of this title.”  §1229b(d)(1).

															But that reading ignores the rest of what Congress wrote.  Congress specified that it is not enough for a noncitizen to commit a crime listed in §1182(a)(2); that crime must also “rende[r] the alien inadmissible to the United States under section 1182(a)(2) of this title” or “removable from the United States under section 1227(a)(2) or 1227(a)(4) of this title.”  §1229b(d)(1).  Those words have meaning—invoking the two-track structure of the INA and the distinction between grounds of inadmissibility and grounds of deportability—and the Court cannot simply will them out of existence.

															Even when the Court finally discusses the second clause, “renders the alien inadmissible,” the Court raises more questions than it answers—and answers questions that it need not address at all.  First, the Court claims, the clause makes clear that “cancellation of removal is precluded if an alien committed a §1182(a)(2) offense during the initial seven years of residence, even if (as in Barton’s case) the conviction occurred after the seven years elapsed.”  Ante, at 9.  Despite the emphasis the Court lays on this point, it is irrelevant to this case: Barton does not dispute that the stop-time rule is triggered by the date of commission of a crime rather than a later date of conviction.  Brief for Petitioner 9, n. 4.  The question in this case is whether certain offenses can possibly render Barton inadmissible when he does not seek admission and has already been admitted—regardless of whether one looks to the date of commission or the date of conviction of those offenses.[5]

															Even if this question mattered and were properly before us, Congress could have made the same point—that the stop-time rule is triggered by commission of a crime—by omitting the second and third clauses entirely.  It again could have written what the Court, at various points, seems to wish it had written: The stop-time rule is triggered whenever a noncitizen “has committed an offense referred to in section 1182(a)(2) of this title.”  The second and third clauses—which refer to later events, when a noncitizen is actually “render[ed]” inadmissible or deportable—make the Court’s aside less plausible, not more.

															The Court next insists that the second clause makes clear that the crime must “rende[r]” the noncitizen “inadmissible”—which, in the Court’s view, requires only that a noncitizen admit the crime or be convicted of it.  Ante, at 10.  But given the INA’s historic two-track structure, a noncitizen is not “render[ed]” inadmissible when convicted of an offense that cannot serve as a ground of removal at all.  The Court also fails to clarify why, if conviction or admission alone renders any noncitizen inadmissible regardless of admission status, Congress chose to add a third clause referring to grounds of deportability.

															Indeed, what does the Court do about the canon against surplusage?  The Court does not dispute that its reading makes the entire third clause of the stop-time rule meaningless.  It offers only two rejoinders: (1) that the reference to subsection (a)(4) in the third clause is superfluous under either party’s reading, and (2) that a bit of surplusage makes no difference in any event.  Ante, at 15–16.  To be sure, “[s]ometimes the better overall reading of the statute contains some redundancy.”  Rimini Street, Inc. v. Oracle USA, Inc., 586 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 11).  But the Court relies on more than just “some redundancy.”  It dismisses out of hand one of only three clauses in the stop-time rule—without regard for the clause’s pedigree or the core difference between deportability and inadmissibility.

															It remains this Court’s “ ‘duty “to give effect, if possible, to every clause and word of a statute.” ’ ”  Duncan v. Walker,

533 U.S. 167, 174 (2001) (quoting United States v. Menasche,

348 U.S. 528, 538–539 (1955)).  It must therefore be “ ‘reluctan[t] to treat statutory terms as surplusage’ in any setting,” 533 U. S., at 174 (quoting Babbitt v. Sweet Home Chapter, Communities for Great Ore.,

515 U.S. 687, 698 (1995))—especially in this context, where each word could dictate categorical ineligibility for relief from removal.  It also does not matter that, as the Government points out, §1227(a)(4) did not initially refer to any crimes cross-referenced in §1182(a)(2).  Brief for Respondent 32–33.[6]  Congress’ decision to make a noncitizen ineligible for cancellation based on a to-be-determined class of crimes is far different from excising and giving no meaning to an entire clause.

															*  *  *

															At bottom, the Court’s interpretation is at odds with the express words of the statute, with the statute’s overall structure, and with pertinent canons of statutory construction.  It is also at odds with common sense.  With virtually every other provision of the INA, Congress granted preferential treatment to lawfully admitted noncitizens—and most of all to LPRs like Barton.  But because of the Court’s opinion today, noncitizens who were already admitted to the country are treated, for the purposes of the stop-time rule, identically to those who were not—despite Congress’ express references to inadmissibility and deportability.  The result is that, under the Court’s interpretation, an immigration judge may not even consider whether Barton is entitled to cancellation of removal—because of an offense that Congress deemed too trivial to allow for Barton’s removal in the first instance.  Because the Court’s opinion does no justice to the INA, let alone to longtime LPRs like Barton, I respectfully dissent. 
Notes
1
 Because the third clause refers to grounds of deportability, the Government appears to agree that the terms “removable” and “deportable” are interchangeable.  See Brief for Respondent 21–22. 

2
 The Court seems to suggest that the stop-time rule’s tense simply mirrors §1182(a)(2).  See ante, at 13–14.  It is true that §1182(a)(2) speaks in the present tense, stating that a noncitizen “is inadmissible” if she has been “convicted of ” or “admits having committed” certain offenses.  §1182(a)(2)(A)(i). But the Court’s argument does not follow.  Section 1182, by its terms, applies only to “[c]lasses of aliens ineligible for visas or admission.”  §1182(a).  Because the provision applies only to noncitizens seeking admission, it is only natural that the clause uses the present tense to describe when such a noncitizen “is inadmissible.”  By contrast, the stop-time rule, under the Government’s and Court’s reading, purports to apply to noncitizens not seeking admission at all—and who therefore could not possibly be adjudicated inadmissible. 

3
 Indeed, one of the provisions suggests that, outside the context in which a noncitizen seeks adjustment of status (and thus seeks constructive admission), a noncitizen’s status can be terminated “only upon a determination . . . that the alien is deportable.”  §1160(a)(3)(A). 

4
 The Government also notes that a noncitizen would be deportable were she inadmissible at entry (or during adjustment of status) but erroneously admitted (or allowed to adjust status).  Brief for Respondent 18–19 (citing §1227(a)(1)(A)).  But this provision directly undermines the Government’s reading of the statute.  Were inadmissibility a status untethered to admission, a noncitizen inadmissible at the time of entry would always be inadmissible.  But because a noncitizen who was already admitted cannot be adjudicated inadmissible, Congress made erroneous admission a ground of deportability, not inadmissibility. 

5
 Courts have split over what event triggers the stop-time rule—commission of the offense or a second, later point at which the offense “render[s]” the noncitizen inadmissible.  Brief for Momodoulamin Jobe et al. as Amici Curiae 12–13.  Because this point about the trigger date is neither disputed here nor briefed by either party, the Court’s opinion should not be read to resolve a Circuit split that is not before this Court. 

6
 Barton acknowledges that, even now, the reference to §1227(a)(4) “does little or no work” for a separate reason: Noncitizens who are deportable under that subsection are ineligible for cancellation of removal.  Brief for Petitioner 33, n. 7.  But, according to Barton, there are scenarios in which the reference to §1227(a)(4) nevertheless “ ‘may . . . not be a redundancy,’ ” ibid., and perhaps for this reason, the Government does not focus on this argument in its brief. 


