::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-030
::decision_cite:: 18-935
::decision_name::  Monasky v. Taglieri
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–935

															_________________

															MICHELLE MONASKY, PETITIONER v. DOMENICO TAGLIERI

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[February 25, 2020]

															Justice Thomas, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.

															The Court correctly concludes that an actual agreement between parents is not necessary to establish the habitual residence of an infant who is too young to acclimatize.[1]*  I also agree with the Court’s conclusion that the habitual-residence inquiry is intensely fact driven, requiring courts to take account of the unique circumstances of each case.  I write separately, however, because I would decide this case principally on the plain meaning of the treaty’s text.

															I

															This case requires us to interpret the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, Oct. 25, 1980, T. I. A. S. No. 11670, S. Treaty Doc. No. 99–11, as implemented by the International Child Abduction Remedies Act (ICARA), as amended,

22 U. S. C. §9001 et seq.  Article 3 of the Convention provides that the “removal or the retention of a child is to be considered wrongful” when “it is in breach of rights of custody attributed to a person . . . under the law of the State in which the child was habitually resident immediately before the removal or retention” and “at the time of removal or retention those rights were actually exercised.”  S. Treaty Doc. No. 99–11, at 7.  Under ICARA, a parent may petition a federal or state court to return an abducted child to the child’s country of habitual residence.  §9003(b).  ICARA does not define habitual residence; it merely states that the petitioning parent must “establish by a preponderance of the evidence . . . that the child has been wrongfully removed or retained within the meaning of the Convention.”  §9003(e)(1)(A).  The Convention also does not define the phrase.

															“ ‘The interpretation of a treaty, like the interpretation of a statute, begins with its text.’ ”  Abbott v. Abbott,

560 U.S. 1, 10 (2010) (quoting Medellín v. Texas,

552 U.S. 491, 506 (2008)).  The Court recognizes this fact, but it concludes that the text only “suggests” that habitual residence is a fact-driven inquiry, and ultimately relies on atextual sources to “confir[m] what the Convention’s text suggests.”  Ante, at 7.  In my view, the ordinary meaning of the relevant language at the time of the treaty’s enactment provides strong evidence that the habitual-residence inquiry is inherently fact driven.  See Schindler Elevator Corp. v. United States ex rel. Kirk,

563 U.S. 401, 407 (2011).

															In 1980, as today, “habitual” referred to something that was “[c]ustomary” or “usual.”  Black’s Law Dictionary 640 (5th ed. 1979); see also 6 Oxford English Dictionary 996 (2d ed. 1989) (“existing as a settled practice or condition; constantly repeated or continued; customary”); Webster’s Third New International Dictionary 1017 (1976) (similar).  And “residence” referred to a “[p]ersonal presence at some place of abode,” Black’s Law Dictionary, at 1176, “one’s usual dwelling-place,” 13 Oxford English Dictionary, at 707, or “the act or fact of abiding or dwelling in a place for some time,” Webster’s Third New International Dictionary, at 1931; see also ibid. (“a temporary or permanent dwelling place, abode, or habitation”).

															These definitions demonstrate that the concept of habitual residence for a child too young to acclimatize cannot be reduced to a neat set of necessary and sufficient conditions.  Answering the question of what is customary or usual, for instance, requires judges to consider a host of facts, such as the presence or absence of bank accounts and driver’s licenses, the length and type of employment, and the strength and duration of other community ties.  Determining whether there is a residence involves the consideration of factors such as the presence or absence of a permanent home, the duration in the country at issue, and, in some cases, an actual agreement between the parents to reside in a particular place.  Accordingly, the ordinary meaning of the phrase “habitual residence” provides strong support for the conclusion that an objective agreement between the child’s parents is not required.  This plain meaning should serve as the primary guide for our interpretation.  See Water Splash, Inc. v. Menon, 581 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 4); Olympic Airways v. Husain,

540 U.S. 644, 649 (2004).

															II

															This case exemplifies the wisdom of firmly anchoring our discussion in the text before turning to the decisions of sister signatories—especially when those decisions are not contemporaneous with the treaty’s passage.  Here, the Court finds it meaningful that foreign courts have interpreted the phrase “habitual residence” as a fact-driven inquiry.  Ante, at 10–11.  Though a “ ‘clear trend’ ” has certainly emerged in foreign courts, ante, at 10, this consensus appears to have developed only within the past decade.

															Lady Hale of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom noted as much in the 2013 decision cited by the Court.  As she explained, for many years “the English courts [had] been tempted to overlay the factual concept of habitual residence with legal constructs,” creating legal rules that dictated a child’s habitual residence.  A v. A, [2014] A. C. ¶39 (2013) (U. K.); see also id., ¶37.  According to one commentator writing in 2001, though “academics and judges” had stressed “that the term should not be treated as a term of art and should not be complicated by technical legal requirements similar to those applicable to the concept of domicile,” “in some cases these statements seem[ed] to have been pure lip-service, since many courts [were] unable to resist the temptation to ‘legalise’ the concept.”  Schuz, Habitual Residence of Children Under the Hague Child Abduction Convention—Theory and Practice, 13 Child & Family L. Q. 1, 4 (2001).  Thus, until recently, “[t]he approach of many [foreign] courts [had] been to focus exclusively on the purpose of the parents in relocating,” an inquiry that speaks to the legal concept of domicile.  Schuz, Policy Considerations in Determining the Habitual Residence of a Child and the Relevance Of Context, 11 J. Transnat’l L. & Pol’y 101, 103 (2001) (footnote omitted).

															It seems, then, that it took approximately 30 years from the time of the Convention’s enactment in 1980 for foreign jurisdictions to coalesce around an interpretation of habitual residence.  This relatively recent evolution brings into bold relief the risk of relying too heavily on the decisions of foreign courts in lieu of a fulsome textual analysis.  Because the decisions are not contemporaneous with the treaty’s passage, they do not necessarily provide the best evidence of the original understanding of the phrase.  And reflexively looking to foreign courts raises the question whether this Court would have resolved this case differently had the issue been presented in 1990, 2000, or even 2010, before the clear trend emerged.

															The Court attempts to sidestep this difficulty by pointing to a statement in ICARA’s preamble that stresses “the need for uniform international interpretation of the Convention.”  

22 U. S. C. §9001(b)(3)(B); see ante, at 10.  It should go without saying that if our independent assessment of habitual residence led to a conclusion that diverged from the emerging consensus, invocation of this prefatory language to force agreement at the expense of plain meaning would be unfounded.  By relying too heavily on the judicial decisions of the treaty’s other signatories, rather than on a more thorough textual analysis, we risk being persuaded to reach the popular answer, but perhaps not the correct one.  In short, “we should not substitute the judgment of other courts for our own.”  Abbott, 560 U. S., at 43 (Stevens, J., dissenting); see also Olympic Airways, 540 U. S., at 655, n. 9.

															To avoid these potential pitfalls, I would rely on the plain meaning of “habitual residence” to conclude that an actual agreement is not necessary.  See supra, at 2–3.  That conclusion is bolstered by the Convention’s explanatory report.  Interpretations from the courts of sister signatories, though recent, also support the conclusion because they align with the meaning of the text and our own independent judgment.  Because the Court places insufficient weight on the treaty’s text, I cannot join Part II of its opinion.
Notes
1
* The Court states that we “granted certiorari to clarify the standard for habitual residence,” ante, at 6, and the opinion contains language that may be read to apply to older children, see, e.g., ante, at 8–9.  But the relevant question presented focuses exclusively on the habitual residence of “an infant [who] is too young to acclimate to her surroundings.”  Pet. for Cert. i.  I would confine our analysis to that distinct question, which is the only one briefed by the parties. 


