::SCDB_caseID:: 2018-068
::decision_cite:: 18-966
::decision_name::  Department of Commerce v. New York
::decision_year:: 2019
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 18–966

															_________________

															DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE, et al., PETITIONERS v. NEW YORK, et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 27, 2019]

															

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh join, concurring in part and dissenting in part.

															In March 2018, the Secretary of Commerce exercised his broad discretion over the administration of the decennial census to resume a nearly unbroken practice of asking a question relating to citizenship.  Our only role in this case is to decide whether the Secretary complied with the law and gave a reasoned explanation for his decision.  The Court correctly answers these questions in the affirmative.  Ante, at 11–23.  That ought to end our inquiry.

															The Court, however, goes further.  For the first time ever, the Court invalidates an agency action solely because it questions the sincerity of the agency’s otherwise adequate rationale.  Echoing the din of suspicion and distrust that seems to typify modern discourse, the Court declares the Secretary’s memorandum “pretextual” because, “viewing the evidence as a whole,” his explanation that including a citizenship question on the census would help enforce the Voting Rights Act (VRA) “seems to have been contrived.”  Ante, at 23, 26, 28.  The Court does not hold that the Secretary merely had additional, unstated reasons for reinstating the citizenship question.  Rather, it holds that the Secretary’s stated rationale did not factor at all into his decision.

															The Court’s holding reflects an unprecedented departure from our deferential review of discretionary agency decisions.  And, if taken seriously as a rule of decision, this holding would transform administrative law.  It is not difficult for political opponents of executive actions to generate controversy with accusations of pretext, deceit, and illicit motives.  Significant policy decisions are regularly criticized as products of partisan influence, interest-group pressure, corruption, and animus.  Crediting these accusations on evidence as thin as the evidence here could lead judicial review of administrative proceedings to devolve into an endless morass of discovery and policy disputes not contemplated by the Administrative Procedure Act (APA).

															Unable to identify any legal problem with the Secretary’s reasoning, the Court imputes one by concluding that he must not be telling the truth.  The Court therefore up- holds the decision of the District Court—which, in turn, was transparently based on the application of an administration-specific standard.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 527a (crediting respondents’ allegations that “the current Depart- ment of Justice has shown little interest in enforcing the” VRA (emphasis added)).

															The law requires a more impartial approach.  Even assuming we are authorized to engage in the review undertaken by the Court—which is far from clear—we have often stated that courts reviewing agency action owe the Executive a “presumption of regularity.”  Citizens to Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v. Volpe,

401 U.S. 402, 415 (1971).  The Court pays only lipservice to this principle.  But, the evidence falls far short of supporting its decision.  The Court, I fear, will come to regret inventing the principles it uses to achieve today’s result.  I respectfully dissent from Part V of the opinion of the Court.[1]

															I

															As the Court explains, federal law directs the Secretary of Commerce to “take a decennial census.”

13 U. S. C. §141(a); see U. S. Const., Art. I, §2, cl. 3; Amdt. XIV, §2; ante, at 1–2.  The discretion afforded the Secretary is extremely broad.  Subject only to constitutional limitations and a handful of inapposite statutory requirements, the Secretary is expressly authorized to “determine the inquiries” on the census questionnaire and to conduct the census “in such form and content as he may determine.”  §§5, 141(a); see ante, at 14–16, 20–23.[2]  Prior census questionnaires have included questions ranging from sex, age, and race to commute, education, and radio ownership.  And between 1820 and 2010, every decennial census questionnaire but one asked some segment of the population a question related to citizenship.  The 2010 census was the first since 1840 that did not include any such question.

															In March 2018, the Secretary issued a memorandum reinstating a citizenship question on the 2020 census.  He explained that the Department of Justice (DOJ) had formally requested reinstatement of the question because the data obtained would help enforce §2 of the VRA.  He further explained that the question had been well tested in light of its extensive previous use, that he had consulted with the Census Bureau on the proposal, and that his final decision incorporated feedback from the Bureau.  He recognized that staff at the Bureau believed that better data could be obtained through modeling and reliance on existing records, but he disagreed with that assessment, explaining that the data was inconclusive and that he thought it preferable to ask the question directly of the entire population.  Respondents brought suit, seeking judicial review of the Secretary’s decision under the APA,

5 U. S. C. §706.

															II

															As relevant here, the APA requires courts to “hold unlawful and set aside” agency action that is “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.”  §706(2)(A).  We have emphasized that “[r]eview under the arbitrary and capricious standard is deferential.”  National Assn. of Home Builders v. Defenders of Wildlife,

551 U.S. 644, 658 (2007); see Glickman v. Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc.,

521 U.S. 457, 466, n. 8 (1997).  It requires the reviewing court to determine whether the agency “ ‘examine[d] the relevant data and articulate[d] a satisfactory explanation for its action.’ ”  FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc.,

556 U.S. 502, 513 (2009).  We have described this as a “ ‘narrow’ standard of review” under which the reviewing court cannot “ ‘substitute its judgment for that of the agency,’ and should ‘uphold a decision of less than ideal clarity if the agency’s path may reasonably be discerned.’ ”  Id., at 513–514 (citation omitted); accord, Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United States, Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co.,

463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983).[3]

															Part IV–B of the opinion of the Court correctly applies this standard to conclude that the Secretary’s decision survives ordinary arbitrary-and-capricious review.  That holding should end our inquiry.

															But the opinion continues.  Acknowledging that “no particular step” in the proceedings here “stands out as inappropriate or defective,” even after reviewing “all the evidence in the record . . . , including the extra-record discovery,” ante, at 26, the Court nevertheless agrees with the District Court that the Secretary’s rationale for reinstating the citizenship question was “pretextual—that is, that the real reason for his decision was something other than the sole reason he put forward in his memorandum, namely enhancement of DOJ’s VRA enforcement efforts.”  351 F. Supp. 3d 502, 660 (SDNY 2019); see ante, at 28.  According to the Court, something just “seems” wrong.  Ibid.

															This conclusion is extraordinary.  The Court engages in an unauthorized inquiry into evidence not properly before us to reach an unsupported conclusion.  Moreover, each step of the inquiry offends the presumption of regularity we owe the Executive.  The judgment of the District Court should be reversed.

															A

															Section 706(2) of the APA contemplates review of the administrative “record” to determine whether an agency’s “action, findings, and conclusions” satisfy six specified standards.  See §§706(2)(A)–(F).  None instructs the Court to inquire into pretext.  Consistent with this statutory text, we have held that a court is “ordinarily limited to evaluating the agency’s contemporaneous explanation in light of the existing administrative record.”  Ante, at 23 (citing Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,

435 U.S. 519, 549 (1978)); see SEC v. Chenery Corp.,

318 U.S. 80, 87 (1943) (“The grounds upon which an administrative order must be judged are those upon which the record discloses that its action was based”).  If an agency’s stated findings and conclusions withstand scrutiny, the APA does not permit a court to set aside the decision solely because the agency had “other unstated reasons” for its decision, such as “political considerations” or the “Administration’s priorities.”  Ante, at 24.

															Unsurprisingly, then, this Court has never held an agency decision arbitrary and capricious on the ground that its supporting rationale was “pretextual.”  Nor has it previously suggested that this was even a possibility.  Under “settled propositions” of administrative law, ante, at 23, pretext is virtually never an appropriate or relevant inquiry for a reviewing court to undertake.

															Respondents conceptualize pretext as a subset of “arbitrary and capricious” review.  It is far from clear that they are correct.  But even if they were, an agency action is not arbitrary or capricious merely because the decisionmaker has other, unstated reasons for the decision.  Ante, at 24.  Nor is an agency action arbitrary and capricious merely because the decisionmaker was “inclined” to accomplish it before confirming that the law and facts supported that inclination.  In re Dept. of Commerce, 586 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (Gorsuch, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (slip op., at 2).

															Accordingly, even under respondents’ approach, a showing of pretext could render an agency action arbitrary and capricious only in the infinitesimally small number of cases in which the administrative record establishes that an agency’s stated rationale did not factor at all into the decision, thereby depriving the action of an adequate supporting rationale.[4]  This showing is extremely difficult to make because the administrative record will rarely, if ever, contain evidence sufficient to show that an agency’s stated rationale did not actually factor into its decision.  And we have stated that a “strong showing of bad faith or improper behavior” is necessary to venture beyond the agency’s “administrative findings” and inquire into “the mental processes of administrative decisionmakers.”  Overton Park, 401 U. S., at 420.[5]  We have never before found Overton Park’s exception satisfied, much less invalidated an agency action based on “pretext.”

															Undergirding our arbitrary-and-capricious analysis is our longstanding precedent affording the Executive a “presumption of regularity.”  Id., at 415; see United States v. Chemical Foundation, Inc.,

272 U.S. 1, 14–15 (1926).  This presumption reflects respect for a coordinate branch of government whose officers not only take an oath to support the Constitution, as we do, Art. VI, but also are charged with “faithfully execut[ing]” our laws, Art. II, §3.  See United States v. Morgan,

313 U.S. 409, 422 (1941) (presumption of regularity ensures that the “integrity of the administrative process” is appropriately respected).  In practice, then, we give the benefit of the doubt to the agency.

															B

															The Court errs at the outset by proceeding beyond the administrative record to evaluate pretext.  Respondents have not made a “strong showing of bad faith or improper behavior.”  Overton Park, supra, at 420.

															The District Court’s initial order granting extra-record discovery relied on four categories of evidence:

															“evidence that [the Secretary] was predisposed to reinstate the citizenship question when he took office; that the [DOJ] hadn’t expressed a desire for more detailed citizenship data until the Secretary solicited its view; that he overruled the objections of his agency’s career staff; and that he declined to order more testing of the question given its long history.”  Dept. of Commerce, 586 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 2).

															None of this comes close to showing bad faith or improper behavior.  Indeed, there is nothing even “unusual about a new cabinet secretary coming to office inclined to favor a different policy direction, soliciting support from other agencies to bolster his views, disagreeing with staff, or cutting through red tape.”  Ibid.  Today all Members of the Court who reach the question agree that the District Court abused its discretion in ordering extra-record discovery based on this evidence.  Ante, at 25 (“We agree with the Government that the District Court should not have ordered extra-record discovery when it did”).

															Nevertheless, the Court excuses the error because, in its view, “the new material that the parties [later] stipulated should have been part of the administrative record . . . largely justified such extra-record discovery as occurred.”  Ibid.  Given the requirement that respondents make a “strong showing” of bad faith, one would expect the Court to identify which “new material” supported such a showing.  It does not.  Nor does the Court square its suggestion that some of the extra-record discovery was not “justified” with its consideration of “all . . . the extra-record discovery.”  Ante, at 25–26.  Regardless, I assume that the Court has in mind the administrative-record materials that the District Court would later rely on to establish pretext:

															“evidence that [the Secretary] had made the decision to add the citizenship question well before DOJ requested its addition in December 2017; the absence of any mention, at all, of VRA enforcement in the discussions of adding the question that preceded the [DOJ] Letter; unsuccessful attempts by Commerce Department staff to shop around for a request by another agency regarding citizenship data; and [the Secretary’s] personal outreach to Attorney General Sessions, followed by the [DOJ] Letter; not to mention the conspicuous procedural irregularities that accompanied the decision to add the question.”  351 F. Supp. 3d, at 661 (citations omitted).

															This evidence fails to make a strong showing of bad faith or improper behavior.  Taken together, it proves at most that the Secretary was predisposed to add a citizenship question to the census and took steps to achieve that end before settling on the VRA rationale he included in his memorandum.  Perhaps he had reasons for adding the citizenship question other than the VRA, but by the Court’s own telling, that does not amount to evidence of bad faith or improper behavior.  Ante, at 24; see Dept. of Commerce, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 2).

															The Court thus errs in relying on materials outside the record to support its holding.  And the Court does not claim that the evidence in the administrative record alone would prove that the March 2018 memorandum was a pretext.  Given the presumption of regularity, the evidence discussed above falls far short of establishing that the VRA rationale did not factor at all into the Secretary’s decision.

															C

															Even if it were appropriate for the Court to rely on evidence outside the administrative record, that evidence still fails to establish pretext.  None of the evidence cited by the Court or the District Court comes close to showing that the Secretary’s stated rationale—that adding a citizenship question to the 2020 census questionnaire would “provide . . . data that are not currently available” and “permit more effective enforcement of the [VRA],” App. to Pet. for Cert. 548a—did not factor at all into his decision.

															Once again, the evidence cited by the Court suggests at most that the Secretary had “other unstated reasons” for reinstating the citizenship question.  Ante, at 24.  For example, the Court states that the Secretary’s Director of Policy “initially attempted to elicit requests for citizenship data from the Department of Homeland Security and DOJ’s Executive Office for Immigration Review.”  Ante, at 27.  But this hardly shows pretext.  It simply suggests that the Director believed that citizenship information could be useful in tackling problems related to national security and illegal immigration—a view that would also explain why the Secretary might not have been “considering VRA enforcement” early on.  Ibid.; see also American Community Survey, Why We Ask: Place of Birth, Citizenship and Year of Entry (2016) (explaining that inquiries about “place of birth, citizenship, and year of entry” provide statistics that are “essential for agencies and policy makers setting and evaluating immigration policies and laws, understanding how different immigrant groups are assimilated, and monitoring against discrimination”), https:// www2 . census . gov / programs - surveys / acs / about / qbyqfact / 2016/Citizenship.pdf (as last visited June 25, 2019).

															The Court emphasizes that the VRA rationale for the citizenship question originated in the Department of Commerce, and suggests that DOJ officials unthinkingly fell in line after the Attorney General was looped into the process.  See ante, at 27.  But the Court ignores that the letter was drafted by the then-Acting Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights and reviewed by five other DOJ attorneys, including the Chief of the DOJ’s Voting Section.  351 F. Supp. 3d, at 554–556.  Given the DOJ’s multilayer review process and its explanation for requesting citizenship data, the Court’s suggestion that the DOJ’s letter was inadequately vetted or improperly “influence[d]” by the Department of Commerce is entirely unsupported.  Ante, at 27.  In any event, none of this suggests, much less proves, that the Secretary harbored an unstated belief that adding the citizenship question would not help enforce the VRA, or that the VRA rationale otherwise did not factor at all into his decision.  It simply suggests that a number of executive officials agreed that adding a citizenship question would support VRA enforcement.

															The Court’s other evidence is even further afield.  The Court thinks it telling that the DOJ’s letter included “a specific request that Commerce collect the [citizenship] data by means of reinstating a citizenship question on the census,” rather than a more open-ended “entreaty for better citizenship data.”  Ibid.  I do not understand how the specificity of the DOJ’s letter bears on whether the Secretary’s rationale was pretextual—particularly since the letter specifically explained why “census questionnaire data regarding citizenship, if available, would be more appropriate for use in redistricting and in [VRA] litigation” than existing data.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 568a; see id., at 567a–568a.  Unless the Court is now suggesting that agency correspondence must comply with the Court’s subjective, unsupported view of what “might” constitute a “typical request from another agency,” ante, at 27, the specificity of the DOJ’s letter is irrelevant.  The Court also points to the DOJ’s decision not to meet with the Census Bureau “to discuss alternative ways to meet DOJ’s stated need for improved citizenship data.”  Ibid.  But the Court does not explain how the DOJ’s refusal bears on the Secretary’s rationale.  Besides, it is easy to understand why DOJ officials would not be interested in meeting with the Census Bureau.  The meeting would have been with career employees whose acknowledged purpose was to talk the DOJ out of its request.  See 351 F. Supp. 3d, at 557.  Having already considered the issue and explained the rationale behind the request, it seems at least plausible that the DOJ officials believed such a meeting would be unproductive.

															In short, the evidence cited by the Court establishes, at most, that leadership at both the Department of Commerce and the DOJ believed it important—for a variety of reasons—to include a citizenship question on the census.

															The Court also fails to give credit where it is due.  The Secretary initiated this process inclined to favor what he called “Option B”—that is, simply “add[ing] a citizenship question to the decennial census.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 552a.  But the Census Bureau favored “Option C”—relying solely on “administrative records” to supply the information needed by the DOJ.  Id., at 554a.  The Secretary considered this view and found it a “potentially appealing solution,” ibid., but concluded that it had shortcomings.  Rather than revert to his original inclination, however, he “asked the Census Bureau to develop a fourth alternative, Option D, which would combine Options B and C.”  Id., at 555a.  And he settled on that solution.  Whatever one thinks of the Secretary’s choice, his willingness to change his mind in light of the Bureau’s feedback belies the idea that his rationale or decisionmaking process was a  pretext.

															The District Court’s lengthy opinion pointed to other facts that, in its view, supported a finding of pretext.  351 F. Supp. 3d, at 567–572, 660–664 (discussing the statements, e-mails, acts, and omissions of numerous people involved in the process).  I do not deny that a judge predisposed to distrust the Secretary or the administration could arrange those facts on a corkboard and—with a jar of pins and a spool of string—create an eye-catching conspiracy web.  Cf. id., at 662 (inferring “from the various ways in which [the Secretary] and his aides acted like people with something to hide that they did have something to hide”).  But the Court does not rely on this evidence, and rightly so: It casts no doubt on whether the Secretary’s stated rationale factored into his decision.  The evidence suggests, at most, that the Secretary had multiple reasons for wanting to include the citizenship question on the census.

															Finally, if there could be any doubt about this conclusion, the presumption of regularity resolves it.  Where there are equally plausible views of the evidence, one of which involves attributing bad faith to an officer of a coordinate branch of Government, the presumption compels giving the benefit of the doubt to that officer.

															III

															The Court’s erroneous decision in this case is bad enough, as it unjustifiably interferes with the 2020 census.  But the implications of today’s decision are broader.  With today’s decision, the Court has opened a Pandora’s box of pretext-based challenges in administrative law.

															Today’s decision marks the first time the Court has ever invalidated an agency action as “pretextual.”  Having taken that step, one thing is certain: This will not be the last time it is asked to do so.  Virtually every significant agency action is vulnerable to the kinds of allegations the Court credits today.  These decisions regularly involve coordination with numerous stakeholders and agencies, involvement at the highest levels of the Executive Branch, opposition from reluctant agency staff, and—perhaps most importantly—persons who stand to gain from the action’s demise.  Opponents of future executive actions can be expected to make full use of the Court’s new approach.

															The 2015 “Open Internet Order” provides a case in point.  In 2015, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) adopted a controversial order reclassifying broadband Internet access service as a “telecommunications service” subject to regulation under Title II of the Communications Act.  See In re Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet, 30 FCC Rcd. 5601, 5618 (2015).  According to a dissenting Commissioner, the FCC “flip-flopp[ed]” on its previous policy not because of a change in facts or legal understanding, but based on “one reason and one reason alone.  President Obama told us to do so.”  Id., at 5921 (statement of Comm’r Pai).  His view was supported by a 2016 congressional Report in which Republican Senate staff concluded that “the FCC bent to the political pressure of the White House” and “failed to live up to standards of transparency.”  Majority Staff Report, Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, Regulating the Internet: How the White House Bowled Over FCC Independence, 114th Cong., 1st Sess., 29 (Comm. Print 2016).  The Report cited evidence strikingly similar to that relied upon by the Court here—including agency-initiated “meetings with certain outside groups to support” the new result, id., at 3; “apparen[t] . . . concern from the career staff that there was insufficient notice to the public and affected stakeholders,” id., at 4; and “regula[r] communicatio[n]” between the FCC Chairman and “presidential advisors,” id., at 25.

															Under the malleable standard applied by the Court today, a serious case could be made that the Open Internet Order should have been invalidated as “pretextual,” regardless of whether any “particular step in the process stands out as inappropriate or defective.”  Ante, at 26.  It is enough, according to the Court, that a judge believes that the ultimate rationale “seems to have been contrived” when the evidence is considered “as a whole.”  Ante, at  26, 28.

															Now that the Court has opened up this avenue of attack, opponents of executive actions have strong incentives to craft narratives that would derail them.  Moreover, even if the effort to invalidate the action is ultimately unsuccessful, the Court’s decision enables partisans to use the courts to harangue executive officers through depositions, discovery, delay, and distraction.  The Court’s decision could even implicate separation-of-powers concerns insofar as it enables judicial interference with the enforcement of the laws.

															In short, today’s decision is a departure from traditional principles of administrative law.  Hopefully it comes to be understood as an aberration—a ticket good for this day and this train only.

															*  *  *

															Because the Secretary’s decision to reinstate a citizenship question on the 2020 census was legally sound and a reasoned exercise of his broad discretion, I respectfully dissent from Part V of the opinion of the Court.
Notes
1
 Justice Kavanaugh and I join Parts I, II, III, and IV of the opinion of the Court.  Justice Gorsuch joins Parts I, II, III, IV–B, and IV–C. 

2
 Justice Alito has made a strong argument that the specific decision at issue here—whether to include a citizenship question on the census—is a matter “committed to agency discretion by law.”

5 U. S. C. §701(a)(2); see post, at 3 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).  As he explains, the Secretary’s decision plainly falls within the scope of the Secretary’s constitutional authority, does not implicate any statutory prohibition, and is among the “inquiries” and “content[s]” of the census that the Secretary is expressly directed to “determine” for himself.  §§5, 141(a); see post, at 5–15.  Nevertheless, I assume, for the purpose of this opinion, that the Secretary’s decision is subject to judicial review. 

3
 Deferential review of the agency’s discretionary choices and reasoning under the arbitrary-and-capricious standard stands in marked contrast to a court’s plenary review of the agency’s interpretation and application of the law.  See §§706(A)–(D) (court must review agency action to ensure that it complies with all “constitutional,” “statutory,” and “procedur[al]” requirements, and is otherwise “in accordance with law”). 

4
 We do not have before us a claim that information outside the administrative record calls into question the legality of an agency action based on an unstated, unlawful bias or motivation (e.g., a claim of religious discrimination under the Free Exercise Clause).  But to the extent such a claim is viable, the analysis would have nothing to do with the arbitrary-and-capricious review pressed by respondents.  See §§706(2)(A)–(C) (addressing agency actions that violate “constitutional” or “statutory” requirements, or that “otherwise [are] not in accordance with law”). 

5
 Insofar as Overton Park authorizes an exception to review on the administrative record, it has been criticized as having “no textual grounding in the APA” and as “created by the Court, without citation or explanation, to facilitate Article III review.”  Gavoor & Platt, Administrative Records and the Courts, 67 U. Kan. L. Rev. 1, 44 (2018); see id., at 22 (further arguing that the exception was “neither presented by the facts of the case nor briefed by the parties”).  The legitimacy and scope of the exception—which by its terms contemplates only “administrative officials who participated in the decision . . . giv[ing] testimony explaining their action,” Overton Park, 401 U. S., at 420—is an important question that may warrant future consideration.  But because the Court’s holding is incorrect regardless of the validity of the Overton Park exception, I will apply it here. 


