::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-064
::decision_cite:: 18-921
::decision_name::  Roman Catholic Archdiocese of San Juan v. Feliciano
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															ROMAN CATHOLIC ARCHDIOCESE OF SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO, PETITIONER v. YALI ACEVEDO  FELICIANO, et al.

															on petition for writ of certiorari to the supreme court of puerto rico

															No. 18–921. Decided February 24, 2020 

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas joins, concurring.

															I join the opinion of the Court but write separately to note other important issues that may arise on remand.

															First, the decision of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico is based on an erroneous interpretation of this Court’s old decision in Municipality of Ponce v. Roman Catholic Apostolic Church in Porto Rico,

210 U.S. 296, 323–324 (1908).  The main question decided by the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico below was whether the Catholic Church in Puerto Rico is a single entity for civil law purposes or whether any subdivisions, such as dioceses or parishes, or affiliated entities, such as schools and trusts, are separate entities for those purposes.  The Supreme Court of Puerto Rico held that Ponce decided that in Puerto Rico the Catholic Church is a single entity for purposes of civil liability.  That was incorrect.

															The question in Ponce was whether the Catholic Church or the municipality of Ponce held title to two churches that had been built and maintained during the Spanish colonial era using both private and public funds.  The Church sued to establish that it had title, and the municipality argued that the Church could not bring suit because it was not a juridical person.  210 U. S., at 308–309.  After considering the Treaty of Paris, Dec. 10, 1898,

30Stat.
1754, which ended the Spanish-American War, this Court simply held that the Church was a juridical person and thus could bring suit.  See 210 U. S., at 310–311, 323–324.  This Court did not hold that the Church is a single entity for purposes of civil liability, but that is how the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico interpreted the decision.  That court quoted Ponce’s statement that “ ‘[t]he Roman Catholic Church has been recognized as possessing legal personality by the treaty of Paris, and its property rights solemnly safeguarded.’ ”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 7 (quoting 210 U. S., at 323–324).  Immediately thereafter it wrote: “Despite this, the intermediate appellate court understood that each division of the Catholic Church in Puerto Rico equals the creation of a different and separate legal entity and did not recognize that legal personality of the Catholic Church.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 8.

															This is an incorrect interpretation of this Court’s decision, and it would have been appropriate for us to reverse the decision below on that ground were it not for the jurisdictional issue that the Court addresses.  The assets that may be reached by civil plaintiffs based on claims regarding conduct by entities and individuals affiliated in some way with the Catholic Church (or any other religious body) is a difficult and important issue, but at least one thing is clear: This Court’s old decision in Ponce did not address that question.

															Second, as the Solicitor General notes, the Free Exercise Clause of the
 
First Amendment at a minimum demands that all jurisdictions use neutral rules in determining whether particular entities that are associated in some way with a religious body may be held responsible for debts incurred by other associated entities.  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae on Pet. for Cert. 8–13.

															Beyond this lurk more difficult questions, including (1) the degree to which the First Amendment permits civil authorities to question a religious body’s own understanding of its structure and the relationship between associated entities and (2) whether, and if so to what degree, the
 
First Amendment places limits on rules on civil liability that seriously threaten the right of Americans to the free exercise of religion as members of a religious body.

															The Court does not reach these issues because of our jurisdictional holding.  But they are questions that may well merit our review.
													
