::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-069
::decision_cite:: 18-9674
::decision_name::  Andrus v. Texas
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															TERENCE TRAMAINE ANDRUS v. TEXAS

															on petition for writ of certiorari to the  court of criminal appeals of texas

															No. 18–9674. Decided June 15, 2020

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Gorsuch join, dissenting.

															The Court clears this case off the docket, but it does so on a ground that is hard to take seriously.  According to the Court, “[i]t is unclear whether the Court of Criminal Appeals considered Strickland prejudice at all.”  Ante, at 17; see Strickland v. Washington,

466 U.S. 668 (1984).  But that reading is squarely contradicted by the opinion of the Court of Criminal Appeals (CCA), which said explicitly that Andrus failed to show prejudice:

															“[Andrus] fails to meet his burden under Strickland v. Washington,

466 U.S. 668 (1984), to show by a preponderance of the evidence that his counsel’s representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness and that there was a reasonable probability that the result of the proceedings would have been different, but for counsel’s deficient performance.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 7–8 (emphasis added).

															Not only does the CCA opinion contain this express statement, but it adds that the trial court did not heed Strickland’s test for prejudice.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 8, n. 2 (“[T]hroughout its findings, the trial court misstates the Strickland prejudice standard by omitting the standard’s ‘reasonable probability’ language”).  And the record clearly shows that the trial court did not apply that test to Andrus’s claim.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 36–37.  A majority of this Court cannot seriously think that the CCA pointed this out and then declined to reach the issue of prejudice.

															How, then, can the Court get around the unmistakable evidence that the CCA decided the issue of prejudice?  It begins by expressing doubt about the meaning of the critical sentence reproduced above.  According to the Court, that sentence “does not conclusively reveal whether [the CCA] determined . . . that Andrus had failed to demonstrate prejudice under Strickland’s second prong.”  Ante, at 17.  It is hard to write a more conclusive sentence than “[Andrus] fails to meet his burden under Strickland v. Washington,

466 U.S. 668 (1984), to show by a preponderance of the evidence . . . that there was a reasonable probability that the result of the proceedings would have been different, but for counsel’s deficient performance.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 7–8.  Perhaps the Court thinks the CCA should have used CAPITAL LETTERS or bold type.  Or maybe it should have added: “And we really mean it!!!”

															Not only does the Court express doubt that the CCA reached the prejudice prong of Strickland, but the Court is not sure that the CCA decided even the performance prong.  See ante, at 17 (“Its one-sentence denial of Andrus’ Strickland claim . . . does not conclusively reveal whether it determined that Andrus had failed to demonstrate deficient performance under Strickland’s first prong”).  The Court may feel it necessary to make that statement because the CCA disposed of both prongs in the sentence quoted above.  So if that sentence is not sufficient to show that the CCA reached the prejudice prong, there is no better reason for thinking that it decided the performance prong.  But if the Court really thinks that the CCA did not decide the performance issue, why does it treat that issue differently from the prejudice issue?  Why does it decide the performance question in the first instance?  Are we now a court of “first view” and not, as we have often stressed, a “court of review”?  See, e.g., McLane Co., Inc. v. EEOC, 581 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 11).  The Court’s disparate treatment of the two parts of the CCA’s dispositive sentence shows that the Court is only selectively skeptical.

															The Court gives two reasons for doubting that the CCA reached the issue of prejudice, but both are patent makeweights.  First, the Court notes that the CCA’s per curiam opinion, unlike the concurring opinion, did not provide reasons for finding that prejudice had not been shown.  But the failure to explain is not the same as failure to decide.  Today’s “tutelary remand” is a misuse of our supervisory authority and a waste of our and the CCA’s time.  Lawrence v. Chater,

516 U.S. 163, 185 (1996) (Scalia, J., dissenting).

															Second, the Court observes that the concurring opinion, which discussed the question of prejudice at some length, was joined by only four of the CCA’s nine judges.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 9–21 (opinion of Richardson, J., joined by Keller, P. J., and Hervey and Slaughter, JJ.).  But that does not show that the other five declined to decide the question of prejudice.  The most that one might possibly infer is that these judges might not have agreed with everything in the concurrence, but even that is by no means a certainty.  So the Court’s reading of the decision below is contrary to the plain language of the decision and is not supported by any reason worth mentioning.

															If that were not enough, the Court’s reading is belied by Andrus’s interpretation of the CCA decision.  Andrus nowhere claims that the CCA failed to decide the issue of prejudice.  On the contrary, the petition faults the CCA for providing “a truncated ‘no prejudice’ analysis,” not for failing to decide the prejudice issue at all.  Pet. for Cert. ii (emphasis added).  Indeed, the main argument in the petition is that we should modify Strickland because courts are too often rejecting ineffective-assistance claims for lack of prejudice.  That argument would make no sense if the CCA had not decided the prejudice issue, something that is never even implied by Andrus’s counsel in either the 40-page petition or the 11-page reply.

															Not only did the CCA clearly hold that Andrus failed to show prejudice, but there was strong support for that holding in the record.  To establish prejudice, Andrus must show “a substantial, not just conceivable, likelihood” that one of the jurors who unanimously agreed on his sentence would not have done so if his trial counsel had presented more mitigation evidence.  Cullen v. Pinholster,

563 U.S. 170, 189 (2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).  This inquiry focuses not just on the newly offered mitigation evidence, but on the likelihood that this evidence would have overcome the State’s aggravation evidence.  See, e.g., Sears v. Upton,

561 U.S. 945, 955–956 (2010) (per curiam).  While providing a lengthy (and one-sided) discussion of Andrus’s mitigation evidence, the Court never acknowledges the volume of evidence that Andrus is prone to brutal and senseless violence and presents a serious danger to those he encounters whether in or out of prison.  Instead, the Court says as little as possible about Andrus’s violent record.

															For example, here is what the Court says about the crimes for which he was sentenced to death: “Not long after Andrus’ release from prison at age 18, Andrus attempted the fatal carjacking that resulted in his capital convictions.”  Ante, at 6.

															Here is what the record shows.  According to Andrus’s confession, he left his apartment one evening, “ ‘amped up’ on embalming fluid [PCP] mixed with marijuana, cocaine, and beer,” and looked for a car to “go joy-riding.”  No. AP–76,936, p. 5 (CCA, Mar. 23, 2016) (Reh’g Op.); see also 54 Tr., Pl. Exh. 147 (Andrus’s confession).  In the parking lot of a supermarket, he saw Avelino Diaz drop off his wife, Patty, in front of the store.  By his own admission, Andrus approached Diaz’s car with a gun drawn, but he abandoned the carjacking attempt when he saw that the car had a stick shift, which he could not drive.  Alerted by a store employee, Patty Diaz ran out of the store and found her husband lying by the side of the car with a bullet wound in the back of his head.  He was subsequently pronounced dead.

															After killing Avelino Diaz, Andrus approached a car with two occupants, whom Andrus described as an “old man and old wom[a]n.”  Id., at 2.  Andrus fired three shots into the car.  The first went through the open driver’s side window and hit the passenger, Kim-Phuong Vu Bui, in the head.  As the car sped away, Andrus fired a second shot, which entered the back driver’s side window, and a third shot, which “entered at an angle indicating that the shot originated from a farther distance.”  Reh’g Op. 3.  One of these bullets hit the driver, Steve Bui, in the back.  Seeing that blood was coming out of his wife’s mouth, Steve drove her to a hospital and carried her inside, where she died.

															These senseless murders in October 2008 were not Andrus’s first crimes.  In 2004, he was placed on probation for a drug offense, but just two weeks later, he committed an armed robbery.  Andrus and two others followed a woman to her parents’ home, where they held her at gunpoint and took her purse and gym bag.  The woman identified Andrus as the perpetrator who held the gun.  Id., at 7.[1]

															For this offense, Andrus was sent to a juvenile facility where he showed such “ ‘significant assaultive behavior’ toward other youths and staff ” that he was eventually transferred to an adult facility.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 11.[2]  Shortly after his release, he again violated his supervisory conditions and was returned to the adult facility.  Ibid.

															When he was released again, he committed an armed robbery of a dry-cleaning establishment.  Around 7 a.m. one morning, he entered the business and chased the owner, Tuan Tran, to the back.  He beat Tran and threatened him with a knife until Tran gave him money.  Reh’g Op. 7–8.  Andrus’s ex-girlfriend told the police that he confessed to this robbery.  8 Habeas Tr. 14.[3]  In addition, Tran picked Andrus out of a photo array, 46 Tr. 66, 69–70,[4] and testified at trial that the robber was in the courtroom, id., at 59–60, but he was too afraid to point at Andrus, ibid.  Less than two months after this crime, Andrus murdered Avelino Diaz and Kim-Phuong Vu Bui.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 11.

															While awaiting trial for those murders, Andrus carried out a reign of terror in jail.  He assaulted another detainee, attacked and injured corrections officers, threw urine in an officer’s face, repeatedly made explicit threats to kill officers and staff, flooded his cell and threw excrement on the walls, and engaged in other disruptive acts.  Id., at 11–13.  Also while awaiting trial for murder, he had the words “murder weapon” tattooed on his hands and a smoking gun tattooed on his forearm.  51 Tr. 65–66, 68.

															In sum, the CCA assessed the issue of prejudice in light of more than the potentially mitigating evidence that the Court marshals for Andrus.  The CCA had before it strong aggravating evidence that Andrus wantonly killed two innocent victims and shot a third; that he committed other violent crimes; that he has a violent, dangerous, and unstable character; and that he is a threat to those he encounters.

															The CCA has already held once that Andrus failed to establish prejudice.  I see no good reason why it should be required to revisit the issue.
Notes
1
 The Court credits Andrus’s version of the event and repeats his allegation that he merely served as a “lookout.”  Ante, at 1, 6.  As the CCA explained on direct review, however, the victim matched Andrus’s clothing to the gunman’s.  See Reh’g Op. 7; see also 46 Tr. 23–25 (arresting officer explaining that only Andrus’s clothing matched the suspect description). 

2
 Just as the Court provides a one-sided summary of Andrus’s mitigation evidence, it quibbles at every possible turn with the aggravation evidence.  Thus, the Court states that Andrus’s behavioral problems at this facility “were notably mild.”  Ante, at 14.  But the witness on whose testimony the Court relies admitted that Andrus’s record included multiple threats and assaults against staff and other youths.  4 Habeas Tr. 202–204.  And the record shows that Andrus had needed to be removed from general population 77 times.  10 id., Pl. Exh. 28.  The responsible corrections officials obviously did not think this record was “notably mild,” because it prompted them to transfer him to an adult facility.  

3
 Although Andrus’s ex-girlfriend later signed an affidavit contradicting herself, 41 id., Def. Exh. 139, pp. 1–2, she admitted at the habeas hearing—after learning that she had been recorded—that she indeed relayed this information, 8 id., at 48–49.  Andrus’s counsel tried to withdraw her affidavit from evidence, having “learned information that caused [them] to doubt [her] reliability.”  Id., at 5. 

4
 The Court again credits Andrus’s allegation that he did not commit this robbery.  See ante, at 14–15.  In support, the Court points to what Tran told police shortly after being beaten and to supposed problems with the photo array from which Tran first identified Andrus.  But the Court cannot dispute that Andrus’s ex-girlfriend linked him to the robbery or that Tran identified him twice.  Nor did the detective to whom the Court refers in fact testify that “the inclusion of Andrus’ photograph in a belated photo array . . . gave rise to numerous reliability concerns.”  Ante, at 15; see 8 Habeas Tr. 31 (testifying, in response to habeas counsel’s repeated questions whether delays affect the reliability of identifications, only that they “can”); id., at 42–44 (affirming the bases for Andrus’s inclusion). 


