::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-015
::decision_cite:: 19-123
::decision_name::  Fulton v. Philadelphia
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–123

															_________________

															SHARONELL FULTON, et al., PETITIONERS v. CITY OF PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit

															[June 17, 2021]

															

															Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Thomas and  Justice Alito join, concurring in the judgment.

															The Court granted certiorari to decide whether to overrule Employment Div., Dept. of Human Resources of Ore. v. Smith,

494 U.S. 872 (1990).  As Justice Alito’s opinion demonstrates, Smith failed to respect this Court’s precedents, was mistaken as a matter of the Constitution’s original public meaning, and has proven unworkable in practice.  A majority of our colleagues, however, seek to sidestep the question.  They agree that the City of Philadelphia’s treatment of Catholic Social Services (CSS) violates the Free Exercise Clause.  But, they say, there’s no “need” or “reason” to address the error of Smith today.  Ante, at 5 (majority opinion); ante, at 2 (Barrett, J., concurring).

															On the surface it may seem a nice move, but dig an inch deep and problems emerge.  Smith exempts “neutral” and “generally applicable” laws from
 
First Amendment scrutiny.  494 U. S., at 878–881.  The City argues that its challenged rules qualify for that exemption because they require all foster-care agencies—religious and non-religious alike—to recruit and certify same-sex couples interested in serving as foster parents.  For its part, the majority assumes (without deciding) that Philadelphia’s rule is indeed “neutral” toward religion.  Ante, at 5.  So to avoid Smith’s exemption and subject the City’s policy to
 
First Amendment scrutiny, the majority must carry the burden of showing that the policy isn’t “generally applicable.”

															*

															That path turns out to be a long and lonely one.  The district court held that the City’s public accommodations law (its Fair Practices Ordinance or FPO) is both generally applicable and applicable to CSS.  At least initially, the majority chooses to bypass the district court’s major premise—that the FPO qualifies as “generally applicable” under Smith.  It’s a curious choice given that the FPO applies only to certain defined entities that qualify as public accommodations while the “generally applicable law” in Smith was “an across-the-board criminal prohibition” enforceable against anyone.  494 U. S., at 884.  But if the goal is to turn a big dispute of constitutional law into a small one, the majority’s choice to focus its attack on the district court’s minor premise—that the FPO applies to CSS as a matter of municipal law—begins to make some sense.  Still, it isn’t exactly an obvious path.  The Third Circuit did not address the district court’s interpretation of the FPO.  And not one of the over 80 briefs before us contests it.  To get to where it wishes to go, then, the majority must go it alone.  So much for the adversarial process and being “a court of review, not of first view.”  Brownback v. King, 592 U. S. ___, ___, n. 4 (2021) (slip op., at 5, n. 4) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Trailblazing through the Philadelphia city code turns out to be no walk in the park either.  As the district court observed, the City’s FPO defines “public accommodations” expansively to include “[a]ny provider” that “solicits or accepts patronage” of “the public or whose . . . services [or] facilities” are “made available to the public.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 77a (alteration omitted; emphasis deleted).  And, the district court held, this definition covers CSS because (among other things) it “publicly solicits prospective foster parents” and “provides professional ‘services’ to the public.”  Id., at 78a.  All of which would seem to block the majority’s way.  So how does it get around that problem?

															It changes the conversation.  The majority ignores the FPO’s expansive definition of “public accommodations.”  It ignores the reason the district court offered for why CSS falls within that definition.  Instead, it asks us to look to a different public accommodations law—a Commonwealth of Pennsylvania public accommodations statute.  See ante, at 10–11 (discussing Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 43, §954(l) (Purdon Cum. Supp. 2009)).  And, the majority promises, CSS fails to qualify as a public accommodation under the terms of that law.  But why should we ignore the City’s law and look to the Commonwealth’s?  No one knows because the majority doesn’t say.

															Even playing along with this statutory shell game doesn’t solve the problem.  The majority highlights the fact that the state law lists various examples of public accommodations—including hotels, restaurants, and swimming pools.  Ante, at 11.  The majority then argues that foster agencies fail to qualify as public accommodations because, unlike these listed entities, foster agencies “involv[e] a customized and selective assessment.”  Ibid.  But where does that distinction come from?  Not the text of the state statute, not state case law, and certainly not from the briefs.  The majority just declares it—a new rule of Pennsylvania common law handed down by the United States Supreme Court.

															The majority’s gloss on state law isn’t just novel, it’s probably wrong.  While the statute lists hotels, restaurants, and swimming pools as examples of public accommodations, it also lists over 40 other kinds of institutions—and the statute emphasizes that these examples are illustrative, not exhaustive.  See §954(l).  Among its illustrations, too, the statute offers public “colleges and universities” as examples of public accommodations.  Ibid.  Often these institutions do engage in a “customized and selective assessment” of their clients (students) and employees (faculty).  And if they can qualify as public accommodations under the state statute, it isn’t exactly clear why foster agencies cannot.  What does the majority have to say about this problem?  Again, silence.

															If anything, the majority’s next move only adds to the confusion.  It denies cooking up any of these arguments on its own.  It says it merely means to “agree with CSS’s position . . . that its ‘foster services do not constitute a “public accommodation” under the City’s Fair Practices Ordinance.’ ”  Ante, at 13 (quoting App. to Pet. for Cert. 159a).  But CSS’s cited “position”—which comes from a letter it sent to the City before litigation even began—includes nothing like the majority’s convoluted chain of reasoning involving a separate state statute.  Id., at 159a–160a.  Instead, CSS’s letter contends that the organization’s services do not qualify as “public accommodations” because they are “only available to at-risk children who have been removed by the state and are in need of a loving home.”  Ibid.  The majority tells us with assurance that  it “agree[s] with” this position, adding that it would be “incongru[ous]” to “dee[m] a private religious foster agency a public accommodation.”  Ante, at 12.

															What to make of all this?  Maybe this part of the majority opinion should be read only as reaching for something—anything—to support its curious separate-statute move.  But maybe the majority means to reject the district court’s major premise after all—suggesting it would be incongruous for public accommodations laws to qualify as generally applicable under Smith because they do not apply to everyone.  Or maybe the majority means to invoke a canon of constitutional avoidance: Before concluding that a public accommodations law is generally applicable under Smith, courts must ask themselves whether it would be “incongru[ous]” to apply that law to religious groups.  Maybe all this ambiguity is deliberate, maybe not.  The only thing certain here is that the majority’s attempt to cloak itself in CSS’s argument introduces more questions than answers. 

															*

															Still that’s not the end of it.  Even now, the majority’s circumnavigation of Smith remains only half complete.  The City argues that, in addition to the FPO, another generally applicable nondiscrimination rule can be found in §15.1 of its contract with CSS.  That provision independently instructs that foster service providers “shall not discriminate or permit discrimination against any individual on the basis of . . . sexual orientation.”  Supp. App. to Brief for City Respondents 31.  This provision, the City contends, amounts to a second and separate rule of general applicability exempt from
 
First Amendment scrutiny under Smith.  Once more, the majority must find some way around the problem.  Its attempt to do so proceeds in three steps.

															First, the majority directs our attention to another provision of the contract—§3.21.  See ante, at 7–9.  Entitled “Rejection of Referral,” this provision prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation, race, religion, or other grounds “unless an exception is granted” in the government’s “sole discretion.”  Supp. App. to Brief for City Respondents 16–17.  Clearly, the majority says, that provision doesn’t state a generally applicable rule against discrimination because it expressly contemplates “exceptions.”  Ante, at 8.

															But how does that help?  As §3.21’s title indicates, the provision contemplates exceptions only when it comes to the referral stage of the foster process—where the government seeks to place a particular child with an available foster family.  See A. Scalia & B. Garner, Reading Law:  The Interpretation of Legal Texts 221 (2012) (“The title and headings are permissible indicators of meaning” (boldface deleted)).  So, for example, the City has taken race into account when placing a child who “used racial slurs” to avoid placing him with parents “of that race.”  Tr. of Oral Arg. 61.  Meanwhile, our case has nothing to do with the referral—or placement—stage of the foster process.  This case concerns the recruitment and certification stages—where foster agencies like CSS screen and enroll adults who wish to serve as foster parents.  And in those stages of the foster process, §15.1 seems to prohibit discrimination absolutely.

															That difficulty leads the majority to its second step.  It asks us to ignore §3.21’s title and its limited application to the referral stage.  See ante, at 9.  Instead, the majority suggests, we should reconceive §3.21 as authorizing exceptions to the City’s nondiscrimination rule at every stage of the foster process.  Once we do that, the majority stresses, §3.21’s reservation of discretion is irreconcilable with §15.1’s blanket prohibition against discrimination.  See ante, at 9.

															This sets up the majority’s final move—where the real magic happens.  Having conjured a conflict within the contract, the majority devises its own solution.  It points to some state court decisions that, it says, set forth the “rule” that Pennsylvania courts shouldn’t interpret one provision in a contract “to annul” another part.  Ibid.  To avoid nullifying §3.21’s reservation of discretion, the majority insists, it has no choice but to rewrite §15.1.  All so that—voila—§15.1 now contains its own parallel reservation of discretion.  See ante, at 9.  As rewritten, the contract contains no generally applicable rule against discrimination anywhere in the foster process. 

															From start to finish, it is a dizzying series of maneuvers.  The majority changes the terms of the parties’ contract, adopting an uncharitably broad reading (really revision) of §3.21.  It asks us to ignore the usual rule that a more specific contractual provision can comfortably coexist with a more general one.  And it proceeds to resolve a conflict it created by rewriting §15.1.  Once more, too, no party, amicus, or lower court argued for any of this.

															To be sure, the majority again claims otherwise—representing that it merely adopts the arguments of CSS and the United States.  See ante, at 10.  But here, too, the majority’s representation raises rather than resolves questions.  Instead of pursuing anything like the majority’s contract arguments, CSS and the United States suggest that §3.21 “alone triggers strict scrutiny,” Reply Brief 5 (emphasis added), because that provision authorizes the City “to grant formal exemptions from its policy” of nondiscrimination, Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 26 (emphasis added).  On this theory, it’s irrelevant whether §3.21 or §15.1 reserve discretion to grant exemptions at all stages of the process or at only one stage.  Instead, the City’s power to grant exemptions from its nondiscrimination policy anywhere “undercuts its asserted interests” and thus “trigger[s] strict scrutiny” for applying the policy everywhere.  Id., at 21.  Exceptions for one means strict scrutiny for all.  See, e.g., Tandon v. Newsom, ante, at 1–2 (per curiam).  All of which leaves us to wonder: Is the majority just stretching to claim some cover for its novel arguments?  Or does it actually mean to adopt the theory it professes to adopt?  

															*

															Given all the maneuvering, it’s hard not to wonder if the majority is so anxious to say nothing about Smith’s fate that it is willing to say pretty much anything about municipal law and the parties’ briefs.  One way or another, the majority seems determined to declare there is no “need” or “reason” to revisit Smith today.  Ante, at 5 (majority opinion); ante, at 2 (Barrett, J., concurring).

															But tell that to CSS.  Its litigation has already lasted years—and today’s (ir)resolution promises more of the same.  Had we followed the path Justice Alito outlines—holding that the City’s rules cannot avoid strict scrutiny even if they qualify as neutral and generally applicable—this case would end today.  Instead, the majority’s course guarantees that this litigation is only getting started.  As the final arbiter of state law, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court can effectively overrule the majority’s reading of the Commonwealth’s public accommodations law.  The City can revise its FPO to make even plainer still that its law does encompass foster services.  Or with a flick of a pen, municipal lawyers may rewrite the City’s contract to close the §3.21 loophole.

															Once any of that happens, CSS will find itself back where it started.  The City has made clear that it will never tolerate CSS carrying out its foster-care mission in accordance with its sincerely held religious beliefs.  To the City, it makes no difference that CSS has not denied service to a single same-sex couple; that dozens of other foster agencies stand willing to serve same-sex couples; or that CSS is committed to help any inquiring same-sex couples find those other agencies.  The City has expressed its determination to put CSS to a choice:  Give up your sincerely held religious beliefs or give up serving foster children and families.  If CSS is unwilling to provide foster-care services to same-sex couples, the City prefers that CSS provide no foster-care services at all.  This litigation thus promises to slog on for years to come, consuming time and resources in court that could be better spent serving children.  And throughout it all, the opacity of the majority’s professed endorsement of CSS’s arguments ensures the parties will be forced to devote resources to the unenviable task of debating what it even means.  

															Nor will CSS bear the costs of the Court’s indecision alone.  Individuals and groups across the country will pay the price—in dollars, in time, and in continued uncertainty about their religious liberties.  Consider Jack Phillips, the baker whose religious beliefs prevented him from creating custom cakes to celebrate same-sex weddings.  See Masterpiece Cakeshop, Ltd. v. Colorado Civil Rights Comm’n, 584 U. S. ___ (2018).  After being forced to litigate all the way to the Supreme Court, we ruled for him on narrow grounds similar to those the majority invokes today.  Because certain government officials responsible for deciding Mr. Phillips’s compliance with a local public accommodations law uttered statements exhibiting hostility to his religion, the Court held, those officials failed to act “neutrally” under Smith.  See 584 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 16–18).  But with Smith still on the books, all that victory assured Mr. Phillips was a new round of litigation—with officials now presumably more careful about admitting their motives.  See Associated Press, Lakewood Baker Jack Phillips Sued for Refusing Gender Transition Cake (Mar. 22, 2021),  https : / / denver . cbslocal. com / 2021 / 03 / 22 / jack - phillips - masterpiece-cakeshop-lakewood-transgender/.  A nine-year odyssey thus barrels on.  No doubt, too, those  who cannot afford such endless litigation under Smith’s regime have been and will continue to be forced to forfeit religious freedom that the Constitution protects.

															The costs of today’s indecision fall on lower courts too.  As recent cases involving COVID–19 regulations highlight, judges across the country continue to struggle to understand and apply Smith’s test even thirty years after it was announced.  In the last nine months alone, this Court has had to intervene at least half a dozen times to clarify how Smith works.  See, e.g., Tandon, ante, at p. 1; Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn v. Cuomo, 592 U. S. ___ (2020) (per curiam); High Plains Harvest Church v. Polis, 592 U. S ___ (2020).  To be sure, this Court began to resolve at least some of the confusion surrounding Smith’s application in Tandon.  But Tandon treated the symptoms, not the underlying ailment.  We owe it to the parties, to religious believers, and to our colleagues on the lower courts to cure the problem this Court created.

															It’s not as if we don’t know the right answer.  Smith has been criticized since the day it was decided.  No fewer than ten Justices—including six sitting Justices—have questioned its fidelity to the Constitution.  See ante, at 9–10 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment); ante, at 1 (Barrett, J., concurring).  The Court granted certiorari in this case to resolve its fate.  The parties and amici responded with over 80 thoughtful briefs addressing every angle of the problem.  Justice Alito has offered a comprehensive opinion explaining why Smith should be overruled.  And not a single Justice has lifted a pen to defend the decision.  So what are we waiting for?

															We hardly need to “wrestle” today with every conceivable question that might follow from recognizing Smith was wrong.  See ante, at 2 (Barrett, J., concurring).  To be sure, any time this Court turns from misguided precedent back toward the Constitution’s original public meaning, challenging questions may arise across a large field of cases and controversies.  But that’s no excuse for refusing to apply the original public meaning in the dispute actually before us.    Rather than adhere to Smith until we settle on some “grand unified theory” of the Free Exercise Clause for all future cases until the end of time, see American Legion v. American Humanist Assn., 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 24), the Court should overrule it now, set us back on the correct course, and address each case as it comes.

															What possible benefit does the majority see in its studious indecision about Smith when the costs are so many?  The particular appeal before us arises at the intersection of public accommodations laws and the
 
First Amendment; it involves same-sex couples and the Catholic Church.  Perhaps our colleagues believe today’s circuitous path will at least steer the Court around the controversial subject matter and avoid “picking a side.”  But refusing to give CSS the benefit of what we know to be the correct interpretation of the Constitution is picking a side.  Smith committed a constitutional error.  Only we can fix it.  Dodging the question today guarantees it will recur tomorrow.  These cases will keep coming until the Court musters the fortitude to supply an answer.  Respectfully, it should have done so today.
													
