::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-068
::decision_cite:: 19-1039
::decision_name::  PennEast Pipeline Co. v. New Jersey
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Barrett
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–1039

															_________________

															PENNEAST PIPELINE COMPANY, LLC, PETITIONER v. NEW JERSEY, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit

															[June 29, 2021]

															

															Justice Barrett, with whom Justice Thomas, Justice Kagan, and Justice Gorsuch join, dissenting.

															A straightforward application of our precedent resolves this case.  Congress passed the Natural Gas Act in reliance on its power to regulate interstate commerce, and we have repeatedly held that the Commerce Clause does not permit Congress to strip the States of their sovereign immunity.  Recognizing that barrier, the Court insists that eminent domain is a special case.  New Jersey has no sovereign immunity to assert, it says, because the States surrendered to private condemnation suits in the plan of the Convention.  This argument has no textual, structural, or historical support.  Because there is no reason to treat private condemnation suits differently from any other cause of action created pursuant to the Commerce Clause, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															As a “general rule,” Congress cannot circumvent state sovereign immunity’s limitations on the judicial power through its Article I powers.  Allen v. Cooper, 589 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 7).  Thus, even in areas where Article I grants it “complete lawmaking authority,” Congress lacks a tool that it could otherwise use to implement its power: “authorization of suits by private parties against unconsenting States.”  Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida,

517 U.S. 44, 72 (1996).  Consistent with this principle, we have rejected arguments that the Indian Commerce Clause, the Interstate Commerce Clause, or the Intellectual Property Clause allows Congress to abrogate a State’s immunity from suit.  Ibid.; Allen, 589 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 6–7).

															We have recognized but one exception to this general limit on Congress’ Article I powers: the Bankruptcy Clause.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 7).  Based on the “principally in rem” nature of bankruptcy jurisdiction and the “ ‘unique history’ ” of that clause, we reasoned that States “already ‘agreed in the plan of the Convention not to assert any sovereign immunity defense’ in bankruptcy proceedings.”  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 7–8) (quoting Central Va. Community College v. Katz,

546 U.S. 356, 377 (2006)).  Other than this “good-for-one-clause-only holding,” we have not held that Article I trumps state sovereign immunity.  Allen, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9).[1]

															State surrender of immunity to private suits is therefore rare in our constitutional system.  Nonetheless, the Court insists that private condemnation suits are one of the rare exceptions.

															II

															A

															According to the Court, the States surrendered their immunity to private condemnation suits in the “plan of the Convention.”  Ante, at 15. Making this showing is no easy task.  We will not conclude that States relinquished their sovereign immunity absent “compelling evidence that the Founders thought such a surrender inherent in the constitutional compact.”  Blatchford v. Native Village of Noatak,

501 U.S. 775, 781 (1991).

															The Court accepts PennEast’s argument that there is such compelling evidence here.  The reasoning goes like this: States “surrendered any immunity from the federal government’s eminent-domain power in the plan of the convention”; when they did so, “they were consenting to that power as it was then ‘known’ ”; and “[a]t the Founding, eminent domain was universally known as a power that could be delegated to private parties.”  Brief for Petitioner 23, 33.  So, the argument concludes, the States “were consenting to a power that the federal government could exercise either itself or through delegations to private parties.”  Id., at 34.  The States “simply do not have any immunity to invoke in this context.”  Id., at 23.

															These premises warrant clarification.  First, the Constitution enumerates no stand-alone “eminent-domain power.”[2]  The Court recognizes—as does our precedent—that the Federal Government may exercise the right of eminent domain only “so far as is necessary to the enjoyment of the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution.”  Kohl v. United States,

91 U.S. 367, 372 (1876); see McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421 (1819).  Any taking of property provided for by Congress is thus an exercise of another constitutional power—in the case of the Natural Gas Act, the Commerce Clause—augmented by the Necessary and Proper Clause.  So when Congress allows a private party to take property in service of a federally authorized project, it is choosing a means by which to carry an enumerated power into effect.

															Second, the assertion that the States “surrendered any immunity from the federal government’s eminent-domain power in the plan of the convention” implies that eminent domain occupies a unique place in the constitutional structure.  Brief for Petitioner 23; accord, ante, at 14–16 (opinion of the Court).  But as just explained, a taking is a garden-variety exercise of an enumerated power like the Commerce Clause.  The Federal Government can exercise that power to take state land.  Oklahoma ex rel. Phillips v. Guy F. Atkinson Co., 
313 U.S. 508, 534 (1941).  And it can take that land via a condemnation action against a nonconsenting State not because eminent domain is special, but for the same reason it can sue a nonconsenting State in any other proceeding: “States have no sovereign immunity as against the Federal Government.”  West Virginia v. United States,

479 U.S. 305, 311 (1987) (citing United States v. Texas,

143 U.S. 621, 646 (1892)).  The special structural principles the Court conjures are illusory.

															So while the Court casts the inquiry as one about the scope of the States’ consent to the Federal Government’s “eminent-domain power,” that is the wrong way to think about the problem.  Here is the right way: Title

15 U. S. C. §717f(h) is an exercise of Congress’ power to regulate interstate commerce.  Congress cannot authorize private suits against a nonconsenting State pursuant to its Commerce Clause power.  Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S., at 72–73.  Nor does the Commerce Clause itself abrogate state sovereign immunity.  Cf. Allen, 589 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 8–9). Therefore, Congress cannot enable a private party like Penn- East to institute a condemnation action against a nonconsenting State like New Jersey.

															B

															The Court’s proposed escape route from this analysis—that the States relinquished their immunity from private condemnation suits in the plan of the Convention—is a dead end.  There is no “Eminent Domain Clause” on which the Court can rely.  Cf. Katz, 546 U. S., at 372–373 (holding that “those who crafted the Bankruptcy Clause” understood it to “operat[e] free and clear of the State’s claim of sovereign immunity”); Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer,

427 U.S. 445, 456  (1976) (holding that state sovereign immunity is necessarily limited by the enforcement provision of the
 
Fourteenth Amendment); South Dakota v. North Carolina,

192 U.S. 286, 314–318 (1904) (holding that Article 3, §2, gives the Supreme Court jurisdiction over a suit brought by one State against another); Texas, 143 U. S., at 642–646 (holding that Article 3, §2, gives the Supreme Court jurisdiction over a suit brought by the United States against a State).  Nor, as discussed, does the constitutional structure single out eminent domain for special treatment.  And while the Court claims the support of history, the evidence it cites is beside the point.

															The Court relies exclusively on the fact that Congress and the States, like the Colonies before them, have consistently authorized private parties to exercise the right of eminent domain to obtain property for mills, roads, and other public improvements.  See ante, at 9–11.  As the Court notes, Congress did so in the early days of the Republic only within “areas subject to exclusive federal jurisdiction,” though we later held that Congress could take property within state boundaries as well.  Ante, at 8–9.  This history is long and undisputed, and the Court presents it as conclusive evidence on PennEast’s side of the ledger.

															But the question before us is not whether Congress can authorize a private party to exercise the right of eminent domain against another private party, which is the proposition this history supports.  Nor is it whether Congress can authorize a private entity to take state property through means other than a condemnation suit.  The question is whether Congress can authorize a private party to bring a condemnation suit against a State.  And on that score, the Court comes up dry.

															The Court cannot muster even a single decision involving a private condemnation suit against a State, let alone any decision holding that the States lack immunity from such suits.  It relies exclusively on suits brought by States, suits brought by the United States, suits brought by private parties against other private parties, and suits brought by Indian tribes against private parties—none of which implicate state sovereign immunity.  See Kohl,

91 U.S. 367 (suit by United States); Guy F. Atkinson Co.,

313 U.S. 508 (suit by Oklahoma); Luxton v. North River Bridge Co.,

153 U.S. 525 (1894) (suit by private company to condemn private land); Stockton v. Baltimore & N. Y. R. Co., 32 F. 9 (CC NJ 1887) (suit by New Jersey); Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas R. Co.,

135 U.S. 641 (1890) (suit by Cherokee Nation against private company).

															Moreover, no one disputes that for 75 years after the founding, it was unsettled whether the Federal Government could even exercise eminent domain over private land within a State.  See Baude, Rethinking the Federal Eminent Domain Power, 122 Yale L. J. 1738, 1741, 1761–1777 (2013).  It was then 77 years more before we held that “[t]he fact that land is owned by a state is no barrier to its condemnation by the United States.”  Guy F. Atkinson Co., 313 U. S., at 534.  Given the length of time that these questions lingered, it strains credulity to say that history unequivocally establishes that States surrendered their immunity to private condemnation suits in the plan of the Convention.

															The Court downplays “the historical absence of private condemnation suits against state-owned lands,” noting that we did not rely on historical examples when we held that States consented in the plan of the Convention to suits by the Federal Government.  Ante, at 18–19 (citing Texas,

143 U. S. 621).  But in that decision, the supremacy of the Federal Government in our constitutional structure, along with textual cues, were sufficient to resolve the question.  Id., at 644–646.  Here, there is no basis for drawing an analogous structural inference, much less any remotely relevant text.  Supra, at 3–4.  History is the only place left to look for evidence that States consented to private condemnation suits in the plan of the Convention.  See, e.g., Katz, 546 U. S., at 362–363.  None exists—which means that the Court falls far short of mustering the “compelling evidence” necessary to show that a surrender of immunity to private condemnation suits was “inherent in the constitutional compact.”  Blatchford, 501 U. S., at 781.

															C

															The Court rejects this conclusion on the ground that state immunity from private condemnation suits would render the federal eminent domain power incomplete.  Ante, at 16–18 (stating that the power must be “ ‘complete in itself ’ ”).  The Court is wrong.

															To begin with, sovereign immunity would not permit States to obstruct construction of a federally approved pipeline.  No one disputes that in our constitutional structure, the Federal Government is supreme within its realm.  Art. VI, cl. 2.  At the same time—and this is the proposition that the Court resists—the Constitution limits the means by which the Federal Government can impose its will on the States.  Thus, while the
 
Tenth Amendment imposes no bar on the federal taking of state land, Guy F. Atkinson Co., 313 U. S., at 534, the
 
Eleventh Amendment imposes a bar on Congress’ ability to accomplish that taking through a private condemnation suit like this one.  That does not leave the Federal Government without options.  In fact, there is an obvious option that the Court barely acknowledges: The United States can take state land itself.  See ibid.

															A direct taking, however, is not enough for the Court, which—continuing to cast eminent domain as a stand-alone power—claims that allowing a State to assert an immunity defense in a private condemnation suit would “diminish the eminent domain authority of the federal sovereign.”  Ante, at 17.  If private parties cannot sue nonconsenting States, the Court says, delegatees would have no practical means of taking state property.[3]  And that is inconsistent with the Constitution, the Court tells us, because “[a]n eminent domain power that is incapable of being exercised amounts to no eminent domain power at all.”  Ante, at 18.  The flaw in this logic is glaring: The eminent domain power belongs to the United States, not to PennEast, and the United States is free to take New Jersey’s property through a condemnation suit or some other mechanism.

															State sovereign immunity indisputably makes it harder for Congress to accomplish its goals, as we have recognized many times before.  For example, Congress cannot abrogate state sovereign immunity to pursue the “proper Article I concerns” of “provid[ing] a uniform remedy for patent infringement and [placing] States on the same footing as private parties under that regime.”  Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd. v. College Savings Bank,

527 U.S. 627, 647–648 (1999).  Nor can it authorize private suits against States to “ ‘secur[e]’ a copyright holder’s ‘exclusive Right[s]’ as against a Stat[e],” Allen, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6) (quoting U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 8), or to ensure that States negotiate in good faith with Indian tribes, Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S., at 47, 72.  The same is true here: Sovereign immunity limits how Congress can obtain state property for pipelines.  This inhibition of Congress is not, however, a reason to set sovereign immunity aside.  It is instead a deliberately chosen feature of the constitutional design.

															III

															While the Court cloaks its analysis in the “plan of the Convention,” it seems to be animated by pragmatic concerns.  Congress judged private condemnation suits to be the most efficient way to construct natural gas pipelines, and to this point, States have cooperated.  Ante, at 3–4.  But now that New Jersey has chosen to object, it threatens to “thwart” federal policy.  Ante, at 10.  If the Court sided with New Jersey and Congress did not amend §717f(h), New Jersey (not to mention other States) could hold up construction of the pipeline indefinitely.  And even if §717f(h) were amended, a new statutory procedure might be less efficient than permitting PennEast to sue New Jersey directly.  Holding New Jersey immune from suit thus would reward its intransigence.

															Our precedents provide a ready response: The defense of sovereign immunity always has the potential of making it easier for States to get away with bad behavior—like copyright infringement, Allen, 589 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 2–4), patent infringement, Florida Prepaid, 527 U. S., at 630–634, and even reneging on debts, Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 430 (1793).  Indeed, concern about States using sovereign immunity to thwart federal policy is precisely why many Justices of this Court have dissented from our sovereign immunity jurisprudence.  See, e.g.,  Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S., at 77 (Stevens, J., dissenting) (objecting that the majority’s holding “prevents Congress from providing a federal forum for a broad range of actions against States, from those sounding in copyright and patent law, to those concerning bankruptcy, environmental law, and the regulation of our vast national economy”).  The availability of the defense does not depend on whether a court approves of the State’s conduct.

															The Court also brushes past New Jersey’s interests by failing to acknowledge that §717f(h) actions implicate state sovereignty.  PennEast has haled a State into court to defend itself in an adversary proceeding about a forced sale of property.  See 6A J. Sackman, Nichols on Eminent Domain §27.01[1][b] (3d ed. 2019) (“A condemnation is an adversary proceeding that the federal government initiates against the owners to take their property”).  As required by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 71.1(c), PennEast named New Jersey in this suit.  Even if the State could, as PennEast contends, refuse to appear and still retain its right to compensation, it is difficult to see how the initiation of a judicial proceeding that seeks to wrest title to state property from the State does not subject the State to coercive legal process.  Cf. United States v. Alabama,

313 U.S. 274, 282 (1941).

															Moreover, obtaining title is not necessarily a cut-and-dry matter.  New Jersey points out that there is sometimes litigation—as there was here—about whether the property sought falls within the FERC certificate.  Brief for State Respondents 24–25.  Compensation, too, can be a matter of dispute.  The State and the plaintiff are unlikely to see eye to eye on what the property is worth, and there is often a battle of the experts about the property’s value.  See 4 Sackman, Nichols on Eminent Domain §13.01[1][b][i] (“Establishing the value of real estate requires a valuation expert”); ibid. (“ ‘Valuation of property is not an exact process and courts are often greeted with conflicting appraisal testimony’ ”).  If PennEast gets title at a bargain, New Jersey will suffer a loss even if no money leaves its treasury.

															IV

															It would be very odd for the government’s right to take property for public use to exist only if private parties can exercise it.  That, however, is the Court’s position.  And by adopting it, the Court is able to make a §717f(h) action sound like something other than what it is: a private suit against a State that Congress has authorized pursuant to its commerce power.  This Court has long held that States did not surrender their sovereign immunity to suits authorized pursuant to Congress’ power to regulate interstate commerce, and no historical evidence suggests a different result obtains for condemnation suits brought by private parties against nonconsenting States.  Because state sovereign immunity bars these suits, I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 Apart from Article I, we have recognized that Congress can subject nonconsenting States to private suits pursuant to its power to enforce the
 
Fourteenth Amendment.  Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer,

427 U.S. 445, 456 (1976). 

2
 The Takings Clause of the
 
Fifth Amendment is a limitation on Government power, not a grant of it.  It provides: “[N]or shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.”  It thus presumes that the power exists by virtue of other constitutional provisions. 

3
 The Court claims that allowing States to assert sovereign immunity “would leave delegatees with only one constitutionally permissible way of exercising the federal eminent domain power: Take property now and require States to sue for compensation later.”  Ante, at 17.  But there are myriad mechanisms for obtaining land through eminent domain, and this case gives us no occasion to consider which, if any, are available to delegatees.  See, e.g., 6A J. Sackman, Nichols on Eminent Domain §27.02[2] (3d ed. 2019) (“[I]n 1931, there were approximately 269 different methods of judicial procedure in different classes of condemnation cases, and there were 56 methods of non-judicial or administrative procedure in condemnation cases”). 


