::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-035
::decision_cite:: 19-1261
::decision_name::  Taylor v. Riojas
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: 
::opinion_type:: 
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															TRENT MICHAEL TAYLOR v. ROBERT RIOJAS, et al.

															on petition for writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															No. 19–1261. Decided November 2, 2020

															

															Per Curiam.

															Petitioner Trent Taylor is an inmate in the custody of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.  Taylor alleges that, for six full days in September 2013, correctional officers confined him in a pair of shockingly unsanitary cells.[1]  The first cell was covered, nearly floor to ceiling, in “ ‘massive amounts’ of feces”: all over the floor, the ceiling, the window, the walls, and even “ ‘packed inside the water faucet.’ ”  Taylor v. Stevens, 946 F.3d 211, 218 (CA5 2019).  Fearing that his food and water would be contaminated, Taylor did not eat or drink for nearly four days.  Correctional officers then moved Taylor to a second, frigidly cold cell, which was equipped with only a clogged drain in the floor to dispose of bodily wastes.  Taylor held his bladder for over 24 hours, but he eventually (and involuntarily) relieved himself, causing the drain to overflow and raw sewage to spill across the floor.  Because the cell lacked a bunk, and because Taylor was confined without clothing, he was left to sleep naked in sewage.

															The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit properly held that such conditions of confinement violate the
 
Eighth Amendment’s prohibition on cruel and unusual punishment.  But, based on its assessment that “[t]he law wasn’t clearly established” that “prisoners couldn’t be housed in cells teeming with human waste” “for only six days,” the court concluded that the prison officials responsible for Taylor’s confinement did not have “ ‘fair warning’ that their specific acts were unconstitutional.”   946 F. 3d, at 222 (quoting Hope v. Pelzer,

536 U.S. 730, 741 (2002)).

															The Fifth Circuit erred in granting the officers qualified immunity on this basis.  “Qualified immunity shields an officer from suit when she makes a decision that, even if constitutionally deficient, reasonably misapprehends the law governing the circumstances she confronted.”  Brosseau v. Haugen,

543 U.S. 194, 198 (2004) (per curiam).  But no reasonable correctional officer could have concluded that, under the extreme circumstances of this case, it was constitutionally permissible to house Taylor in such deplorably unsanitary conditions for such an extended period of time.  See Hope, 536 U. S., at 741 (explaining that “ ‘a general constitutional rule already identified in the decisional law may apply with obvious clarity to the specific conduct in question’ ” (quoting United States v. Lanier,

520 U.S. 259, 271 (1997))); 536 U. S., at 745 (holding that “[t]he obvious cruelty inherent” in putting inmates in certain wantonly “degrading and dangerous” situations provides officers “with some notice that their alleged conduct violate[s]” the
 
Eighth Amendment).  The Fifth Circuit identified no evidence that the conditions of Taylor’s confinement were compelled by necessity or exigency.  Nor does the summary-judgment record reveal any reason to suspect that the conditions of Taylor’s confinement could not have been mitigated, either in degree or duration.  And although an officer-by-officer analysis will be necessary on remand, the record suggests that at least some officers involved in Taylor’s ordeal were deliberately indifferent to the conditions of his cells.  See, e.g., 946 F. 3d, at 218 (one officer, upon placing Taylor in the first feces-covered cell, remarked to another that Taylor was “ ‘going to have a long weekend’ ”); ibid., and n. 9 (another officer, upon placing Taylor in the second cell, told Taylor he hoped Taylor would “ ‘f***ing freeze’ ”).

															Confronted with the particularly egregious facts of this case, any reasonable officer should have realized that Taylor’s conditions of confinement offended the Constitution.[2]  We therefore grant Taylor’s petition for a writ of certiorari, vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

															It is so ordered.

															justice barrett took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

															justice thomas dissents.
Notes
1
 The Fifth Circuit accepted Taylor’s “verified pleadings [as] competent evidence at summary judgment.”  Taylor v. Stevens, 946 F.3d 211, 221 (2019).  As is appropriate at the summary-judgment stage, facts that are subject to genuine dispute are viewed in the light most favorable to Taylor’s claim. 

2
 In holding otherwise, the Fifth Circuit noted “ambiguity in the caselaw” regarding whether “a time period so short [as six days] violated the Constitution.”  946 F. 3d, at 222.  But the case that troubled the Fifth Circuit is too dissimilar, in terms of both conditions and duration of confinement, to create any doubt about the obviousness of Taylor’s right.  See Davis v. Scott, 157 F.3d 1003, 1004 (CA5 1998) (no
 
Eighth Amendment violation where inmate was detained for three days in dirty cell and provided cleaning supplies). 


