::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-070
::decision_cite:: 19-161
::decision_name::  Department of Homeland Security v. Thuraissigiam
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–161

															_________________

															DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, et al., PETITIONERS v. VIJAYAKUMAR  THURAISSIGIAM

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 25, 2020]

															

															Justice Thomas, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion, which correctly concludes that respondent’s Suspension Clause argument fails because he does not seek a writ of habeas corpus.  I write separately to address the original meaning of the Suspension Clause, which guarantees that “[t]he Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it.”  Art. I, §9, cl. 2.  The Founders appear to have understood “[t]he Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus” to guarantee freedom from discretionary detention, and a “suspen[sion]” of that privilege likely meant a statute granting the executive the power to detain without bail or trial based on mere suspicion of a crime or dangerousness.  Thus, the expedited removal procedure in the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996,

110Stat.
3009–546, is likely not a suspension.[1]

															I

															The writ of habeas corpus began as a prerogative writ in the Court of King’s Bench in the 16th century.  J. Baker, An Introduction to English Legal History 157 (5th ed. 2019).  Over time, however, it came to be understood both as a right to be free from arbitrary detention and as a procedural writ.

															By the end of the 16th century, the English connected the common-law writ of habeas corpus to liberty.  Specifically, it was associated with the guarantee in Magna Carta that “[n]o free person (Nullus liber homo) shall be taken or imprisoned, or disseised or outlawed or exiled, or in any way destroyed . . . except by the lawful judgment of his peers or by the law of the land.”  Id., at 157, n. 76, 506.  Perhaps most prominently, Edward Coke wrote in his Institutes that “if a man be taken, or committed to prison contra legem terrae, against the Law of the land,” then “[h]e may have an habeas corpus.”  The Second Part of the Institutes of the Laws of England 55 (6th ed. 1681).  For Coke, and for the many English (and later Americans) who read his work, “the writ was treated as an aspect of the Charter’s guaranty.”  D. Meador, Habeas Corpus and Magna Carta: Dualism of Power and Liberty 22 (1966).

															This association between habeas corpus and freedom from discretionary detention deepened after 1679 with the Habeas Corpus Act, also known as An Act for the better secureing the Liberty of the Subject and for Prevention of Imprisonments beyond the Seas.  The statute sought to address “great Delayes” in “criminall or supposed criminall Matters.”  31 Car. 2, ch. 2.  It required an officer served with a writ of habeas corpus to produce the prisoner within three days in “any such criminall or supposed criminall Matters.”  Ibid.  It also guaranteed bail to prisoners in cases of felony or high treason if they were not tried within one term of court.  Ibid.  To protect these rights, Parliament created a special statutory remedy: All writs under the Habeas Corpus Act were marked as issuing pursuant to the statute.  Ibid.; P. Halliday, Habeas Corpus: From England to Empire 320 (2010).

															Parliament passed the Habeas Corpus Act to curb the power of King Charles II, but it nonetheless came to be seen as a protection for liberty, not just an assertion of the powers of Parliament over the Crown.  Henry Care, in the 1774 edition of his widely read treatise English Liberties, commented that “before this statute [the common-law writ of habeas corpus] was rendered far less useful than it ought to be, partly by the Judges pretending a power to grant or deny the said writ at their pleasure, in many cases; and especially by the ill practices of Sheriffs and Goalers, by putting the prisoner to the charge and trouble of . . . a second and third writ, before they would obey the first.”  1 English Liberties, or the Free-born Subject’s Inheritance 195.  The Habeas Corpus Act, he concluded, “provides thus for our liberty.”  Id., at 198.  William Blackstone put it even more sweepingly, writing that the Habeas Corpus Act “is frequently considered as another magna carta.”  3 Commentaries on the Laws of England 135 (1770).

															II

															The Founders inherited this understanding of habeas corpus.  And they enshrined it in the Suspension Clause, which they understood to protect a substantive right.

															The language of the Suspension Clause evinces this understanding.  The Clause itself does not authorize courts to issue writs of habeas corpus.  INS v. St. Cyr,

533 U.S. 289, 337 (2001) (Scalia, J., dissenting); Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch 75, 94 (1807).  Nor does it refer simply to the writ of habeas corpus.  Rather, it protects the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus.  The word “privilege” was “used interchangeably with the words ‘rights,’ ‘liberties,’ and ‘freedoms,’ and had been since the time of Blackstone.”  McDonald v. Chicago,

561 U.S. 742, 813 (2010) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).  By using this term, the Framers appear to have had a substantive right in mind.

															Ratification debates reflect this understanding as well.  Future Supreme Court Justice James Iredell said in the North Carolina convention that, “[b]y the privileges of the habeas corpus, no man can be confined without inquiry; and if it should appear that he has been committed contrary to law, he must be discharged.”  4 Debates in the Several State Conventions 171 (J. Elliot ed. 1891).  Signer of the Constitution James McHenry told the Maryland House of Delegates that “[p]ublic safety may require a suspension of the Ha[beas] Corpus in cases of necessity: when those cases do not exist, the virtuous Citizen will ever be protected in his opposition to power.”  11 Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution 80, 84 (J. Kaminski et al. eds. 2015) (Documentary History).

															This understanding is echoed in statements that the Constitution protects the Habeas Corpus Act, the writ of habeas corpus, or simply “the habeas corpus,” all referring to a substantive right.  Alexander Hamilton wrote in The Federalist No. 83 that “the habeas corpus act” was “provided for in the most ample manner in the plan of the convention.”  The Federalist No. 83, p. 499 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961).  Again in No. 84, he wrote that the Constitution “establish[ed] the writ of habeas corpus.”  Id., No. 84, at 511.  In the Pennsylvania ratifying convention, Jasper Yeates said that the Suspension Clause “direct[ed] that the privilege of the habeas corpus act shall not be suspended except in times of immediate danger.”  2 Documentary History 434–435 (M. Jensen ed. 1976).  In Virginia, Governor Edmund Randolph—a signer and future Attorney General—argued that “the habeas corpus is at least on as secure and good a footing as it is in England” because “[t]hat privilege is secured here by the Constitution.”  9 id., at 1099 (J. Kaminski & G. Saladino eds. 1990).  Luther Martin of Maryland wrote that “the general government is to have a power of suspending the habeas corpus act, in cases of rebellion or invasion.”  Genuine Information VIII, reprinted in 15 id., at 434 (J. Kaminski & G. Saladino eds. 1984).  In Massachusetts, Theophilius Parsons “made a Loud Speech on the Habeas Corpus act that it will not be in the power of Gov[ern]ment to suspend the act only in time of war.”  7 id., at 1813 (J. Kaminski & G. Saladino eds. 2001).  Other speakers and writers made similar references.  See A. Tyler, Habeas Corpus in Wartime 132–133 (2017) (collecting examples).  In sum, it seems that the founding generation viewed the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus as a freedom from arbitrary detention.[2]

															III

															The remaining question is what it means for “[t]he Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus” to “be suspended.”  U. S. Const., Art. I, §9, cl. 2.  At the founding, suspension was a well-known term that meant “a [t]emporal [s]top of a [m]an’s [r]ight.”  N. Bailey, An Universal Etymological English Dictionary (22d ed. 1770); see St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 337–338 (Scalia, J., dissenting).  In the context of habeas corpus, it appears to have specifically meant a grant of authority to the executive to detain without bail or trial based on suspicion of a crime or dangerousness.

															The English understood the term this way.  Blackstone called it “the happiness of [the English] constitution” that “the parliament only, or legislative power, . . . can authorize the crown, by suspending the habeas corpus act for a short and limited time, to imprison suspected persons without giving any reason for so doing.”  1 Commentaries on the Laws of England, at 136.  Bills known as suspensions granted broad power to detain based on suspicion of a crime.  For example, in 1777, Lord Germaine introduced a bill “ ‘to empower his Majesty to secure and detain Persons charged with, or suspected of, the Crime of High Treason committed in North America, or on the High Seas, or the Crime of Piracy.’ ”  19 W. Cobbett, The Parliamentary History of England 4 (1814).  The bill allowed certain prisoners to be detained “ ‘without bail or mainprize’ ”[3] and prohibited any “ ‘judge or justice of peace’ ” from “ ‘bail[ing] or try[ing] any such person or persons, . . . any law, statute, or usage, to the contrary in any wise notwithstanding.’ ”  Id., at 5.  The text contained no mention of the Habeas Corpus Act, but it nevertheless was referred to as a “suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act.”  Id., at 9–10.  As one historian has written, suspensions “were officially acts ‘empowering his majesty to apprehend and detain such persons as he shall find cause to suspect’ ” and to do so “ ‘without bail or mainprise.’ ”  Halliday, Habeas Corpus, at 248.

															Americans shared a similar understanding, as evidenced by the suspensions that States passed during the Revolutionary War.  “By their common terms,” these suspensions “bestowed authority on state executives to arrest and detain persons preventively based on suspicion of supporting the Crown.”  Tyler, Habeas Corpus in Wartime, at 111.  In 1777, Massachusetts authorized the detention of “any person whom the council shall deem the safety of the Commonwealth requires should be restrained of his personal liberty, or whose enlargement within this state is dangerous thereto” “without bail or mainpri[s][z]e.”  1776–1777 Mass. Acts ch. 45, §§1, 3, p. 641.  Virginia similarly allowed the Governor and council to detain anyone “whom they may have just cause to suspect of disaffection to the independence of the United States or of attachment to their enemies.”  An act for giving certain powers to the governour and council, and for punishing those who shall oppose the execution of laws, reprinted in 10 W. Hening’s Statutes at Large 413–414 (1822).  And New York created a board with power “to apprehend and confine or cause to be apprehended or confined . . . all persons whose going at large shall in the judgment of the said commissioners or any three of them appear dangerous to the safety of this State.”  An Act appointing commissioners for detecting and defeating conspiracies and declaring their powers (Feb. 5, 1778), 1778 N. Y. Laws ch. 3, pp. 8–9; see also An Act for constituting a Council of Safety (Oct. 11, 1777), 1777 N. J. Laws ch. 40, §4, p. 85; An Act to Empower the Supreme Executive Council of this Commonwealth to Provide for the Security Thereof in Special Cases Where No Provision Is Already Made by Law (Sept. 6, 1777), ch. 762, §2, 9 Statutes at Large of Pennsylvania 140 (J. Mitchell & H. Flanders eds. 1903); An Act to punish certain crimes and misdemeanors, and to prevent the growth of toryism, 1777 Md. Laws ch. 20, §7.[4]

															Massachusetts continued using this formula for suspensions under its 1780 Constitution.  These suspensions are especially probative because that Constitution contained language similar to the Federal Suspension Clause: “The privilege and benefit of the writ of habeas corpus shall be enjoyed in this Commonwealth in the most free, easy, cheap, expeditious and ample manner; and shall not be suspended by the Legislature, except upon the most urgent and pressing occasions, and for a limited time not exceeding twelve months.”  Pt. 2, ch. VI, Art. VII.  In response to Shays’ Rebellion, which gained notoriety across the United States, Massachusetts passed “An Act for Suspending the Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus.”  It provided that

															“the Governor, with the advice and consent of the Council, be and he hereby is authorised and empowered . . . to command, and cause to be apprehended, and committed in any Goal, or other safe place, within the Commonwealth, any person or persons whatsoever, whom the Governor and Council, shall deem the safety of the Commonwealth requires should be restrained of their personal liberty, or whose enlargement is dangerous thereto; any Law, Usage or Custom to the contrary notwithstanding.”  1786–1787 Mass. Acts ch. 41, p. 102.

															The Act also provided that “any Person who shall be apprehended and imprisoned, as aforesaid, shall be continued in imprisonment, without Bail or Mainprize, until he shall be discharged therefrom by order of the Governor, or of the General Court.”  Id., at 103; see also An Act to Suspend the Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus for Six Months (June 27, 1782), 1782–1783 Mass. Acts ch. 2, pp. 6–7.  Thus, in a jurisdiction with an analog to the Suspension Clause, a suspension was a grant of power to detain without bail or trial based on suspicion of a crime or dangerousness.

															Although the ratification debates are not especially illuminating on the meaning of a suspension, they provide further support for this understanding.  Luther Martin wrote that the Government, upon “suspending the habeas corpus act may seize upon the persons of those advocates of freedom, who have had virtue and resolution enough to excite the opposition, and may imprison them during its pleasure.”  Genuine Information VIII, reprinted in 15 Documentary History 434.  Another essayist, writing in a Boston newspaper, explained that suspension would allow “the President, or President and Senate, as Congress shall think proper to empower, to take up and confine for any cause, or for any suspicion, or for no cause, perhaps any person, he or they shall think proper.  5 id., at 712 (J. Kaminski & G. Saladino eds. 1998).

															In sum, a suspension was not necessarily an express limitation on the availability of the writ of habeas corpus.  Rather, it appears to have been a grant of power to detain based on suspicion of a crime or dangerousness without bail or trial. 

															IV

															Under this interpretation,

8 U. S. C. §1252 likely does not suspend the writ of habeas corpus.  To be placed in expedited removal, an immigration officer must “determin[e]” that an alien is “inadmissible.”  §1225(b)(1)(A)(i).  That determination is based in part on the alien’s lack of valid entry documentation and failure to satisfy a 2-year continuous physical presence requirement, not on mere suspicion or dangerousness.  §§1225(b)(1)(A)(i), (iii)(II); §1182(a)(7).  An alien has the opportunity to avoid expedited removal by demonstrating a “credible fear of persecution.”  §§1225(b)(1)(B)(iii), (v).  If the alien is unsuccessful, he may seek “[j]udicial review . . . in habeas corpus proceedings” of “whether [he] is an alien”; “whether [he] was ordered removed” under expedited removal; and “whether [he] can prove by a preponderance of the evidence that [he] is an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence, has been admitted as a refugee . . . , or has been granted asylum” and “such status [has not] been terminated.”  §1252(e)(2).

															This statute bears little resemblance to a suspension as that term was understood at the founding.  It does not allow the executive to detain based on mere suspicion of a crime or dangerousness.  Rather, it requires a finding that the detainee lacks valid documentation and is not eligible for asylum.  It even expressly permits habeas relief for a detainee who does not meet certain criteria for expedited removal.

															Some may wish that the Suspension Clause were broader.  Perhaps for this reason, our precedents have departed from the original understanding of the Suspension Clause.  See, e.g., Boumediene v. Bush,

553 U.S. 723, 826–850 (2008) (Scalia, J., dissenting); St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 336–341 (Scalia, J., dissenting).  But this understanding does contain an important guarantee of individual liberty by limiting the circumstances in which Congress may give the executive power to detain without bail or trial based on suspicion of a crime or dangerousness.  In this case, that guarantee has not been violated.
Notes
1
 I express no view on the question whether respondent is even entitled to the privilege of the writ as an unadmitted alien. 

2
 None of this is to say that the writ of habeas corpus involved a wide-ranging, ever-changing inquiry.  As the Court today reaffirms, “the scope of habeas has been tightly regulated by statute, from the Judiciary Act of 1789 to the present day.”  Ante, at 21, n. 20.  A writ of habeas corpus was “in the nature of a writ of error, to examine the legality of the commitment.”  Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 193, 202 (1830) (Marshall, C. J.).  When an executive detained someone without trial, it allowed a court to “examine into [the] validity” of “the reason for” commitment.  3 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 133 (1770).  In cases of detention pursuant to the judgment of a court, “a prisoner seeking a writ of habeas corpus could challenge only the jurisdiction of the court that had rendered the judgment under which he was in custody.”  Wright v. West,

505 U.S. 277, 285 (1992) (opinion of Thomas, J.).  In both contexts, the writ “played only a procedural role: It issued as of right when a prisoner showed probable cause to believe he was being held illegally . . . and obligated the warden to file a ‘return’ identifying the grounds of imprisonment.”  Jennings v. Stephens,

574 U.S. 271, 285 (2015) (Thomas, J., dissenting).  When the writ of habeas corpus was granted, it “decided nothing except that there was a case calling for an answer by the gaoler.”  Goddard, A Note on Habeas Corpus, 65 L. Q. Rev. 30, 34 (1949).  “After reviewing the reason so returned, the court could release, bail, or remand the prisoner as appropriate.”  J. Baker, An Introduction to English Legal History 157 (5th ed. 2019). 

3
 Mainprise or mainprize is a “writ ordering the sheriff to take . . . security . . . for the prisoner’s appearance and release the prisoner.”  Black’s Law Dictionary 1142 (11th ed. 2019). 

4
 It does not appear that it was necessary to expressly mention the availability of the writ in a suspending Act.  Some States made express reference to the writ of habeas corpus, see, e.g., ch. 762, §2, 9 Statutes at Large of Pennsylvania 140, but many did not. 


