::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-070
::decision_cite:: 19-161
::decision_name::  Department of Homeland Security v. Thuraissigiam
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–161

															_________________

															DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, et al., PETITIONERS v. VIJAYAKUMAR  THURAISSIGIAM

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 25, 2020]

															

															Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Ginsburg joins, concurring in the judgment.

															The statute at issue here,

8 U. S. C. §1252(e)(2), sets forth strict limits on what claims a noncitizen subject to expedited removal may present in federal habeas corpus proceedings.  I agree that enforcing those limits in this particular case does not violate the Suspension Clause’s constitutional command: “The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it.”  U. S. Const., Art. I, §9, cl. 2.  But we need not, and should not, go further.

															We need not go further because the Government asked us to decide, and we agreed to review, an issue limited to the case before us.  The question presented is “whether, as applied to respondent, Section 1252(e)(2) is unconstitutional under the Suspension Clause.”  Pet. for Cert. i (emphasis added).  All we must decide is whether, under the Suspension Clause, the statute at issue “is unconstitutional as applied to this party, in the circumstances of this case.”  Chicago v. Morales,

527 U.S. 41, 74 (1999) (Scalia, J., dissenting).

															Nor should we go further.  Addressing more broadly whether the Suspension Clause protects people challenging removal decisions may raise a host of difficult questions in the immigration context.  What review might the Suspension Clause assure, say, a person apprehended years after she crossed our borders clandestinely and started a life in this country?  Under current law, noncitizens who have lived in the United States for up to two years may be placed in expedited-removal proceedings, see §1225(b)(1)(A)(iii), but Congress might decide to raise that 2-year cap (or remove it altogether).  Does the Suspension Clause let Congress close the courthouse doors to a long-term permanent resident facing removal?  In INS v. St. Cyr,

533 U.S. 289 (2001), we avoided just that “serious and difficult constitutional issue.”  Id., at 305.

															Could Congress, for that matter, deny habeas review to someone ordered removed despite claiming to be a natural-born U. S. citizen?  The petitioner in Chin Yow v. United States,

208 U.S. 8 (1908), and others have faced that predicament.  See also §1252(e)(2)(A) (permitting, at present, habeas review of citizenship claims).  What about foreclosing habeas review of a claim that rogue immigration officials forged the record of a credible-fear interview that, in truth, never happened?  Or that such officials denied a refugee asylum based on the dead-wrong legal interpretation that Judaism does not qualify as a “religion” under governing law?  Cf. Tod v. Waldman,

266 U.S. 113, 119–120 (1924) (observing that immigration officials ignored a Jewish family’s claim that they were “refugees” fleeing “religious persecution”).

															The answers to these and other “difficult questions about the scope of [Suspension Clause] protections” lurk behind the scenes here.  Lozman v. Riviera Beach, 585 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 10).  I would therefore avoid making statements about the Suspension Clause that sweep beyond the principles needed to decide this case—let alone come to conclusions about the Due Process Clause, a distinct constitutional provision that is not directly at issue here.  Compare ibid. (concluding that, with narrow grounds for decision available, resolving broader, more difficult questions “must await a different case”) with ante, at 12–16 (suggesting that removal is simply not the sort of “restraint” for which the Suspension Clause guarantees a means of “securing release”), and ante, at 34–36 (addressing a separate due process question).

															As for the resolution of the dispute before us, Congress, in my view, had the constitutional power to foreclose habeas review of the claims that respondent has pressed in this case.  Habeas corpus, as we have said, is an “adaptable remedy,” and the “precise application and scope” of the review it guarantees may change “depending upon the circumstances.”  Boumediene v. Bush,

553 U.S. 723, 779 (2008); see also id., at 813 (Roberts, C. J., dissenting).  So where the Suspension Clause applies, the “habeas court’s role” may prove more “extensive,” or less so, depending on the context at issue.  Id., at 780 (majority opinion).  Here, even assuming that the Suspension Clause guarantees respondent some form of habeas review—which is to say, even accepting for argument’s sake that the relief respondent seeks is “release,” contra, ante, at 22—the scope of that constitutionally required review would not extend to his claims.  Two features of this case persuade me.

															First, respondent’s status suggests that the constitutional floor set by the Suspension Clause here cannot be high.  A Border Patrol agent apprehended respondent just 25 yards inside the border.  Respondent was placed in expedited removal proceedings shortly thereafter, where he received the same consideration for relief from removal that Congress has afforded persons arriving at the border.  Respondent has never lived in, or been lawfully admitted to, the United States.

															To my mind, those are among the “circumstances” that inform the “scope” of any habeas review that the Suspension Clause might guarantee respondent.  Boumediene, 553 U. S., at 779.  He is thus in a materially different position for Suspension Clause purposes than the noncitizens in, for example, Rowoldt v. Perfetto,

355 U.S. 115 (1957), United States ex rel. Accardi v. Shaughnessy,

347 U.S. 260 (1954), Bridges v. Wixon,

326 U.S. 135 (1945), and Hansen v. Haff,

291 U.S. 559 (1934).  They had all lived in this country for years.  The scope of whatever habeas review the Suspension Clause assures respondent need not be as extensive as it might for someone in that position.

															Second, our precedents demonstrate that respondent’s claims are of the kind that Congress may, consistent with the Suspension Clause, make unreviewable in habeas proceedings.  Even accepting respondent’s argument that our “finality era” cases map out a constitutional minimum, see ante, at 23–24, his claims, on the facts presented here, differ significantly from those that we reviewed throughout this period.

															To begin, respondent concedes that Congress may eliminate habeas review of factual questions in cases like this one.  See, e.g., Nishimura Ekiu v. United States,

142 U.S. 651, 660 (1892).  He has thus disclaimed the “right to challenge the historical facts” found by immigration officials during his credible-fear process.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 44.  But even though respondent has framed his two primary claims as asserting legal error, substance belies that label.  Both claims are, at their core, challenges to factual findings.

															During his credible-fear interview, respondent said that he is an ethnic Tamil from Sri Lanka and that, one day, a group of men abducted him in a van and brutally beat him.  App. 67, 70–74.  The asylum officer believed respondent’s account, id., at 83, which respondent confirmed was his sole basis for seeking relief, id., at 77, 79.  The critical question, then, concerned the nature of the attack: Who attacked respondent and why?  In written findings, the asylum officer concluded that it was “unknown who these individuals were or why they wanted to harm [respondent].”  Id., at 87.  Based on those findings, the asylum officer determined that respondent had not established a credible fear of persecution or torture within the meaning of governing law.  See id., at 87, 89.

															Respondent, to be sure, casts the brunt of his challenge to this adverse credible-fear determination as two claims of legal error.  But it is the factual findings underlying that determination that respondent, armed with strong new factual evidence, now disputes.  See id., at 23–27; Brief for Professors of Sri Lankan Politics as Amici Curiae 7–11; see also ante, at 36, n. 28 (noting that immigration officials may revisit their findings in light of this additional evidence).

															Respondent first asserts that the asylum officer failed to apply—or at least misapplied—the applicable legal standard under §1225(b)(1)(B)(v), which required only a “significant possibility” that respondent could establish entitlement to relief from removal.  See App. 30–32; Brief for Respondent 6.  Respondent also contends that the asylum officer “demonstrated a fatal lack of knowledge” about conditions in Sri Lanka, id., at 7, in violation of provisions requiring that asylum officers consider “other facts as are known to the officer,” §1225(b)(1)(B)(v), and have “had professional training in country conditions,” §1225(b)(1)(E)(i).  See App. 24–26, 28–29, 31.

															At the heart of both purportedly legal contentions, however, lies a disagreement with immigration officials’ findings about the two brute facts underlying their credible-fear determination—again, the identity of respondent’s attackers and their motive for attacking him.  Other than his own testimony describing the attack, respondent has pointed to nothing in the administrative record to support either of these claims.

															As to his legal-standard claim, respondent does not cite anything affirmatively indicating that immigration officials misidentified or misunderstood the proper legal standard under §1225(b)(1)(B)(v).  Rather, he argues that their credible-fear determination was so egregiously wrong that it simply must have rested on such a legal error.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 46–50.  But that contention rests on a refusal to accept the facts as found by the immigration officials.  Specifically, it rejects their findings that no evidence suggested respondent was attacked by men affiliated with the Sri Lankan Government and motivated by respondent’s Tamil ethnicity or (as he now alleges) history of political activism.  See App.  87; see also, e.g., id., at 23–26.  Respondent’s quarrel, at bottom, is not with whether settled historical facts satisfy a legal standard, see Guerrero-Lasprilla v. Barr, 589 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 4), but with what the historical facts are.

															Respondent’s country-conditions claim is much the same.  Respondent does not cite anything in the administrative record affirmatively indicating that, contrary to §§1225(b)(1)(B)(v) and (E)(i), immigration officials, for example, consciously disregarded facts presented or otherwise known to them, or that the asylum officer never received relevant professional training.  Instead, respondent offers a similar refrain: The credible-fear determination was so egregiously wrong that immigration officials simply must not have known about conditions in Sri Lanka.  See Brief for Respondent 7.  So this claim, too, boils down to a factual argument that immigration officials should have known who respondents’ attackers were and why they attacked him.

															Mindful that the “Constitution deals with substance, not shadows,” Salazar v. Buono,

559 U.S. 700, 723 (2010) (Roberts, C. J., concurring) (internal quotation marks omitted), I accordingly view both claims as factual in nature, notwithstanding respondent’s contrary characterization.  For that reason, Congress may foreclose habeas review of these claims without running afoul of the Suspension Clause.  See, e.g., Nishimura Ekiu, 142 U. S., at 660.

															The other two claims of error that respondent has pressed assert that immigration officials violated procedures required by law.  He first contends that, by not asking additional questions during the credible-fear interview, the asylum officer failed to elicit “all relevant and useful information,” in violation of 8 CFR §208.30(d) (2020).  See App. 27, 31.  Respondent further alleges that translation problems arose during the interview, in violation of the asylum officer’s duty under §§208.30(d)(1) and (2) to ensure that respondent was “[a]ble to participate effectively” and “ha[d] an understanding of the credible fear determination process.”  See App. 27–28, 31.  Though both claims may reasonably be understood as procedural, they may constitutionally be treated as unreviewable—at least under the border-entry circumstances present in this case.  See supra, at 3–4.

															Respondent’s procedural claims are unlike those that we reviewed in habeas proceedings during the finality era.  Throughout that period, the procedural claims that we addressed asserted errors that fundamentally undermined the efficacy of process prescribed by law.  See Chin Yow, 208 U. S., at 11 (observing that a noncitizen could obtain habeas relief on procedural grounds if he was denied “an opportunity to prove his right to enter the country, as the statute meant that he should have”).  Many of our finality era cases thus dealt with situations in which immigration officials failed entirely to take obligatory procedural steps.

															In Waldman, for example, we faulted immigration officials for making “no finding[s]” at all on potentially dispositive issues, including whether the noncitizens were fleeing religious persecution and therefore exempt from a literacy requirement.  266 U. S., at 120.  And in United States ex rel. Johnson v. Shaughnessy,

336 U.S. 806 (1949), we re- versed for procedural error because the noncitizen was denied outright “the independent [medical] review and reexamination” required by then-governing law.  Id., at 812; see also Accardi, 347 U. S., at 267 (faulting the Attorney General for short-circuiting altogether legally prescribed adjudication procedures by “dictating” an immigration decision himself ).

															Respondent’s procedural claims are different.  He does not allege that immigration officials, say, denied him a credible-fear interview or skipped a layer of intra-agency review altogether.  Nor do his allegations suggest that the asylum officer’s questioning or the interpreter’s translation constructively deprived him of the opportunity to establish a credible fear; indeed, he has consistently maintained that the information that was elicited more than sufficed.  See, e.g., Tr. of Oral Arg. 46–48; cf. Chin Yow, 208 U. S., at 13 (observing that “the denial of a hearing cannot be established” merely “by proving that the decision was wrong”).  Respondent thus contends that the credible-fear process was procedurally defective for reasons that are more technical.  He alleges that additional questions would have yielded further “relevant and useful” information and that “communication issues affected the interview” in some way.  App. 27.

															Respondent’s procedural claims consequently concern not the outright denial (or constructive denial) of a process, but the precise way in which the relevant procedures were administered.  They raise fine-grained questions of degree—i.e., whether the asylum officer made sufficiently thorough efforts to elicit all “relevant and useful information” and whether he took sufficiently thorough precautions to ensure that respondent was “[a]ble to participate effectively” in the interview.  8 CFR §208.30(d).

															Reviewing claims hinging on procedural details of this kind would go beyond the traditionally “limited role” that habeas has played in immigration cases similar to this one—even during the finality era.  St. Cyr, 533 U. S., at 312.  To interpret the Suspension Clause as insisting upon habeas review of these claims would require, by constitutional command, that the habeas court make indeterminate and highly record-intensive judgments on matters of degree.  Respondent has not cited, and I have not found, any case of ours suggesting that the Suspension Clause demands parsing procedural compliance at so granular a level.  Neither, apparently, has the Solicitor General.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 14–15, 23–24; Brief for Petitioners 38.

															Together with respondent’s status, see supra, at 3–4, these characteristics convince me that Congress had the constitutional power to foreclose habeas review of respondent’s procedural claims.  Recasting those claims as an allegation that respondent’s “due process rights were violated by” immigration officials makes no material difference.  App. 32.  That alternative description changes none of the features that, in my view, put respondent’s procedural claims beyond the scope of any minimum habeas review that the Suspension Clause might assure him under the circumstances.

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, I would hold that, as applied to respondent, §1252(e)(2)’s limits on habeas review do not violate the Suspension Clause.  I would go no further.
													
