::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-056
::decision_cite:: 19-251
::decision_name::  Americans for Prosperity Foundation v. Bonta
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–251 and 19–255

															_________________

															AMERICANS FOR PROSPERITY FOUNDATION, PETITIONER

															19–251v.

															ROB BONTA, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF CALIFORNIA

															

															THOMAS MORE LAW CENTER, PETITIONER

															19–255v.

															ROB BONTA, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF CALIFORNIA

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[July 1, 2021]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Kagan join, dissenting. 

															Although this Court is protective of
 
First Amendment rights, it typically requires that plaintiffs demonstrate an actual
 
First Amendment burden before demanding that a law be narrowly tailored to the government’s interests, never mind striking the law down in its entirety.  Not so today.  Today, the Court holds that reporting and disclosure requirements must be narrowly tailored even if a plaintiff demonstrates no burden at all.  The same scrutiny the Court applied when NAACP members in the Jim Crow South did not want to disclose their membership for fear of reprisals and violence now applies equally in the case of donors only too happy to publicize their names across the websites and walls of the organizations they support.  

															California oversees nearly a quarter of this Nation’s charitable assets.  As part of that oversight, it investigates and prosecutes charitable fraud, relying in part on a registry where it collects and keeps charitable organizations’ tax forms.  The majority holds that a California regulation requiring charitable organizations to disclose tax forms containing the names and contributions of their top donors unconstitutionally burdens the right to associate even if the forms are not publicly disclosed.   

															In so holding, the Court discards its decades-long requirement that, to establish a cognizable burden on their associational rights, plaintiffs must plead and prove that disclosure will likely expose them to objective harms, such as threats, harassment, or reprisals.  It also departs from the traditional, nuanced approach to
 
First Amendment challenges, whereby the degree of means-end tailoring required is commensurate to the actual burdens on associational rights.  Finally, it recklessly holds a state regulation facially invalid despite petitioners’ failure to show that a substantial proportion of those affected would prefer anonymity, much less that they are objectively burdened by the loss of it.

															Today’s analysis marks reporting and disclosure requirements with a bull’s-eye.  Regulated entities who wish to avoid their obligations can do so by vaguely waving toward
 
First Amendment “privacy concerns.”  Ante, at 17.  It does not matter if not a single individual risks experiencing a single reprisal from disclosure, or if the vast majority of those affected would happily comply.  That is all irrelevant to the Court’s determination that California’s Schedule B requirement is facially unconstitutional.  Neither precedent nor common sense supports such a result.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															Charitable organizations that wish to solicit tax-deductible contributions from California residents must maintain membership in a registry managed by the California attorney general.  Cal. Govt. Code Ann. §§12584, 12585 (West 2018).  As a condition of membership, the attorney general requires charities to submit a complete copy of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Form 990, including Schedule B, on which 501(c)(3) organizations report the names and contributions of their major donors.  See Cal. Code Regs., tit. 11, §301 (2021); 26 CFR §§1.6033–2(a)(2)(ii), (iii) (2020).  California regulations expressly require that Schedule Bs remain confidential, Cal. Code Regs., tit. 11, §310(b), and the attorney general’s office has implemented enhanced protocols to ensure confidentiality.[1]  California relies on Schedule Bs to investigate fraud and other malfeasance.

															After the attorney general’s office stepped up its efforts to enforce California’s Schedule B reporting requirement, petitioners Americans for Prosperity Foundation (Foundation) and Thomas More Law Center (Law Center) sought an injunction against the requirement.  They alleged that the requirement “unconstitutionally burden[ed] their
 
First Amendment right to free association by deterring individuals from financially supporting them.”  Americans for Prosperity Foundation v. Becerra, 903 F.3d 1000, 1006 (CA9 2018).  They pointed to evidence that their supporters experienced threats, reprisals, and harassment when their identities and associations became publicly known in other contexts.  Importantly, however, the Foundation and Law Center failed to show that such consequences would result from the confidential submission of their top donors’ identities to California’s attorney general’s office in light of the security mechanisms the office has now implemented.

															II

															Because the freedom to associate needs “breathing space to survive,” NAACP v. Button,

371 U.S. 415, 433 (1963), this Court has recognized that associational rights must be “protected not only against heavy-handed frontal attack, but also from being stifled by more subtle governmental interference,” Bates v. Little Rock,

361 U.S. 516, 523 (1960).  Publicizing individuals’ association with particular groups might expose members to harassment, threats, and reprisals by opponents of those organizations.  Individuals may choose to disassociate themselves from a group altogether rather than face such backlash.

															Acknowledging that risk, this Court has observed that “privacy in group association may in many circumstances be indispensable to preservation of freedom of association, particularly where a group espouses dissident beliefs.”  NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson,

357 U.S. 449, 462 (1958).  That observation places special emphasis on the risks actually resulting from disclosure.  Privacy “may” be indispensable to the preservation of freedom of association, but it need not be.  It depends on whether publicity will lead to reprisal.  For example, privacy can be particularly important to “dissident” groups because the risk of retaliation against their supporters may be greater.  For groups that promote mainstream goals and ideas, on the other hand, privacy may not be all that important.  Not only might their supporters feel agnostic about disclosing their association, they might actively seek to do so.

															Given the indeterminacy of how disclosure requirements will impact associational rights, this Court requires plaintiffs to demonstrate that a requirement is likely to expose their supporters to concrete repercussions in order to establish an actual burden.  It then applies a level of means-end tailoring proportional to that burden.  The Court abandons that approach here, instead holding that narrow tailoring applies to disclosure requirements across the board, even if there is no evidence that they burden anyone at all.

															A

															Before today, to demonstrate that a reporting or disclosure requirement would chill association, litigants had to show “a reasonable probability that the compelled disclosure of . . . contributors’ names will subject them to threats, harassment, or reprisals from either Government officials or private parties.”  Buckley v. Valeo,

424 U.S. 1, 74 (1976) (per curiam).  Proof could include “specific evidence of past or present harassment of members due to their associational ties, or of harassment directed against the organization itself,” ibid., as well as evidence that “fear of community hostility and economic reprisals that would follow public disclosure . . . had discouraged new members from joining” an organization or caused “former members to withdraw,” Bates, 361 U. S., at 524.  Although the Court has never imposed an “unduly strict requiremen[t] of proof,” Buckley, 424 U. S., at 74, it has consistently required at least some record evidence demonstrating a risk of such objective harms.  See Bates, 361 U. S., at 523–524; Patterson, 357 U. S., at 462–463.

															Indeed, the Court has expressly held that parties do not have standing to bring claims where they assert nothing more than that government action will cause a “subjective ‘chill.’ ”  Laird v. Tatum,

408 U.S. 1, 13–14 (1972).  It does not matter if an individual perceives a government regulation “as inappropriate,” or believes “it is inherently dangerous for the [government] to be concerned with” a particular activity, or has “generalized yet speculative apprehensiveness that the [government] may at some future date misuse the information in some way that would cause direct harm” to her.  Id., at 13. She must still allege a risk of objective harm.  See id., at 14; see also Clapper v. Amnesty Int’l USA,

568 U.S. 398, 417–418 (2013).

															Consistent with this approach, the Court has carefully scrutinized record evidence to determine whether a disclosure requirement actually risks exposing supporters to backlash.  See Patterson, 357 U. S., at 462 (compelled disclosure of NAACP members “entail[ed] the likelihood of a substantial restraint” on association in light of “an uncontroverted showing” that past disclosures exposed members “to economic reprisal, loss of employment, threat of physical coercion, and other manifestations of public hostility”); Bates, 361 U. S., at 523–524 (compelled disclosure of NAACP membership “would work a significant interference with the freedom of association” based on “uncontroverted evidence” that past identification “had been followed by harassment and threats of bodily harm”); Shelton v. Tucker,

364 U.S. 479, 486 (1960) (disclosure of teachers’ organizational affiliations impaired association because record evidence substantiated a “fear of public disclosure” and a “constant and heavy” pressure on teachers “to avoid any ties which might displease those who control [their] professional destin[ies]”); Buckley, 424 U. S., at 69–70 (“any serious infringement” on associational rights caused by the compelled disclosure of contributors was “highly speculative” on the record before the Court).  

															Hence, in Doe v. Reed,

561 U.S. 186 (2010), the Court rejected a facial challenge to the public disclosure of referenda signatories on the ground that the “typical referendum” concerned revenue, budget, and tax policies unlikely to incite threats or harassment.  Id., at 200–201.  Any judge who has witnessed local fights over raising taxes, funding schools, building sewer systems, or rerouting roads can surely envisage signatories with reason to keep their support for such measures private.  But in Reed, such subjective reasons did not suffice to establish a cognizable burden on associational rights.

															Today, the Court abandons the requirement that plain-tiffs demonstrate that they are chilled, much less that they are reasonably chilled.  Instead, it presumes (contrary to the evidence, precedent, and common sense) that all disclosure requirements impose associational burdens.  For example, the Court explains that there is a risk of chill in this suit because the government requires disclosure of the identity of any donor “with reason to remain anonymous.”  Ante, at 17.  The Court does not qualify that statement, nor does it require record evidence of such reasons.  If the Court did, it would not be able to strike California’s Schedule B requirement down in all its applications, because the only evidence in the record of donors with any reason to remain anonymous is that of petitioners’.[2]

															At best, then, a subjective preference for privacy, which previously did not confer standing, now subjects disclosure requirements to close scrutiny.  Of course, all disclosure requires some loss of anonymity, and courts can always imagine that someone might, for some reason, prefer to keep their donations undisclosed.  If such speculation is enough (and apparently it is), then all disclosure requirements ipso facto impose cognizable
 
First Amendment burdens.

															Indeed, the Court makes obvious its presumption that all disclosure requirements are burdensome by beginning its analysis of “burden” with an evaluation of means-end fit instead.  “[A] reasonable assessment of the burdens imposed by disclosure,” the Court explains, “should begin with an understanding of the extent to which the burdens are unnecessary, and that requires narrow tailoring.”  Ante, at 11; see also ante, at 17–18 (excusing plaintiffs from showing any burden if a disclosure law is not narrowly tailored).  

															I disagree.  A reasonable assessment of the burdens imposed by disclosure should begin by determining whether those burdens even exist.  If a disclosure requirement imposes no burdens at all, then of course there are no “unnecessary” burdens.  Likewise, if a disclosure requirement imposes no burden for the Court to remedy, there is no need for it to be closely scrutinized.  By forgoing the requirement that plaintiffs adduce evidence of tangible burdens, such as increased vulnerability to harassment or reprisals, the Court gives itself license to substitute its own policy preferences for those of politically accountable actors.

															B 

															All this would be less troubling if the Court still required means-end tailoring commensurate to the actual burden imposed.  It does not.  Instead, it adopts a new rule that every reporting or disclosure requirement be narrowly tailored.  See ante, at 9 (“While exacting scrutiny does not require that disclosure regimes be the least restrictive means of achieving their ends, it does require that they be narrowly tailored to the government’s asserted interest”).

															1

															Disclosure requirements burden associational rights only indirectly and only in certain contexts.  For that reason, this Court has never necessarily demanded such requirements to be narrowly tailored. Rather, it has reserved such automatic tailoring for state action that “directly and immediately affects associational rights.”  Boy Scouts of America v. Dale,

530 U.S. 640, 659 (2000); see also Buckley, 424 U. S., at 22, 25 (requiring a “closely drawn” fit for political contribution limits, which directly “limit one important means of associating with a candidate or committee”).  When it comes to reporting and disclosure requirements, the Court has instead employed a more flexible approach, which it has named “exacting scrutiny.”  See ante, at 7–8 (opinion of Roberts, C. J.).

															Exacting scrutiny requires two things: first, there must be “ ‘a “substantial relation” between the disclosure requirement and a “sufficiently important” government interest,’ ” and second, “ ‘the strength of the governmental interest must reflect the seriousness of the actual burden on
 
First Amendment rights.’ ”  Reed, 561 U. S., at 196.  Exacting scrutiny thus incorporates a degree of flexibility into the means-end analysis.  The more serious the burden on
 
First Amendment rights, the more compelling the government’s interest must be, and the tighter must be the fit between that interest and the government’s means of pursuing it.  By contrast, a less substantial interest and looser fit will suffice where the burden on
 
First Amendment rights is weaker (or nonexistent).  In other words, to decide how closely tailored a disclosure requirement must be, courts must ask an antecedent question: How much does the disclosure requirement actually burden the freedom to associate?

															This approach reflects the longstanding principle that the requisite level of scrutiny should be commensurate to the burden a government action actually imposes on
 
First Amendment rights.  See, e.g., Burdick v. Takushi,

504 U.S. 428, 434 (1992) (“[T]he rigorousness of our inquiry . . . depends upon the extent to which a challenged regulation burdens”
 
First Amendment rights); Board of Trustees of State Univ. of N. Y. v. Fox,

492 U.S. 469, 477 (1989) (“[C]ommercial speech enjoys a limited measure of protection, commensurate with its subordinate position in the scale of
 
First Amendment values, and is [thus] subject to modes of regulation that might be impermissible in the realm of noncommercial expression” (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted)); see also Fulton v. Philadelphia, 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (Barrett, J., concurring) (slip op., at 2) (noting the “nuanced” approach the Court generally takes in the “resolution of conflicts between generally applicable laws and . . .
 
First Amendment rights”).

															Compare, for instance, the Court’s approaches in Shelton v. Tucker and Doe v. Reed.  At issue in Shelton was an Arkansas statute passed in 1958 that compelled all public school teachers, as a condition of employment, to submit annually a list of every organization to which they belonged or regularly contributed.  364 U. S., at 480–481.  The Court held that the disclosure requirement “comprehensive[ly] interfere[d] with associational freedom,” because record evidence demonstrated a significant risk that the information would be publicly disclosed, and such disclosure could lead to public pressure on school boards “to discharge teachers who belong to unpopular or minority organizations.”  Id., at 486–487, 490.  Arkansas’s statute did not require that the information remain confidential; each school board was “free to deal with the information as it wishe[d].”  Id., at 486.  Indeed, “a witness who was a member of the Capital Citizens[’] Council” (an organization dedicated to resisting school integration)[3] “testified that his group intended to gain access” to the teachers’ affidavits “with a view to eliminating from the school system persons who supported organizations unpopular with the group.”  Ibid., n. 7.  Moreover, a starkly asymmetric power dynamic existed between teachers, who were “hired on a year-to-year basis,” and the hiring authorities to whom their membership lists were submitted.  Id., at 482.  The Arkansas Legislature had made no secret of its desire for teachers’ disclosures to be used for hiring and firing decisions.  One year after enacting the disclosure requirement at issue in Shelton, the legislature enacted another provision that made it outright unlawful for state governmental bodies to employ members of the NAACP.  Shelton v. McKinley, 174 F. Supp. 351, 353–354 (ED Ark. 1959).  It is thus unsurprising that the Court found that Arkansas teachers would feel a “constant and heavy” pressure “to avoid any ties which might displease those who control [their] professional destin[ies].”  Id., at 486; see also Keyishian v. Board of Regents of Univ. of State of N. Y.,

385 U.S. 589, 604 (1967) (“When one must guess what conduct or utterance may lose him his position, one necessarily will steer far wider of the [impermissible] zone” (internal quotation marks omitted)).  Because Arkansas’s purpose (ensuring teachers’ fitness) was “pursued by means that broadly stifle fundamental personal liberties,” the Court demanded that Arkansas “more narrowly achiev[e]” its interest.  Shelton, 364 U. S., at 488.

															Now consider this Court’s approach in Reed.  Reed involved a facial challenge to a Washington law permitting the public disclosure of referendum petitions that included signatories’ names and addresses.  561 U. S., at 190–191.  The Court found that Washington had a number of other mechanisms in place to pursue its stated interest in preventing fraudulent referendum signatures.  For instance, the secretary of state was charged with verifying and canvassing the names on referendum petitions, advocates and opponents of a measure could observe the canvassing process, and citizens could challenge the secretary’s actions in court.  Id., at 198.  Publicly disclosing referendum signatories was thus a mere backstop, giving citizens the opportunity to catch the secretary’s mistakes.  Had Washington been required to achieve its interests narrowly, as in Shelton, it is unlikely the disclosure requirement would have survived.[4]

															In crucial contrast to Shelton, however, the Reed Court found “scant evidence” that disclosure exposed signatories of typical referendums to “threats, harassment, or reprisals from either Government officials or private parties.”  561 U. S., at 200–201 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Given the “modest burdens” imposed by the requirement, id., at 201, the Court required a correspondingly modest level of tailoring.  Under that standard, the disclosure requirement passed muster, and the Court refused to facially strike it down.

															The public disclosure regimes in both Shelton and Reed served important government goals.  Yet the Court’s assessment of each differed considerably because the
 
First Amendment burdens differed.  This flexible approach is necessary because not all reporting and disclosure regimes burden associational rights in the same way.

															2

															The Court now departs from this nuanced approach in favor of a “one size fits all” test.  Regardless of whether there is any risk of public disclosure, and no matter if the burdens on associational rights are slight, heavy, or nonexistent, disclosure regimes must always be narrowly tailored.

															The Court searches in vain to find a foothold for this new approach in precedent.  The Court first seizes on Shelton’s statement that a governmental interest “ ‘cannot be pursued by means that broadly stifle fundamental personal liberties when the end can be more narrowly achieved.’ ”  Ante, at 9 (quoting 364 U. S., at 488).  The Court could not have 

															 

															cherry-picked a less helpful quote.  By its own terms, Shelton held that an end must be “more narrowly achieved” only if the means “broadly stifle”
 
First Amendment liberties, that is, only if the means impose a severe burden on associational rights.[5]  

															In any event, the Court need not read a few isolated sentences from that opinion to divine Shelton’s meaning.  As described, see Part II–B–1, supra, the Court in Shelton concluded that a reasonable “fear of public disclosure” and an asymmetric power dynamic with hiring authorities would result in a “constant and heavy” pressure on teachers “to avoid any ties which might displease those who control [their] professional destin[ies].”  364 U. S., at 486.  Recall that a witness had testified that his white supremacist organization would seek to obtain the identities of teachers working on civil rights issues in order to eradicate them from the school system, and that just a year after Arkansas enacted its disclosure law, it enacted a law prohibiting the hiring of members of the NAACP as public school teachers.  The problem was not the breadth of the inquiry; it was the significant risk that teachers would face serious repercussions for their disclosed associations.[6] 

															The Court next looks to McCutcheon v. Federal Election Comm’n,

572 U.S. 185 (2014), which addressed political contribution limits, not disclosure regimes.  It is no surprise that the Court subjected the former to narrow tailoring, as Buckley had already held that contribution limits directly “impinge on protected associational freedoms.”  424 U. S., at 22; see also McCutcheon, 572 U. S., at 204 (explaining that aggregate limits on contributions “diminish an individual’s right of political association” by “limit[ing] the number of candidates he supports” or the amount of money he gives).  Buckley itself distinguished the
 
First Amendment burdens of disclosure requirements and contribution limits.  See 424 U. S., at 64 (noting that, unlike contribution limits, “disclosure requirements impose no ceiling on campaign-related activities” and concluding only that compelled disclosure “can” infringe associational rights).  Apparently, those distinctions no longer matter.

															Neither Shelton nor McCutcheon, then, supports the idea that all disclosure requirements must be narrowly tailored.  McCutcheon arose in the context of a direct limit on associational freedoms, while the law in Shelton “broadly stifle[d]” associational rights.  Ignoring these distinctions, the Court decides that it will indiscriminately require narrow tailoring for every single disclosure regime.  The Court thus trades precision for blunt force, creating a significant risk that it will topple disclosure regimes that should be constitutional, and that, as in Reed, promote important governmental interests.

															III

															A

															Under a
 
First Amendment analysis that is faithful to this Court’s precedents, California’s Schedule B requirement is constitutional.  Begin with the burden it imposes on associational rights.  Petitioners have unquestionably provided evidence that their donors face a reasonable probability of threats, harassment, and reprisals if their affiliations are made public.  See ante, at 4.  California’s Schedule B regulation, however, is a nonpublic reporting requirement, and California has implemented security measures to ensure that Schedule B information remains confidential.[7]  

															Nor have petitioners shown that their donors, or any organization’s donors, will face threats, harassment, or reprisals if their names remain in the hands of a few California state officials.  The Court notes that, under Shelton, disclosure requirements can chill association even absent public disclosure.  See ante, at 16.  In Shelton, however, there was a serious concern that hiring authorities would punish teachers for their organizational affiliations.  See 364 U. S., at 486.  By contrast, the Court in no way suggests that California officials will use Schedule B information to retaliate against any organization’s donors.  If California’s reporting requirement imposes any burden at all, it is at most a very slight one.

															B

															1

															Given the modesty of the
 
First Amendment burden, California may justify its Schedule B requirement with a correspondingly modest showing that the means achieve its ends.  See Reed, 561 U. S., at 201.  California easily meets this standard.

															California collects Schedule Bs to facilitate supervision of charities that operate in the State.  As the Court acknowledges, this is undoubtedly a significant governmental interest.  See ante, at 12–13.  In the United States, responsibility for overseeing charities has historically been vested in States’ attorneys general, who are tasked with prosecuting charitable fraud, self-dealing, and misappropriation of charitable funds.  Effective policing is critical to maintaining public confidence in, and continued giving to, charitable organizations.  California’s interest in exercising such oversight is especially compelling given the size of its charitable sector.  Nearly a quarter of the country’s charitable assets are held by charities registered in California.  Brief for Scholars of the Law of Non-Profit Organizations as Amici Curiae 10; see ibid. (“As of June 2018, charities registered in California reported $295 billion in annual income and net assets of $851 billion”).

															The Schedule B reporting requirement is properly tailored to further California’s efforts to police charitable fraud.  See Reed, 561 U. S., at 198–199 (noting that disclosure “helps” combat fraud, even if it is not the least restrictive method of doing so).  The IRS Schedule B form requires organizations to disclose the names and addresses of their major donors, the total amount of their contributions, and whether the donation was cash or in-kind.  See 26 CFR §§1.6033–2(a)(2)(ii), (iii).  If the gift is in-kind, Schedule B requires a description of the property and its fair market value.

															Schedule B and other parts of Form 990 help attorneys in the Charitable Trusts Section of the California Department of Justice (Section) uncover whether an officer or director of a charity is engaged in self-dealing, or whether a charity has diverted donors’ charitable contributions for improper use.  Appellant-Cross-Appellee’s Excerpts of Record in No. 16–55727 etc. (CA9), pp. 575, 716–718 (16–55727 ER).  It helps them determine whether a donor is using the charity as a pass-through entity, including as a source of improper loans that the donor repays as a contribution.  Id., at 577–578, 716–718.  It helps them identify red flags, such as discrepancies in reporting contributions across different schedules.  Id., at 578–579, 716–718.  And it helps them determine whether a charity has inflated the value of a donor’s in-kind contribution in order, for instance, to overstate how efficiently the charity expends resources.  Id., at 721–727.

															As a former head of the Section described it, Schedule B combined with the rest of Form 990 provides “[a] roadmap to the rest of the investigation that follows.”  Id., at 717.  Indeed, having Schedule Bs on hand is important to attorneys’ decisions regarding whether to advance an investigation at all.  One of the first things an auditor or lawyer does upon receiving a complaint is review the entire Form 990, including Schedule B.  Id., at 969–970, 996–997, 1062–1063.  One Section leader testified that she used Schedule Bs “[a]ll the time” for this purpose.  App. in No. 19–251, p. 413.

															In sum, the evidence shows that California’s confidential reporting requirement imposes trivial burdens on petitioners’ associational rights and plays a meaningful role in Section attorneys’ ability to identify and prosecute charities engaged in malfeasance.  That is more than enough to satisfy the
 
First Amendment here.

															2

															Much of the Court’s tailoring analysis is categorically inappropriate under the correct standard of review.  In any event, the Court greatly understates the importance to California of collecting information on charitable organizations’ top donors.

															The Court claims that the collection of Schedule Bs does not form an “integral” part of California’s fraud detection efforts and has never done “ ‘anything’ ” to advance investigative efforts.[8]  Ante, at 13.  The record reveals otherwise.  As discussed, Section leaders report that they use Schedule Bs “[a]ll the time” and rely on them to create roadmaps for their investigations.  App. in No. 19–251, at 413; see also 16–55727 ER, at 717.  The Court further complains that California does not rely on Schedule Bs to “initiate” investigations.  Ante, at 15, 19.  But disclosure assists California in its decisions whether to advance or end an investigation.  Perhaps the Court’s main concern is that California has not identified enough instances in which Schedule B played a unique role in prosecuting charitable malfeasance.  But “[l]ike a jigsaw puzzle,” investigations often advance “only by placing in the proper place the many pieces of evidence that, taken singly, would show comparatively little.”  Andresen v. Maryland,

427 U.S. 463, 481, n. 10 (1976).

															The Court next insists that California can rely on alternative mechanisms, such as audit letters or subpoenas, to obtain Schedule B information.  But the Section receives as many as 100 charity-related complaints a month.  App. in No. 19–251, at 307.  It is not feasible for the Section, which has limited staff and resources, to conduct that many audits.  See Appellant-Cross-Appellee’s Excerpts of Record in No. 16–56855 etc. (CA9), pp. 512–513.  The subpoena process is also time consuming: Letters must go through multiple layers of review and waiting for a response causes further delays during which a charity can continue its malfeasance.  App. in No. 19–251, at 412.

															Implicitly acknowledging that audits and subpoenas are more cumbersome and time consuming, the Court trivializes the State’s interest in what it calls “ease of administration.”  Ante, at 15.  Yet in various contexts, the Court has recognized that an interest in “efficiency” is critical to the effective operation of public agencies.[9]  See, e.g., Bailey v. United States,

568 U.S. 186, 200 (2013) (“[T]he law enforcement interests in conducting a safe and efficient search” justify detaining “occupants on the premises during the execution of a search warrant”); Civil Service Comm’n v. Letter Carriers, 
413 U.S. 548, 564 (1973) (seeking a constitutional balance between the interests of a government employee in commenting on matters of public concern and the interest of the government in the efficiency of the services it performs).

															In addition to being burdensome, audit letters and subpoenas can also significantly undercut the Section’s work by alerting an organization to the existence of an investigation, giving it a chance to hide assets or tamper with evidence.  The Court dismisses this concern as unsubstantiated. Yet one Section head reported that this had “happened several times,” and another testified to her personal experience with organizations “fabricat[ing]” and “destroy[ing] records” after being tipped off to an investigation.  16–55727 ER, at 590, 998–999.[10]  A State surely has a compelling interest in ensuring that the subject of an investigation does not destroy evidence or hide funds before investigators have an opportunity to find them.  Cf. Kentucky v. King,

563 U.S. 452, 460 (2011) (“[T]he need to prevent the imminent destruction of evidence has long been recognized as a sufficient justification for a warrantless search” (internal quotation marks omitted)).  The Court ignores those interests here.

															IV

															In a final coup de grâce, the Court concludes that California’s reporting requirement is unconstitutional not just as applied to petitioners, but on its very face.  “In the
 
First Amendment context,” such broad relief requires proof that the requirement is unconstitutional in “ ‘a substantial number of . . . applications . . . , judged in relation to the statute’s plainly legitimate sweep.’ ”  United States v. Stevens,

559 U.S. 460, 473 (2010).  “Facial challenges are disfavored for several reasons,” prime among them because they “often rest on speculation.”  Washington State Grange v. Washing-
ton State Republican Party,

552 U.S. 442, 450 (2008).  Speculation is all the Court has.  The Court points to not a single piece of record evidence showing that California’s reporting requirement will chill “a substantial number” of top donors from giving to their charities of choice.[11]  Yet it strikes the requirement down in every application.

															The average donor is probably at most agnostic about having their information confidentially reported to California’s attorney general.  A significant number of the charities registered in California engage in uncontroversial pursuits.  They include hospitals and clinics; educational institutions; orchestras, operas, choirs, and theatrical groups; museums and art exhibition spaces; food banks and other organizations providing services to the needy, the elderly, and the disabled; animal shelters; and organizations that help maintain parks and gardens.  Brief for Public Citizen et al. as Amici Curiae 12–13.  It is somewhat hard to fathom that donors to the Anderson Elementary School PTA, the Loomis-Eureka Lakeside Little League, or the Santa Barbara County Horticultural Society (“[c]elebrating plants since 1880”) are less likely to give because their do- 

															 

															nations are confidentially reported to California’s Charitable Trusts Section.[12]

															In fact, research shows that the vast majority of donors prefer to publicize their charitable contributions.  See Drennan, Where Generosity and Pride Abide: Charitable Naming Rights, 80 U. Cin. L. Rev. 45, 50 (2011) (“Research reveals that anonymous largesse from the wealthy has become rare”); Posner, Altruism, Status, and Trust in the Law of Gifts and Gratuitous Promises, 1997 Wis. L. Rev. 567, 574, n. 17 (“[C]haritable gifts are rarely made anonymously”).  One study found that anonymous gifting accounted for less than 1% of all donations to Yale Law School, Harvard Law School, and Carnegie Mellon University.  Glazer & Konrad, A Signaling Explanation for Charity, 86 Am. Econ. Rev. 1019, 1021 (1996).  Symptomatic of this trend is the explosion in charitable naming rights since the mid-1990s.  Drennan, 80 U. Cin. L. Rev., at 50, 55.  As one author has recounted, “every nook and cranny of [public] buildings” is now “tagged by some wealthy, generous and obviously not publicity-shy donor.”  Isherwood, The Graffiti of the Philanthropic Class, N. Y. Times, Dec. 2, 2007.

															Of course, it is always possible that an organization is inherently controversial or for an apparently innocuous organization to explode into controversy.  The answer, however, is to ensure that confidentiality measures are sound or, in the case of public disclosures, to require a procedure for governments to address requests for exemptions in a timely manner.  It is not to hamper all government law enforcement efforts by forbidding confidential disclosures en masse.

															Indeed, this Court has already rejected such an indiscriminate approach in the specific context of disclosure requirements.  Just over a decade ago, in Reed, petitioners demonstrated that their own supporters would face reprisal if their opposition to expanding domestic partnership laws became public.  That evidence did not support a facial challenge to Washington’s public disclosure law, however, because the “typical referendum petitio[n] concern[ed] tax policy, revenue, budget, or other state law issues,” and “there [was] no reason to assume that any burdens imposed by disclosure of typical referendum petitions would be remotely like the burdens plaintiffs fear in this case.”  561 U. S., at 200–201 (internal quotation marks omitted); see also id., at 202–203 (Alito, J., concurring) (“Many referendum petitions concern relatively uncontroversial matters, and plaintiffs have provided no reason to think that disclosure of signatory information in those contexts would significantly chill the willingness of voters to sign.  Plaintiffs’ facial challenge therefore must fail” (citation omitted)).

															So too here.  Many charitable organizations “concern relatively uncontroversial matters” and petitioners “have provided no reason to think that” confidential disclosure of donor information “would significantly chill the willingness of ” most donors to give.  Nor does the Court provide such a reason.  It merely highlights threats that public disclosure would pose to these two petitioners’ supporters.  Those threats provide “scant evidence” of anything beyond “the specific harm” that petitioners’ donors might experience were their Schedule B information publicly disclosed.  Id., at 200–201.  Petitioners’ “facial challenge therefore must fail.”  Id., at 203 (Alito, J., concurring).

															How, then, can their facial challenge succeed?  Only because the Court has decided, in a radical departure from precedent, that there no longer need be any evidence that a disclosure requirement is likely to cause an objective burden on
 
First Amendment rights before it can be struck down.  

															*  *  *

															Today’s decision discards decades of
 
First Amendment jurisprudence recognizing that reporting and disclosure requirements do not directly burden associational rights.  There is no other explanation for the Court’s conclusion that, first, plaintiffs do not need to show they are actually burdened by a disclosure requirement; second, every disclosure requirement demands narrow tailoring; and third, a facial challenge can succeed in the absence of any evidence a state law burdens the associational rights of a substantial proportion of affected individuals.

															That disclosure requirements directly burden associational rights has been the view of Justice Thomas, see id., at 232 (dissenting opinion), but it has never been the view of this Court.  Just 11 years ago, eight Members of the Court, including two Members of the current majority, recognized that disclosure requirements do not directly interfere with
 
First Amendment rights.  See id., at 196 (majority opinion).  In an opinion barely mentioned in today’s decision, the Court in Reed did the opposite of what the Court does today.  First, it demanded objective evidence that disclosure risked exposing supporters to threats and reprisals; second, it required only a loose means-end fit in light of the “modest” burden it found; and third, it rejected a facial challenge given petitioners’ failure to establish that signatories to the “typical” referendum had any reason to fear disclosure.  See id., at 200–201.  In so doing, the Court ensured that it would not “short circuit the democratic process by preventing laws embodying the will of the people from being implemented in a manner consistent with the Constitution.”  Washington State Grange, 552 U. S., at 451.  

															The Court 11 years later apparently has a different view of its role.  It now calls upon the federal courts to serve “as virtually continuing monitors of the wisdom and soundness of [governmental] action.”  Laird, 408 U. S., at 15.  There is no question that petitioners have shown that their donors reasonably fear reprisals if their identities are publicly exposed.  The Court and I, however, disagree about the likelihood of that happening and the role Schedule Bs play in the investigation of charitable malfeasance.  If the Court had simply granted as-applied relief to petitioners based on its reading of the facts, I would be sympathetic, although my own views diverge.  But the Court’s decision is not nearly so narrow or modest.  Instead, the Court jettisons completely the longstanding requirement that plaintiffs demonstrate an actual
 
First Amendment burden before the Court will subject government action to close scrutiny.  It then invalidates a regulation in its entirety, even though it can point to no record evidence demonstrating that the regulation is likely to chill a substantial proportion of donors.  These moves are wholly inconsistent with the Court’s precedents and our Court’s long-held view that disclosure requirements only indirectly burden
 
First Amendment rights.  With respect, I dissent.
Notes
1
 Schedule Bs are kept in a confidential database used only by the Charitable Trusts Section and inaccessible to others in California’s attorney general’s office.  Employees who fail to safeguard confidential information are subject to discipline.  See generally Cal. Govt. Code Ann. §19572 (West 2009).  In light of previous security breaches disclosed in this litigation, see ante, at 5, the attorney general’s office instituted a series of measures to ensure that Schedule B information remains confidential.  The office has adopted a system of text searching forms before they are uploaded onto the Internet to ensure that none contain Schedule B information.  The office now also runs automated scans of publicly accessible government databases to identify and remove any documents containing Schedule B information that may be inadvertently uploaded.  See Americans for Prosperity Foundation v. Becerra, 903 F.3d 1000, 1018 (CA9 2018). 

2
 See Part IV, infra. 

3
 See Hagley, Massive Resistance—The Rhetoric and the Reality, 27 N. M. L. Rev. 167, 203 (1997). 

4
 For instance, the Court did not ask whether the public disclosure of signatories’ names and addresses was “in proportion to the” government’s interest in policing fraud.  Ante, at 15 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Nor did it feel any need to respond to the dissent’s descriptionof ways in which Washington’s interest could be met without public disclosure.  Reed, 561 U. S., at 234–238 (opinion of Thomas, J.).  It was enough that public disclosure could “help” advance electoral integrity.  Id., at 198 (majority opinion).  The Court is clearly wrong to suggest it applied narrow tailoring in Reed.  See ante, at 11. 

5
 The Court claims that “broadly stifle” refers “to the scope of challenged restrictions” rather than “the severity of any demonstrated burden.”  Ante, at 11.  That reading ignores the verb “stifle” and its object, “fundamental personal liberties.”  The Court wishes the sentence said that a government interest “cannot be pursued by [broad] means.”  It does not. The Court also finds meaning in the fact that Shelton criticized Arkansas’ challenged disclosure regime for not being narrowly tailored.  Ante, at 11.  But the Shelton Court had already explained why the failure to narrowly tailor was problematic: because the statute significantly burdened Arkansas teachers’ associational rights.  See Shelton, 364 U. S., at 485–487.  In no way did the Court suggest that narrow tailoring was necessary in the absence of a significant burden on associational rights. 

6
 The statement the Court cites from Baird v. State Bar of Ariz.,

401 U.S. 1, 6 (1971) (plurality opinion), must be read in a similar context.See ante, at 10–11.  Baird involved the Arizona State Bar’s requirement that lawyers seeking admission disclose their organizational affiliations and face denial if they gave the wrong answers.  The “state inquiries” were not just “[b]road and sweeping”; they were designed to identify and “punis[h]” applicants who “[held] certain beliefs” or were “member[s] of a particular political organization.”  401 U. S., at 6.  As the Court explained, “a State may not inquire about a man’s views or associations solely for the purpose of withholding a right or benefit because of what he believes.”  Id., at 7.  The Court nowhere suggests that California will “punish” donors for their beliefs.  That logic thus has no application here. The Court also draws on language from NAACP v. Button,

371 U.S. 415 (1963).  Ante, at 10.  But that case did not involve a disclosure requirement at all.  It involved a law that made it a crime for a person to advise another of the infringement of her legal rights and to refer her to a group of attorneys, like the legal staff of the NAACP, for assistance. 

7
 Although in the Court’s view, the actual risk of reprisals is apparently irrelevant, the Court notes that the District Court concluded that California’s attorney general could not ensure the confidentiality of Schedule B information.  See ante, at 17, n.  But the Ninth Circuit held this finding to be clearly erroneous because the District Court rested its conclusion “solely on the state’s past inability to ensure confidentiality.”  903 F. 3d, at 1019 (internal quotation marks omitted).  The District Court never explained why the current security measures were insufficient to protect donors’ confidentiality.  As the Ninth Circuit observed, “the changes the Attorney General has adopted since those breaches occurred” show that the “risk of inadvertent disclosure of any Schedule B information in the future is small, and the risk of inadvertent disclosure of the plaintiffs’ Schedule B information in particular is smaller still.”  Ibid.; see also n. 1, supra. 

8
 The Court goes so far as to suggest that the State does not rely on Schedule B collection to “prevent and police fraud” and to imply the District Court found the same.  Ante, at 13–14.  Yet the District Court expressly acknowledged that it did “not doubt that the Attorney General does in fact use the Schedule Bs it collects.”  Thomas More Law Center v. Harris, 2016 WL 6781090, *2 (CD Cal., Nov. 16, 2016). 

9
 Of course, an interest in efficiency cannot justify constitutional violations, but it is an important governmental interest when deciding whether a constitutional violation has taken place at all.  See Bailey v. United States,

568 U.S. 186, 199–200 (2013). 

10
 The Court asserts that “the actions of investigators” do not “suggest a risk of tipping off charities” because the Section’s standard practice is to send an audit letter early in an investigation.  Ante, at 14.  Where the Section suspects serious fraud, however, it obtains a temporary restraining order to freeze assets before ever contacting the charity.  See 16–55727 ER, at 591.  The Section’s actions thus demonstrate exactly the fear of tipping off charities that this Court so hastily dismisses. 

11
 The Court highlights the “filings of hundreds of organizations as amici curiae in support of ” petitioners in this suit.  Ante, at 17.  Those briefs, of course, are not record evidence.  Moreover, even if those organizations had each provided evidence that California’s reporting requirement would subject their top donors to harassment and reprisals (they did not), this still would not demonstrate that a substantial proportion of the reporting requirement’s applications are unconstitutional when “ ‘judged in relation to [its] plainly legitimate sweep.’ ”  United States v. Stevens,

559 U.S. 460, 473 (2010).  Some 60,000 charities renew their registrations with California each year, and nearly all must file a Schedule B.  See ante, at 13.  The amici are just a small fraction of the disclosure requirement’s reach. 

12
 See California Dept. of Justice, Office of Atty. Gen., Charity Registration Reports (June 15, 2021), https://oag.ca.gov/charities/reports#crr; Santa Barbara County Horticultural Society (June 15, 2021), https://www.sbchs.org. 


