::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-054
::decision_cite:: 19-267
::decision_name::  Our Lady of Guadalupe School v. Morrissey-Berru
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–267 and 19–348

															_________________

															OUR LADY OF GUADALUPE SCHOOL, PETITIONER

															19–267v.

															AGNES MORRISSEY-BERRU

															

															ST. JAMES SCHOOL, PETITIONER

															19–348v.

															DARRYL BIEL, as personal representative of the ESTATE OF KRISTEN BIEL

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[July 8, 2020]

															

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Gorsuch joins, concurring.

															I agree with the Court that Morrissey-Berru’s and Biel’s positions fall within the “ministerial exception,”[1] because, as Catholic school teachers, they are charged with “carry[ing] out [the religious] mission” of the parish schools.  Ante, at 21.  The Court properly notes that “judges have no warrant to second-guess [the schools’] judgment” of who should hold such a position “or to impose their own credentialing requirements.”  Ante, at 24.  Accordingly, I join the Court’s opinion in full.  I write separately, however, to reiterate my view that the Religion Clauses require civil courts to defer to religious organizations’ good-faith claims that a certain employee’s position is “ministerial.”  See Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and School v. EEOC,

565 U.S. 171, 196 (2012) (Thomas, J., concurring).

															This deference is necessary because, as the Court rightly observes, judges lack the requisite “understanding and appreciation of the role played by every person who performs a particular role in every religious tradition.”  Ante, at 22.  What qualifies as “ministerial” is an inherently theological question, and thus one that cannot be resolved by civil courts through legal analysis.  See Hosanna-Tabor, supra, at 197 (Thomas, J., concurring); see also Memorial and Remonstrance Against Religious Assessments, in Selected Writings of James Madison 21, 24 (R. Ketcham ed. 2006) (the idea that a “Civil Magistrate is a competent Judge of Religious truth” is “an arrogant pretension” that has been “falsified”).  Contrary to the dissent’s claim, judges do not shirk their judicial duty or provide a mere “rubber stamp” when they defer to a religious organization’s sincere beliefs.  Post, at 9 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.).  Rather, they heed the
 
First Amendment, which “commands civil courts to decide [legal] disputes without resolving underlying controversies over religious doctrine.”  Presbyterian Church in U. S. v. Mary Elizabeth Blue Hull Memorial Presbyterian Church,

393 U.S. 440, 449 (1969); see also ante, at 16, n. 10.

															Moreover, because the application of the exception turns on religious beliefs, the duties that a given religious organization will deem “ministerial” are sure to vary.  Although the functions recognized as ministerial by the Lutheran school in Hosanna-Tabor are similar to those considered ministerial by the Catholic schools here, such overlap will not necessarily exist with other religious organizations, particularly those “outside of the ‘mainstream.’ ”  565 U. S., at 197 (Thomas, J., concurring).  To avoid disadvantaging these minority faiths and interfering in “a religious group’s right to shape its own faith and mission,” id., at 188 (majority opinion), courts should defer to a religious organization’s sincere determination that a position is “ministerial.”  Id., at 197 (Thomas, J., concurring).

															The Court’s decision today is a step in the right direction.  The Court properly declines to consider whether an employee shares the religious organization’s beliefs when determining whether that employee’s position falls within the “ministerial exception,” explaining that to “determin[e] whether a person is a ‘co-religionist’ . . . would risk judicial entanglement in religious issues.”  Ante, at 26.  But the same can be said about the broader inquiry whether an employee’s position is “ministerial.”  This Court usually goes to great lengths to avoid governmental “entanglement” with religion, particularly in its Establishment Clause cases.  See, e.g., Lemon v. Kurtzman,

403 U.S. 602, 613 (1971).[2]  For example, the Court has held that a public school became impermissibly “entangle[d]” with religion by simply permitting students to say a prayer before football games and overseeing a class election for whom would deliver the prayer.  Santa Fe Independent School Dist. v. Doe,

530 U.S. 290, 305–307 (2000).  And, in Locke v. Davey,

540 U.S. 712 (2004), the Court concluded that it would violate States’ “antiestablishment interests” if tax dollars even indirectly supported the education of ministers, id., at 722. But, when it comes to the autonomy of religious organizations in our ministerial-exception cases, these concerns of entanglement have not prevented the Court from weighing in on the theological questions of which positions qualify as “ministerial.”

															As this Court has explained, the Religion Clauses do not permit governmental “interfere[nce] with . . . a religious group’s right to shape its own faith and mission through its appointments.”  Hosanna-Tabor, supra, at 188.  To avoid such interference, we should defer to these groups’ good-faith understandings of which individuals are charged with carrying out the organizations’ religious missions.

															Here, the record confirms the sincerity of petitioners’ claims that, as lay teachers, Morrissey-Berru and Biel held ministerial roles in these parish schools.  For example, the Our Lady of Guadalupe Faculty Handbook states that lay teachers serve “special pastoral administrative roles . . . in the service of the people of God.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 19–267, p. 52a (emphasis added).  Moreover, their “essential job duties” include “[m]odeling, teaching of and commitment to Catholic religious and moral values.” Id., at 55a (boldface deleted); see also id., at 32a (Morrissey-Berru’s teaching contract); App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 19–348, p. 96a (Biel’s teaching contract).  And both Morrissey-Berru’s and Biel’s teaching contracts required that their “duties and responsibilities . . . be performed [with an] overriding commitment” to “develop[ing] . . . a Catholic School Faith Community” in accordance with “the doctrines, laws and norms of the Catholic Church.”  Ibid.; App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 19–267, at 32a.  Finally, amicus curiae United States Conference of Catholic Bishops confirms that petitioners’ understanding is consistent with the Church’s view that “Catholic teachers play a critical role” in the Church’s ministry.  Brief for United States Conference of Catholic Bishops 10–11; see also Catechism of the Catholic Church 8 (2d ed. 2016) (noting that the goal of “education in the faith of children [is] to initiat[e] the hearers into the fullness of Christian life” (emphasis deleted; internal quotation marks omitted)).

															The foregoing is more than enough to sustain the sincerity of petitioners’ claims that Morrissey-Berru and Biel held ministerial roles in the parish schools.  Their claims thus warrant this Court’s deference and serve as a sufficient basis for applying the ministerial exception.
Notes
1
 As the Court acknowledges, the term “ministerial exception” is somewhat of a misnomer.  See ante, at 11.  The
 
First Amendment’s protection of religious organizations’ employment decisions is not limited to members of the clergy or others holding positions akin to that of a “minister.”  Ibid.  Rather, as these cases demonstrate, such protection extends to the laity, provided they are entrusted with carrying out the religious mission of the organization.  Ante, at 2, 21. 

2
 As I have previously explained, this Court’s Establishment Clause jurisprudence “is unmoored from the original meaning of the
 
First Amendment.”  Espinoza v. Montana Dept. of Revenue, ante, at 2 (concurring opinion).  Properly understood, the Establishment Clause proscribes governmental “ ‘coercion of religious orthodoxy and of financial support by force of law and threat of penalty.’ ”  American Legion v. American Humanist Assn., 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 3) (quoting Lee v. Weisman,

505 U.S. 577, 640 (1992) (Scalia, J., dissenting)). 


