::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-005
::decision_cite:: 19-368
::decision_name::  Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–368 and 19–369

															_________________

															FORD MOTOR COMPANY, PETITIONER

															19–368v.

															MONTANA EIGHTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of montana

															

															FORD MOTOR COMPANY, PETITIONER

															19–369v.

															ADAM BANDEMER

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of minnesota

															 [March 25, 2021]

															

															Justice Alito, concurring in the judgment.

															These cases can and should be decided without any alteration or refinement of our case law on specific personal jurisdiction.  To be sure, for the reasons outlined in Justice Gorsuch’s thoughtful opinion, there are grounds for questioning the standard that the Court adopted in International Shoe Co. v. Washington,

326 U.S. 310 (1945).  And there are also reasons to wonder whether the case law we have developed since that time is well suited for the way in which business is now conducted.  But there is nothing distinctively 21st century about the question in the cases now before us, and the answer to that question is settled by our case law.

															Since International Shoe, the rule has been that a state court can exercise personal jurisdiction over a defendant if the defendant has “minimum contacts” with the forum—which means that the contacts must be “such that the maintenance of the suit does not offend ‘traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.’ ”  Id., at 316 (quoting Milliken v. Meyer,

311 U.S. 457, 463 (1940)).

															That standard is easily met here.  Ford has long had a heavy presence in Minnesota and Montana.  It spends billions on national advertising.  It has many franchises in both States.  Ford dealers in Minnesota and Montana sell and service Ford vehicles, and Ford ships replacement parts to both States.  In entertaining these suits, Minnesota and Montana courts have not reached out and grabbed suits in which they “have little legitimate interest.”  Bristol- Myers Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of Cal., San Francisco Cty., 582 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 6).  Their residents, while riding in vehicles purchased within their borders, were killed or injured in accidents on their roads.  Can anyone seriously argue that requiring Ford to litigate these cases in Minnesota and Montana would be fundamentally unfair?

															Well, Ford makes that argument.  It would send the plaintiffs packing to the jurisdictions where the vehicles in question were assembled (Kentucky and Canada), designed (Michigan), or first sold (Washington and North Dakota) or where Ford is incorporated (Delaware) or has its principal place of business (Michigan).

															As might have been predicted, the Court unanimously rejects this understanding of “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.”  And in doing so, we merely follow what we said in World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson,

444 U.S. 286, 297–298 (1980), which was essentially this: If a car manufacturer makes substantial efforts to sell vehicles in States A and B (and other States), and a defect in a vehicle first sold in State A causes injuries in an accident in State B, the manufacturer can be sued in State B.  That rule decides these cases.

															Ford, however, asks us to adopt an unprecedented rule under which a defendant’s contacts with the forum State must be proven to have been a but-for cause of the tort plaintiff ’s injury.  The Court properly rejects that argument, and I agree with the main thrust of the Court’s opinion.  My only quibble is with the new gloss that the Court puts on our case law.  Several of our opinions have said that a plaintiff ’s claims “ ‘must arise out of or relate to the defendant’s contacts’ ” with the forum.  See ante, at 6 (citing cases).  The Court parses this phrase “as though we were dealing with language of a statute,” Reiter v. Sonotone Corp.,

442 U.S. 330, 341 (1979), and because this phrase is cast in the disjunctive, the Court recognizes a new category of cases in which personal jurisdiction is permitted: those in which the claims do not “arise out of ” (i.e., are not caused by) the defendant’s contacts but nevertheless sufficiently “relate to” those contacts in some undefined way, ante, at 8–9.

															This innovation is unnecessary and, in my view, unwise.  To say that the Constitution does not require the kind of proof of causation that Ford would demand—what the majority describes as a “strict causal relationship,” ante, at 8—is not to say that no causal link of any kind is needed.  And here, there is a sufficient link.  It is reasonable to infer that the vehicles in question here would never have been on the roads in Minnesota and Montana if they were some totally unknown brand that had never been advertised in those States, was not sold in those States, would not be familiar to mechanics in those States, and could not have been easily repaired with parts available in those States.  See ante, at 13–14 (describing this relationship between Ford’s activities and these suits).  The whole point of those activities was to put more Fords (including those in question here) on Minnesota and Montana roads.  The common-sense relationship between Ford’s activities and these suits, in other words, is causal in a broad sense of the concept, and personal jurisdiction can rest on this type of link without strict proof of the type Ford would require.  When “arise out of ” is understood in this way, it is apparent that “arise out of ” and “relate to” overlap and are not really two discrete grounds for jurisdiction.  The phrase “arise out of or relate to” is simply a way of restating the basic “minimum contacts” standard adopted in International Shoe.

															Recognizing “relate to” as an independent basis for specific jurisdiction risks needless complications.  The “ordinary meaning” of the phrase “relate to” “is a broad one.”  Morales v. Trans World Airlines, Inc.,

504 U.S. 374, 383 (1992).  Applying that phrase “according to its terms [is] a project doomed to failure, since, as many a curbstone philosopher has observed, everything is related to everything else.”  California Div. of Labor Standards Enforcement v. Dillingham Constr., N. A., Inc.,

519 U.S. 316, 335 (1997) (Scalia, J., concurring).  To rein in this phrase, limits must be found, and the Court assures us that “relate to,” as it now uses the concept, “incorporates real limits.”  Ante, at 9.  But without any indication what those limits might be, I doubt that the lower courts will find that observation terribly helpful.  Instead, what limits the potentially boundless reach of “relate to” is just the sort of rough causal connection I have described.

															I would leave the law exactly where it stood before we took these cases, and for that reason, I concur in the judgment.
													
