::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-029
::decision_cite:: 19-422
::decision_name::  Collins v. Yellen
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–422 and 19–563

															_________________

															PATRICK J. COLLINS, et al., PETITIONERS

															19–422v.

															JANET L. YELLEN, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, et al.

															

															JANET L. YELLEN, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, et al., PETITIONERS

															19–563v.

															PATRICK J. COLLINS, et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 23, 2021]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Sotomayor join as to Part II, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment in part.

															Faced with a global financial crisis, Congress created the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) and gave it broad powers to rescue the Nation’s mortgage market.  I join the Court in deciding that the FHFA wielded its authority within statutory limits.  On the main constitutional question, though, I concur only in the judgment.  Stare decisis compels the conclusion that the FHFA’s for-cause removal provision violates the Constitution.  But the majority’s opinion rests on faulty theoretical premises and goes further than it needs to.  I also write to address the remedial question.  The majority’s analysis, which I join, well explains why backwards-looking relief is not always necessary to redress a removal violation.  I add only two thoughts.  The broader is that the majority’s remedial holding mitigates the harm of the removal doctrine applied here.  The narrower is that, as I read the decision below, the Court of Appeals has already done what is needed to find that the plaintiffs are not entitled to their requested relief.

															I

															I agree with the majority that Seila Law LLC v. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 591 U. S. ___ (2020), governs the constitutional question here.  See ante, at 26.  In Seila Law, the Court held that an “agency led by a single [d]irector and vested with significant executive power” comports with the Constitution only if the President can fire the director at will.  591 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 18).  I dissented from that decision—vehemently.  See id., at ___ (Kagan, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 4) (“The text of the Constitution, the history of the country, the precedents of this Court, and the need for sound and adaptable governance—all stand against the majority’s opinion”).  But the “doctrine of stare decisis requires us, absent special circumstances, to treat like cases alike”—even when that means adhering to a wrong decision.  June Medical Services L. L. C. v. Russo, 591 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (Roberts, C. J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 2).  So the issue now is not whether Seila Law was correct.  The question is whether that case is distinguishable from this one.  And it is not.  As I observed in Seila Law, the FHFA “plays a crucial role in overseeing the mortgage market, on which millions of Americans annually rely.”  591 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 31).  It thus wields “significant executive power,” much as the agency in Seila Law did.  And I agree with the majority that there is no other legally relevant distinction between the two.  See ante, at 29–32.

															For two reasons, however, I do not join the majority’s discussion of the constitutional issue.  First is the majority’s political theory.  Throughout the relevant part of its opinion, the majority offers a contestable—and, in my view, deeply flawed—account of how our government should work.  At-will removal authority, the majority intones, “is essential to subject Executive Branch actions to a degree of electoral accountability”—and so courts should grant the President that power in cases like this one.  Ante, at 27.  I see the matter differently (as, I might add, did the Framers).  Seila Law, 591 U. S., at ___–___ (Kagan, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 9–13).  The right way to ensure that government operates with “electoral accountability” is to lodge decisions about its structure with, well, “the branches accountable to the people.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 38); see id., at ___ (slip op., at 39) (the Constitution “instructs Congress, not this Court, to decide on agency design”).  I will subscribe to decisions contrary to my view where precedent, fairly read, controls (and there is no special justification for reversal).  But I will not join the majority’s mistaken musings about how to create “a workable government.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 38) (quoting Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer,

343 U.S. 579, 635 (1952) (Jackson, J., concurring)).

															My second objection is to the majority’s extension of Seila Law’s holding.  Again and again, Seila Law emphasized that its rule was limited to single-director agencies “wield[ing] significant executive power.”  591 U. S., at ___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 2); see id., at ___ (majority opinion) (slip op., at 18); id., at ___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 36).  To take Seila Law at its word is to acknowledge where it left off: If an agency did not exercise “significant executive power,” the constitutionality of a removal restriction would remain an open question.  Accord, post, at 11–12 (Sotomayor, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).  But today’s majority careens right past that boundary line.  Without even mentioning Seila Law’s “significant executive power” framing, the majority announces that, actually, “the constitutionality of removal restrictions” does not “hinge[ ]” on “the nature and breadth of an agency’s authority.”  Ante, at 27, 29.  Any “agency led by a single Director,” no matter how much executive power it wields, now becomes subject to the requirement of at-will removal.  Ante, at 26.  And the majority’s broadening is gratuitous—unnecessary to resolve the dispute here.  As the opinion later explains, the FHFA exercises plenty of executive authority: Indeed, it might “be considered more powerful than the CFPB.”  Ante, at 28.  So the majority could easily have stayed within, rather than reached out beyond, the rule Seila Law created.

															In thus departing from Seila Law, the majority strays from its own obligation to respect precedent.  To ensure that our decisions reflect the “evenhanded” and “consistent development of legal principles,” not just shifts in the Court’s personnel, stare decisis demands something of Justices previously on the losing side.  Payne v. Tennessee,

501 U.S. 808, 827 (1991).  They (meaning here, I) must fairly apply decisions with which they disagree.  But fidelity to precedent also places demands on the winners.  They must apply the Court’s precedents—limits and all—wherever they can, rather than widen them unnecessarily at the first opportunity.  Because today’s majority does not conform to that command, I concur in the judgment only.

															II

															I join in full the majority’s discussion of the proper remedy for the constitutional violation it finds.  I too believe that our Appointments Clause precedents have little to say about remedying a removal problem.  See ante, at 33–34; cf. Lucia v. SEC, 585 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 12) (requiring a new hearing before a properly appointed official).  As the majority explains, the officers heading the FHFA, unlike those with invalid appointments, possessed the “authority to carry out the functions of the office.”  Ante, at 34.  I also agree that plaintiffs alleging a removal violation are entitled to injunctive relief—a rewinding of agency action—only when the President’s inability to fire an agency head affected the complained-of decision.  See ante, at 35–36.  Only then is relief needed to restore the plaintiffs to the position they “would have occupied in the absence” of the removal problem.  Milliken v. Bradley,

433 U.S. 267, 280 (1977); see D. Laycock & R. Hasen, Modern American Remedies 275 (5th ed. 2019).  Granting relief in any other case would, contrary to usual remedial principles, put the plaintiffs “in a better position” than if no constitutional violation had occurred.  Mt. Healthy City Bd. of Ed. v. Doyle,

429 U.S. 274, 285 (1977).

															The majority’s remedial holding limits the damage of the Court’s removal jurisprudence.  As the majority explains, its holding ensures that actions the President supports—which would have gone forward whatever his removal power—will remain in place.  See ante, at 35.  In refusing to rewind those presidentially favored decisions, the majority prevents theories of formal presidential control from stymying the President’s real-world ability to carry out his agenda.  Similarly, the majority’s approach should help protect agency decisions that would never have risen to the President’s notice.  Consider the hundreds of thousands of decisions that the Social Security Administration (SSA) makes each year.  The SSA has a single head with for-cause removal protection; so a betting person might wager that the agency’s removal provision is next on the chopping block.  Cf. ante, at 32, n. 21.  But given the majority’s remedial analysis, I doubt the mass of SSA decisions—which would not concern the President at all—would need to be undone.  That makes sense.  “[P]residential control [does] not show itself in all, or even all important, regulation.”  Kagan, Presidential Administration, 114 Harv. L. Rev. 2245, 2250 (2001).  When an agency decision would not capture a President’s attention, his removal authority could not make a difference—and so no injunction should issue.

															My final point relates to the last sentence of the majority’s remedial section.  There, the Court holds that the decisive question—whether the removal provision mattered—“should be resolved in the first instance by the lower courts.”  Ante, at 36.  That remand follows the Court’s usual practice: We are, as we often say, not a “court of first view.”  Alabama v. Shelton,

535 U.S. 654, 673 (2002).  But here the lower court proceedings may be brief indeed.  As I read the opinion below, the Court of Appeals already considered and decided the issue remanded today.  The court noted that all of the FHFA’s policies were jointly “created [by] the FHFA and Treasury” and that the Secretary of the Treasury is “subject to at will removal by the President.”  Collins v. Mnuchin, 938 F.3d 553, 594 (CA5 2019).  For that reason, the court concluded, “we need not speculate about whether appropriate presidential oversight would have stopped” the FHFA’s actions.  Ibid.  “We know that the President, acting through the Secretary of the Treasury, could have stopped [them] but did not.”  Ibid; see ibid., n. 6 (noting that the plaintiffs’ “allegations show that the President had oversight of the action”).  That reasoning seems sufficient to answer the question the Court kicks back, and nothing prevents the Fifth Circuit from reiterating its analysis.  So I join the Court’s opinion on the understanding that this litigation could speedily come to a close.
													
