::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-021
::decision_cite:: 19-416
::decision_name::  Nestlé USA, Inc. v. Doe
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–416 and 19–453

															_________________

															NESTLE USA, INC., PETITIONER

															19–416v.

															JOHN DOE I, et al.

															

															CARGILL, INC., PETITIONER

															19–453v.

															JOHN DOE I, et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 17, 2021]

															

															Justice Thomas announced the judgment of the Court and delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I and II, and an opinion with respect to Part III, in which Justice Gorsuch and Justice Kavanaugh join.

															The Alien Tort Statute (ATS) gives federal courts jurisdiction to hear certain civil actions filed by aliens.

28 U. S. C. §1350.  Although this jurisdictional statute does not create a cause of action, our precedents have stated that courts may exercise common-law authority under this statute to create private rights of action in very limited circumstances.  See, e.g., Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain,

542 U.S. 692, 724 (2004); Hernández v. Mesa, 589 U. S. ___, ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 6, 14).  Respondents here seek a judicially created cause of action to recover damages from American corporations that allegedly aided and abetted slavery abroad.  Although respondents’ injuries occurred entirely overseas, the Ninth Circuit held that respondents could sue in federal court because the defendant corporations allegedly made “major operational decisions” in the United States.  The Ninth Circuit erred by allowing this suit to proceed.

															I

															According to the operative complaint, Ivory Coast—a West-African country also known as Côte d’Ivoire—is responsible for the majority of the global cocoa supply.  Respondents are six individuals from Mali who allege that they were trafficked into Ivory Coast as child slaves to produce cocoa.

															Petitioners Nestlé USA and Cargill are U. S.-based companies that purchase, process, and sell cocoa.  They did not own or operate farms in Ivory Coast.  But they did buy cocoa from farms located there.  They also provided those farms with technical and financial resources—such as training, fertilizer, tools, and cash—in exchange for the exclusive right to purchase cocoa.  Respondents allege that they were enslaved on some of those farms.

															Respondents sued Nestlé, Cargill, and other entities, contending that this arrangement aided and abetted child slavery.  Respondents argue that petitioners “knew or should have known” that the farms were exploiting enslaved children yet continued to provide those farms with resources.  App. 319.  They further contend that petitioners had economic leverage over the farms but failed to exercise it to eliminate child slavery.  And although the resource distribution and respondents’ injuries occurred outside the United States, respondents contend that they can sue in federal court because petitioners allegedly made all major operational decisions from within the United States.

															The District Court dismissed this suit after we held that the ATS does not apply extraterritorially.  Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co.,

569 U.S. 108 (2013).  It reasoned that respondents sought to apply the ATS extraterritorially because the only domestic conduct alleged was general corporate activity.  While this suit was on appeal, we held that courts cannot create new causes of action against foreign corporations under the ATS.  Jesner v. Arab Bank, PLC, 584 U. S. ___ (2018).  The Ninth Circuit then reversed the District Court in part.  Although the Ninth Circuit determined that Jesner compelled dismissal of all foreign corporate defendants, it concluded that the opinion did not foreclose judicial creation of causes of action against domestic corporations.  The Ninth Circuit also held that respondents had pleaded a domestic application of the ATS, as required by Kiobel, because the “financing decisions . . . originated” in the United States.  Doe v. Nestlé, S. A., 906 F.3d 1120, 1124–1126 (2018); see also 929 F.3d 623 (2019).  We granted certiorari, 591 U. S. ___ (2020), and now reverse.

															II

															Petitioners and the United States argue that respondents improperly seek extraterritorial application of the ATS.  We agree.

															Our precedents “reflect a two-step framework for analyzing extraterritoriality issues.”  RJR Nabisco, Inc. v. European Community,

579 U.S. 325, 337 (2016).  First, we presume that a statute applies only domestically, and we ask “whether the statute gives a clear, affirmative indication” that rebuts this presumption.  Ibid.  For the ATS, Kiobel answered that question in the negative.  569 U. S., at 124.  Although we have interpreted its purely jurisdictional text to implicitly enable courts to create causes of action, the ATS does not expressly “regulate conduct” at all, much less “evince a ‘clear indication of extraterritoriality.’ ”  Id., at 115–118.  Courts thus cannot give “extraterritorial reach” to any cause of action judicially created under the ATS.  Id., at 117–118.  Second, where the statute, as here, does not apply extraterritorially, plaintiffs must establish that “the conduct relevant to the statute’s focus occurred in the United States.”  RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 337.  “[T]hen the case involves a permissible domestic application even if other conduct occurred abroad.”  Ibid.

															The parties dispute what conduct is relevant to the “focus” of the ATS.  Respondents seek a judicially created cause of action to sue petitioners for aiding and abetting forced labor overseas.  Arguing that aiding and abetting is not even a tort, but merely secondary liability for a tort, petitioners and the United States contend that “the conduct relevant to the [ATS’s] focus” is the conduct that directly caused the injury.  See id., at 346 (a plaintiff who “does not overcome the presumption against extraterritoriality . . . therefore must allege and prove a domestic injury”).  All of that alleged conduct occurred overseas in this suit.  The United States also argues that the “focus” inquiry is beside the point; courts should not create an aiding-and-abetting cause of action under the ATS at all.  See Central Bank of Denver, N. A. v. First Interstate Bank of Denver, N. A.,

511 U.S. 164, 182–183 (1994) (“[W]hen Congress enacts a statute under which a person may sue and recover damages from a private defendant . . . , there is no general presumption that the plaintiff may also sue aiders and abettors” because that would create a “vast expansion of federal law”).  For their part, respondents argue that aiding and abetting is a freestanding tort and that courts may create a private right of action to enforce it under the ATS.  They also contend that the “focus” of the ATS is conduct that violates international law, that aiding and abetting forced labor is a violation of international law, and that domestic conduct can aid and abet an injury that occurs overseas.

															Even if we resolved all these disputes in respondents’ favor, their complaint would impermissibly seek extraterritorial application of the ATS.  Nearly all the conduct that they say aided and abetted forced labor—providing training, fertilizer, tools, and cash to overseas farms—occurred in Ivory Coast.  The Ninth Circuit nonetheless let this suit proceed because respondents pleaded as a general matter that “every major operational decision by both companies is made in or approved in the U. S.”  App. 314.  But allegations of general corporate activity—like decisionmaking—cannot alone establish domestic application of the ATS.

															As we made clear in Kiobel, a plaintiff does not plead facts sufficient to support domestic application of the ATS simply by alleging “mere corporate presence” of a defendant.  569 U. S., at 125.  Pleading general corporate activity is no better.  Because making “operational decisions” is an activity common to most  corporations, generic allegations of this sort do not draw a sufficient connection between the cause of action respondents seek—aiding and abetting forced labor overseas—and domestic conduct.  “[T]he presumption against extraterritorial application would be a craven watchdog indeed if it retreated to its kennel whenever some domestic activity is involved in the case.”  Morrison v. National Australia Bank Ltd.,

561 U.S. 247, 266 (2010).  To plead facts sufficient to support a domestic application of the ATS, plaintiffs must allege more domestic conduct than general corporate activity.  The Ninth Circuit erred when it held otherwise.

															III

															Respondents’ suit fails for another reason, which does not require parsing allegations about where conduct occurred: We cannot create a cause of action that would let them sue petitioners.  That job belongs to Congress, not the Federal Judiciary.  Sosa indicated that courts may exercise common-law authority under the ATS to create private rights of action in very limited circumstances.  542 U. S., at 724.  Sosa suggested, for example, that courts could recognize causes of action for three historical violations of international law: “violation of safe conducts, infringement of the rights of ambassadors, and piracy.”  Ibid.  But our precedents since Sosa have clarified that courts must refrain from creating a cause of action whenever there is even a single sound reason to defer to Congress.  See, e.g., Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8).  Tellingly, we have never created a cause of action under the ATS.  Even without reexamining Sosa, our existing precedents prohibit us from creating a cause of action here.

															A

															Originally passed as part of the Judiciary Act of 1789, the ATS provides jurisdiction to hear claims brought “by an alien for a tort only, committed in violation of the law of nations or a treaty of the United States.”

28 U. S. C. §1350.  If, for example, a treaty adopted by the United States creates a tort-related duty, federal district courts have jurisdiction to hear claims by aliens for breach of that duty.

															But the statute on its own does not empower aliens to sue.  We have been clear that “the ATS is a jurisdictional statute creating no new causes of action.”  Sosa, 542 U. S., at 724.  Aliens harmed by a violation of international law must rely on legislative and executive remedies, not judicial remedies, unless provided with an independent cause of action.  In more than 200 years, Congress has established just one: the Torture Victim Protection Act of 1991.  That Act creates a private right of action for victims of torture and extrajudicial killings in violation of international law.

106Stat.
73, note following

28 U. S. C. §1350.

															Because that cause of action does not apply here, respondents ask us to create a new one.  They suggest that a plaintiff is entitled to a judicially created cause of action absent compelling reasons to withhold one.  But our precedents demand precisely the opposite rule.

															In Sosa, we “assume[d]” that the First Congress, which enacted the ATS, believed that federal courts, under general common law, “would recognize private causes of action for certain torts in violation of the law of nations.”  542 U. S., at 724.  Although our decision in Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,

304 U.S. 64 (1938), “denied the existence of any federal ‘general’ common law,” we suggested that a limited, residual amount remained to create causes of action for violations of international law.  Sosa, 542 U. S., at 726, 729.  We noted, for example, that courts in certain circumstances likely could recognize causes of action for violations of three historical torts: “violation of safe conducts, infringement of the rights of ambassadors, and piracy.”  Id., at 724.

															At the same time, we stressed that this authority was narrow.  We noted that there was “no basis to suspect Congress had any examples in mind beyond those [three] torts.”  Ibid.  And we suggested that future “development” of law might “preclud[e] federal courts from recognizing” new causes of action.  Id., at 724–725.

															To guide our reasoning in the future, we described a two-step test that plaintiffs must satisfy before a court can create a cause of action under the ATS.  First, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant violated “ ‘a norm that is specific, universal, and obligatory’ ” under international law.  Id., at 732.  That norm must be “defined with a specificity comparable to” the three international torts known in 1789.  Id., at 725.  Second, the plaintiff must show that courts should exercise “judicial discretion” to create a cause of action rather than defer to Congress.  Id., at 726, 736, and n. 27; Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___–___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 11–12).

															Judicial authority under that test was narrow at the outset.  Our more recent precedents have made it narrower still by stressing that judicial creation of a cause of action is an extraordinary act that places great stress on the separation of powers.  Although this Court in the mid-20th century often assumed authority to create causes of action, Ziglar v. Abbasi, 582 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 8), “[i]n later years, we came to appreciate more fully the tension between this practice and the Constitution’s separation of legislative and judicial power,” Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  Because Erie denied the existence of a federal general common law, “a federal court’s authority to recognize a damages remedy must rest at bottom on a statute enacted by Congress.”  Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 5–6).  It follows that any judicially created cause of action risks “upset[ting] the careful balance of interests struck by the lawmakers.”  Ibid.

															To limit this stress on the separation of powers, our precedents have made clear that the second step of Sosa—which applies in any context where a plaintiff asks a court to create a cause of action—is extraordinarily strict.  A court “ ‘must’ ” not create a private right of action if it can identify even one “ ‘sound reaso[n] to think Congress might doubt the efficacy or necessity of [the new] remedy.’ ”  Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (majority opinion) (slip op., at 18) (quoting Abbasi, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 13)); see also Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8) (same).  This test is demanding by design, and we have yet to find it satisfied.  See Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 27) (no judicially created causes of action against foreign corporations); see also Sosa, 542 U. S., at 725 (no judicially created cause of action for illegal detention even under the less-demanding standard initially created by Sosa).

															B

															Regardless of whether respondents have satisfied the first step of the Sosa test, it is clear that they have not satisfied the second.  Our decisions since Sosa, as well as congressional activity, compel the conclusion that federal courts should not recognize private rights of action for violations of international law beyond the three historical torts identified in Sosa.

															We recently identified a sound reason to think Congress might doubt a judicial decision to create a cause of action that would enforce torts beyond those three: Creating a cause of action under the ATS “inherent[ly]” raises “foreign-policy concerns.”  Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (majority opinion) (slip op., at 19).  This suit illustrates the point, for the allegations here implicate a partnership (the Harkin-Engel Protocol and subsequent agreements) between the Department of Labor, petitioners, and the Government of Ivory Coast.  Under that partnership, petitioners provide material resources and training to cocoa farmers in Ivory Coast—the same kinds of activity that respondents contend make petitioners liable for violations of international law.  Companies or individuals may be less likely to engage in intergovernmental efforts if they fear those activities will subject them to private suits.

															Although specific foreign-policy concerns may vary from case to case, our precedents are clear that creating a cause of action to enforce international law beyond three historical torts invariably gives rise to foreign-policy concerns.  Ibid. (“foreign-policy . . . concerns [are] inherent in ATS litigation”).  Because “[t]he political branches, not the Judiciary, have the responsibility and institutional capacity to weigh foreign-policy concerns,” there will always be a sound reason for courts not to create a cause of action for violations of international law—other than perhaps for those three torts that were well established in 1789.  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 18–19).

															Congressional activity independently provides a sound reason to conclude that Congress might doubt a judicially created cause of action.  It is instructive to consider the changes Congress made to the remedies in the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2003 (TVPRA), which imposes liability for offenses related to human trafficking.  The initial text, passed in 2000, imposed criminal liability for human trafficking.  §112,

114Stat.
1464.  Congress later added a private right of action in 2003, allowing plaintiffs to sue the immediate “perpetrator” of a human trafficking violation.  §4(a)(4)(A),

117Stat.
2878.  And then in 2008, Congress created the present private right of action, allowing plaintiffs to sue defendants who are involved indirectly with slavery.  §§221, 222(b)(3),

122Stat.
5067–5068.

															This Act highlights that there are many different ways to create a cause of action that would enforce developments in international law beyond the three historical torts identified in Sosa—too many for courts to choose from when using the limited judicial discretion that Sosa recognizes.  Congress may well decide to create a cause of action against one category of defendants but not another.  See Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 20) (recognizing that Congress “unambiguously” limited the only legislative cause of action passed under the ATS to one category of defendants).  Or it might make distinctions—as it did in the TVPRA—between direct and indirect liability.  Congress settled on the current approach to private remedies against human trafficking only after its “understanding of the problem evolved” through years of studying “how to best craft a response.”  Brief for Members of Congress as Amici Curiae 9, 13.  The judicial role is to resolve cases and controversies, which typically present only the perspectives of the parties.  The Judiciary does not have the “institutional capacity” to consider all factors relevant to creating a cause of action that will “inherent[ly]” affect foreign policy.  Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (majority opinion) (slip op., at 19).  Respondents attempt to brush aside these concerns by suggesting that their allegations about decades-old conduct could satisfy the TVPRA if Congress had enacted that law earlier.  This observation simply proves the point.  Congress chose not to write a retroactive statute.  To create a cause of action here would impermissibly second-guess Congress’ decision not to subject past conduct to a new standard.

															When we decided Sosa, we remarked that there is “no basis to suspect Congress had any examples in mind beyond th[ree] torts” when it enacted the ATS.  542 U. S., at 724.  We “assume[d]” that no “development” of law had yet “precluded federal courts from recognizing” causes of action not created by Congress.  Id., at 724–725.  Nobody here has expressly asked us to revisit Sosa. But precedents since Sosa have substantially narrowed the circumstances in which “judicial discretion” under the Sosa test is permitted.  Id., at 726, 736, and n. 27.  Under existing precedent, then, courts in some circumstances might still apply Sosa to recognize causes of action for the three historical torts likely on the mind of the First Congress.  But as to other torts, our precedents already make clear that there always is a sound reason to defer to Congress, so courts may not create a cause of action for those torts.  Whether and to what extent defendants should be liable under the ATS for torts beyond the three historical torts identified in Sosa lies within the province of the Legislative Branch.

															*  *  *

															The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the cases are remanded for further proceedings.

															

															It is so ordered.
													
