::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-062
::decision_cite:: 19-465
::decision_name::  Chiafalo v. Washington
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–465

															_________________

															PETER B. CHIAFALO, LEVI JENNET GUERRA,  and ESTHER VIRGINIA JOHN, PETITIONERS  v. WASHINGTON

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court  of washington

															[July 6, 2020]

															

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Gorsuch joins as to Part II, concurring in the judgment.

															The Court correctly determines that States have the power to require Presidential electors to vote for the candidate chosen by the people of the State.  I disagree, however, with its attempt to base that power on Article II.  In my view, the Constitution is silent on States’ authority to bind electors in voting.  I would resolve this case by simply recognizing that “[a]ll powers that the Constitution neither delegates to the Federal Government nor prohibits to the States are controlled by the people of each State.”  U. S. Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton,

514 U.S. 779, 848 (1995) (Thomas, J., dissenting).

															I

															A

															The Constitution does not address—expressly or by necessary implication—whether States have the power to require that Presidential electors vote for the candidates chosen by the people.  Article II, §1, and the
 
Twelfth Amendment provide for the election of the President through a body of electors.  But neither speaks directly to a State’s power over elector voting.

															The only provision in the Constitution that arguably addresses a State’s power over Presidential electors is Clause 2 of Article II, §1.  That Clause provides, in relevant part, that “[e]ach State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors.”  As I have previously explained, this language “imposes an affirmative obligation on the States” to establish the manner for appointing electors.  U. S. Term Limits, 514 U. S., at 864 (dissenting opinion).  By using the term “shall,” “the Clause expressly requires action by the States.”  Id., at 862 (internal quotation marks omitted); see also Maine Community Health Options v. United States, 590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 12) (“The first sign that the statute imposed an obligation is its mandatory language: ‘shall’ ”); Lexecon Inc. v. Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach,

523 U.S. 26, 35 (1998) (recognizing that “ ‘shall’ [n]ormally creates an obligation”).  This obligation to provide the manner of appointing electors does not expressly delegate power to States; it simply imposes an affirmative duty.  See U. S. Term Limits, supra, at 862–863 (Thomas, J., dissenting).

															B

															In a somewhat cursory analysis, the Court concludes that the States’ duty to appoint electors “in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct,” Art. II, §1, cl. 2, provides an express grant of “power to appoint an elector.”  Ante, at 9.  As explained above, this interpretation erroneously conflates the imposition of a duty with the granting of a power.  But even setting that issue aside, I cannot agree with the Court’s analysis.  The Court appears to misinterpret Article II, §1, by overreading its language as authorizing the broad power to impose and enforce substantive conditions on appointment.  The Court then misconstrues the State of Washington’s law as enforcing a condition of appointment.

															1

															The Court’s conclusion that the text of Article II, §1, expressly grants States the power to impose substantive conditions or qualifications on electors is highly questionable.  Its interpretation appears to strain the plain meaning of the text, ignore historical evidence, and give the term “Manner” different meanings in parallel provisions of Article I and Article II.

															First, the Court’s attempt to root its analysis in Article II, §1, seems to stretch the plain meaning of the Constitution’s text.  Article II, §1, provides that States shall appoint electors “in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct.”  At the time of the founding, the term “manner” referred to a “[f]orm” or “method.”  1 S. Johnson, A Dictionary of the English Language (6th ed. 1785); see also 1 J. Ash, The New and Complete Dictionary of the English Language (2d ed. 1795).  These definitions suggest that Article II requires state legislatures merely to set the approach for selecting Presidential electors, not to impose substantive limitations on whom may become an elector.  And determining the “Manner” of appointment certainly does not include the power to impose requirements as to how the electors vote after they are appointed, which is what the Washington law addresses.  See infra, at 8–9.

															Historical evidence from the founding also suggests that the “Manner” of appointment refers to the method for selecting electors, rather than the substantive limitations placed on the position.  At the Convention, the Framers debated whether Presidential electors should be selected by the state legislatures or by other electors chosen by the voters of each State.  Oliver Ellsworth and Luther Martin, for example, thought the President should be chosen by electors selected by state legislatures.  McPherson v. Blacker,

146 U.S. 1, 28 (1892).  Alexander Hamilton, however, preferred a system in which the President would be chosen “by electors chosen by electors chosen by the people.”  Ibid.  The final language of Article II “seems to have reconciled [the] contrariety of views by leaving it to the state legislatures” to set the Manner of elector appointment.  Ibid.  In context, it is clear that the Framers understood “Manner” in Article II, §1, to refer to the mode of appointing electors—consistent with the plain meaning of the term.

															This understanding of “Manner” was seemingly shared by those at the ratifying conventions.  For instance, at the North Carolina ratifying convention, John Steele stated that “[t]he power over the manner of elections [under Article I, §4] does not include that of saying who shall vote.” 4 Debates on the Constitution 71 (J. Elliot ed. 1863) (emphasis added).  Rather “the power over the manner only enables [States] to determine how these electors shall elect.”  Ibid. (emphasis added and deleted).  In short, the historical context and contemporaneous use of the term “Manner” seem to indicate that the Framers and the ratifying public both understood the term in accordance with its plain meaning.

															Finally, the Court’s interpretation gives the same term—“Manner”—different meanings in two parallel provisions of the Constitution.  Article I, §4, states that “[t]he Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the Legislature thereof.”  In U. S. Term Limits, the Court concluded that the term “Manner” in Article I includes only “a grant of authority to issue procedural regulations,” not “the broad power to set qualifications.”  514 U. S., at 832–833 (majority opinion); see also id., at 861–864 (Thomas, J., dissenting).  Yet, today, the Court appears to take the exact opposite view.  The Court interprets the term “Manner” in Article II, §1, to include the power to impose conditions or qualifications on the appointment of electors.  Ante, at 9–10.

															With respect, I demur.  “When seeking to discern the meaning of a word in the Constitution, there is no better dictionary than the rest of the Constitution itself.”  Arizona State Legislature v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Comm’n,

576 U.S. 787, 829 (2015) (Roberts, C. J., dissenting); cf. Scialabba v. Cuellar de Osorio,

573 U.S. 41, 60 (2014) (Kagan, J., for the Court) (“ ‘[W]ords repeated in different parts of the same statute generally have the same meaning’ ” (quoting Law v. Siegel,

571 U.S. 415, 422 (2014)).  While terms may not always have the exact same meaning throughout the Constitution, here we are interpreting the same word (“Manner”) in two provisions that the Court has already stated impose “paralle[l]” duties—setting the “ ‘Manner of holding Elections’ ” and setting the “ ‘Manner’ ” of “ ‘appoint[ing] a Number of Electors.’ ”  U. S. Term Limits, 514 U. S., at 804–805 (majority opinion).  Nothing in the Constitution’s text or history indicates that the Court should take the strongly disfavored step of concluding that the term “Manner” has two different meanings in these closely aligned provisions.

															All the Court can point to in support of its position is a single sentence in Ray v. Blair,

343 U.S. 214 (1952), which suggested that a State’s power to impose a requirement that electors pledge to vote for their party’s nominee comes from Article II, §1, id., at 227.  But this statement is simply made in passing in response to one of the parties’ arguments.  It is curiously bereft of reasoning or analysis of Article II.  We generally look to the text to govern our analysis rather than insouciantly follow stray, “incomplete” statements in our prior opinions, see Thryv, Inc. v. Click-To-Call Technologies, LP, 590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 13).  In my view, we should be guided by the text here.

															2

															Even accepting the Court’s broad interpretation of Clause 2 of Article II, §1, I cannot agree with its determination that this Clause expressly authorizes the Washington law at issue here.  In an attempt to tie Washington’s law to the State’s “power to appoint an elector,” see ante, at 9, the Court construes Wash. Rev. Code §29 A. 56.340 (2016) as “enforc[ing] a pledge.”  See ante, at 10; see also ante, at 1–2, 7–9, 17.  But §29 A. 56.340 did not involve the enforcement of a pledge or relate to the appointment process at all.[1]  It simply regulated electors’ votes, unconnected to the appointment process.

															To understand the Court’s error, a brief summary of its theory is necessary.  According to the Court, Article II, §1, grants States “the power to appoint” Presidential electors “in such Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct.”  Ante, at 9.  That “power to appoint an elector,” the Court states, “includes power to condition his appointment.”  Ibid.  The power to condition appointment in turn allows the State to insist that an “elector pledge to cast his Electoral College ballot for his party’s presidential nominee.”  Ante, at 9–10.  And finally, “the State’s appointment power . . . enables the enforcement of a pledge.”  Ante, at 10.  The Court’s theory is entirely premised on the State exercising a power to appoint.

															Assuming the Court has correctly interpreted Article II, §1, there are certain circumstances in which this theory could stand.  Some States expressly require electors to pledge to vote for a party nominee as a condition of appointment and then impose a penalty if electors violate that pledge.  For example, under Oklahoma law, “[e]very party nominee for Presidential Elector shall subscribe to an oath, stating that said nominee, if elected, will cast a ballot for the persons nominated for the offices of President and Vice President by the nominee’s party.”  Okla. Stat., Tit. 26, §10–102 (2019).  Oklahoma then penalizes the violation of that oath: “Any Presidential Elector who violates his oath as a Presidential Elector shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00).”  §10–109 (emphasis added).  Other States have similar laws, first requiring a pledge as a condition of appointment and then penalizing the violation of that pledge.  See, e.g., Ind. Code §3–10–4–1.7(a) (2019) (imposing pledge requirement); §3–10–4–9(d) (stating that “[a] presidential elector who . . . presents a ballot marked in violation of the presidential elector’s pledge executed under section 1.7 . . . of this chapter, vacates the office of presidential elector” (emphasis added)); Minn. Stat. §208.43 (2020 Cum. Supp.) (imposing pledge requirement); §208.46(c) (stating that “[a]n elector who . . . presents a ballot marked in violation of the elector’s pledge executed under section 208.43 . . . vacates the office of elector” (emphasis added)).[2]

															But not all States attempt to bind electors’ votes through the appointment process.  Some States simply impose a legal duty that has no connection to elector appointment.  See ante, at 5.  For example, New Mexico imposes a legal duty on its electors: “All presidential electors shall cast their ballots in the electoral college for the candidates of the political party which nominated them as presidential electors.”  N. M. Stat. Ann. §1–15–9(A) (Supp. 2011).  And “[a]ny presidential elector who casts his ballot in violation of [this duty] is guilty of a fourth degree felony.”  §1–15–9(B).  California has a similar system.  It first imposes a legal duty on electors to vote for the nominated candidates of the political party they represent if those candidates are alive.  Cal. Elec. Code Ann. §6906 (West 2019).  It then imposes a punishment on “[e]very person charged with the performance of any duty under any law of this state relating to elections, who willfully neglects or refuses to perform it.”  §18002.[3]  These laws penalize electors for their faithless votes.  But they do not attempt to regulate the votes of electors through the appointment process.  In fact, these laws have nothing to do with elector appointment.

															The Court recognizes the distinction between these two types of laws, i.e., laws enforcing appointment conditions and laws that regulate electors outside of the appointment process.  See ante, at 5 (recognizing that some States “merely impose [a] duty by law”).  But it claims this is merely a “small semantic differenc[e].”  Ante, at 10, n. 6.  Far from being semantic, the difference between the power to impose a “condition of appointment” and the power to impose restrictions on electors that have nothing to do with appointment is fundamental to the Court’s textual argument.  The Court’s entire analysis is premised on States’ purported Article II “power to appoint an elector” and “to condition his appointment.”  Ante, at 9.  The Court does not, and cannot, claim that the text of Article II provides States power over anything other than the appointment of electors.  See ante, at 9–10.  

															Here, the challenged Washington law did not enforce any appointment condition.  It provided that “[a]ny elector who votes for a person or persons not nominated by the party of which he or she is an elector is subject to a civil penalty of up to one thousand dollars.”  Wash. Rev. Code §29 A. 56.340 (2016).  Unlike the laws of Oklahoma, Indiana, Minnesota and the other States discussed above, a violation of §29 A. 56.340 was not predicated on violating a pledge or any other condition of appointment.  In fact, it did not even mention a pledge, which was set forth in a separate, unreferenced provision.  See §29 A. 56.320.  Thus, §29 A. 56.340 had no connection to the appointment process and could be enforced independent of the existence of any pledge requirement.  While the Court’s description of §29 A. 56.340 as a law enforcing a condition of appointment may be helpful for the Court’s claim that Washington’s law was rooted in Article II, §1’s “power to appoint,” it is simply not accurate.  Thus, even accepting the Court’s strained reading of Article II, §1’s text, I cannot agree with the Court’s effort to reconcile Washington’s law with its desired theory.

															In short, the Constitution does not speak to States’ power to require Presidential electors to vote for the candidates chosen by the people.  The Court’s attempt to ground such a power in Article II’s text falls short.  Rather than contort the language of both Article II and the state statute, I would acknowledge that the Constitution simply says nothing about the States’ power in this regard.

															II

															When the Constitution is silent, authority resides with the States or the people.  This allocation of power is both embodied in the structure of our Constitution and expressly required by the
 
Tenth Amendment.  The application of this fundamental principle should guide our decision here.

															A

															“The ultimate source of the Constitution’s authority is the consent of the people of each individual State.”  U. S. Term Limits, 514 U. S., at 846 (Thomas, J., dissenting).  When the States ratified the Federal Constitution, the people of each State acquiesced in the transfer of limited power to the Federal Government.  They ceded only those powers granted to the Federal Government by the Constitution.  “The Federal Government and the States thus face different default rules: Where the Constitution is silent about the exercise of a particular power[,] the Federal Government lacks that power and the States enjoy it.”  Id., at 848; see also United States v. Comstock,

560 U.S. 126, 159 (2010) (Thomas, J., dissenting).

															This allocation of power is apparent in the structure of our Constitution.  The Federal Government “is acknowledged by all to be one of enumerated powers.”  McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405 (1819).  “[T]he powers delegated by the . . . Constitution to the federal government are few and defined,” while those that belong to the States “remain . . . numerous and indefinite.”  The Federalist No. 45, p. 292 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (J. Madison).  Article I, for example, enumerates various legislative powers in §8, but it specifically limits Congress’ authority to the “legislative Powers herein granted,” §1.  States face no such constraint because the Constitution does not delineate the powers of the States.  Article I, §10, contains a brief list of powers removed from the States, but States are otherwise “free to exercise all powers that the Constitution does not withhold from them.”  Comstock, supra, at 159 (Thomas, J., dissenting).

															This structural principle is explicitly enshrined in the
 
Tenth Amendment.  That Amendment states that “[t]he powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.”  As Justice Story explained, “[t]his amendment is a mere affirmation of what, upon any just reasoning, is a necessary rule of interpreting the constitution.  Being an instrument of limited and enumerated powers, it follows irresistibly, that what is not conferred, is withheld, and belongs to the state authorities.”  3 J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States §1900, p. 752 (1833); see also Alden v. Maine,

527 U.S. 706, 714 (1999); New York v. United States, 505 U.S. 144, 156 (1992).  In other words, the
 
Tenth Amendment “states but a truism that all is retained which has not been surrendered,” United States v. Darby,

312 U.S. 100, 124 (1941), “mak[ing] clear that powers reside at the state level except where the Constitution removes them from that level,” U. S. Term Limits, supra, at 848 (Thomas, J., dissenting); see also Garcia v. San Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority,

469 U.S. 528, 549 (1985).  

															Thus, “[w]here the Constitution is silent about the exercise of a particular power[,] that is, where the Constitution does not speak either expressly or by necessary implication,” the power is “either delegated to the state government or retained by the people.”  U. S. Term Limits, supra, at 847–848 (Thomas, J., dissenting); cf. Martin v. Hunter’s Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304, 326 (1816) (stating that the Federal Government’s powers under the Constitution must be “expressly given, or given by necessary implication”).

															B

															This fundamental allocation of power applies in the context of the electoral college.  Article II, §1, and the
 
Twelfth Amendment address the election of the President through a body of electors.  These sections of the Constitution provide the Federal Government with limited powers concerning the election, set various requirements for the electors, and impose an affirmative obligation on States to appoint electors.  Art. II, §1; Amdt. 12.  Each of these directives is consistent with the general structure of the Constitution and the principle of reserved powers.  See supra, at 9–10; U. S. Term Limits, supra, at 863 (Thomas, J., dissenting).  Put simply, nothing in the text or structure of Article II and the
 
Twelfth Amendment contradicts the fundamental distribution of power preserved by the
 
Tenth Amendment.

															Of course, the powers reserved to the States concerning Presidential electors cannot “be exercised in such a way as to violate express constitutional commands.”  Williams v. Rhodes,

393 U.S. 23, 29 (1968).  That is, powers related to electors reside with States to the extent that the Constitution does not remove or restrict that power.  Thus, to invalidate a state law, there must be “something in the Federal Constitution that deprives the [States of] the power to enact such [a] measur[e].”  U. S. Term Limits, 514 U. S., at 850 (Thomas, J., dissenting).

															As the Court recognizes, nothing in the Constitution prevents States from requiring Presidential electors to vote for the candidate chosen by the people.  Petitioners ask us to infer a constitutional right to elector independence by interpreting the terms “appoint,” “Electors,” “vote,” and “by Ballot” to align with the Framers’ expectations of discretion in elector voting.  But the Framers’ expectations aid our interpretive inquiry only to the extent that they provide evidence of the original public meaning of the Constitution.  They cannot be used to change that meaning.  As the Court explains, the plain meaning of the terms relied on by petitioners do not appear to “connote independent choice.”  Ante, at 11.  Thus, “the original expectation[s]” of the Framers as to elector discretion provide “no reason for holding that the power confided to the States by the Constitution has ceased to exist.”  McPherson, 146 U. S., at 36; see also ante, at 12–13.  

															*  *  *

															“The people of the States, from whom all governmental powers stem, have specified that all powers not prohibited to the States by the Federal Constitution are reserved ‘to the States respectively, or to the people.’ ” U. S. Term Limits, supra, at 852 (Thomas, J., dissenting).  Because I would decide this case based on that fundamental principle, I concur only in the judgment.
Notes
1
 In 2019, Washington revised its laws addressing Presidential electors, eliminating the provision imposing a civil penalty on faithless electors.  See 2019 Wash. Sess. Laws pp. 755–758. 

2
 See also Mont. Code Ann. §§13–25–304, 13–25–307(4) (2019); Neb. Rev. Stat. §§32–713(2), 32–714(4) (2016); Wash. Rev. Code §§29 A. 56.084, 29 A. 56.090(3) (2019). 

3
 Michigan likewise does not regulate electors through the appointment process.  Under Michigan law, the failure of an already appointed elector to resign “signifies” that the elector “consent[s] to serve and to cast his vote for the candidates for president and vice-president appearing on the Michigan ballot of the political party which nominated him.”  Mich. Comp. Laws §168.47 (2008).  Attempting to cast a vote for another candidate “constitutes a resignation from the office of elector.”  Ibid. 


