::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-060
::decision_cite:: 19-431
::decision_name::  Little Sisters of the Poor Saints Peter and Paul Home v. Pennsylvania
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Ginsburg
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–431 and 19–454

															_________________

															LITTLE SISTERS OF THE POOR SAINTS PETER  AND PAUL HOME, PETITIONER

															19–431v.

															PENNSYLVANIA, et al.

															

															DONALD J. TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE  UNITED STATES, et al., PETITIONERS

															19–454v.

															PENNSYLVANIA, et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit

															[July 8, 2020]

															

															Justice Ginsburg, with whom Justice Sotomayor joins, dissenting.

															In accommodating claims of religious freedom, this Court has taken a balanced approach, one that does not allow the religious beliefs of some to overwhelm the rights and interests of others who do not share those beliefs.  See, e.g., Estate of Thornton v. Caldor, Inc.,

472 U.S. 703, 708–710 (1985); United States v. Lee,

455 U.S. 252, 258–260 (1982).  Today, for the first time, the Court casts totally aside countervailing rights and interests in its zeal to secure religious rights to the nth degree.  Specifically, in the Women’s Health Amendment to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA),

124Stat.
119; 155 Cong. Rec. 28841 (2009), Congress undertook to afford gainfully employed women comprehensive, seamless, no-cost insurance coverage for preventive care protective of their health and well-being.  Congress delegated to a particular agency, the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), authority to designate the preventive care insurance should cover.  HRSA included in its designation all contraceptives approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

															Destructive of the Women’s Health Amendment, this Court leaves women workers to fend for themselves, to seek contraceptive coverage from sources other than their employer’s insurer, and, absent another available source of funding, to pay for contraceptive services out of their own pockets.  The Constitution’s Free Exercise Clause, all agree, does not call for that imbalanced result.[1]  Nor does the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 (RFRA),

42 U. S. C. §2000bb et seq., condone harm to third parties occasioned by entire disregard of their needs.  I therefore dissent from the Court’s judgment, under which, as the Government estimates, between 70,500 and 126,400 women would immediately lose access to no-cost contraceptive services.  On the merits, I would affirm the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

															I

															A

															Under the ACA, an employer-sponsored “group health plan” must cover specified “preventive health services” without “cost sharing,”

42 U. S. C. §300gg–13, i.e., without such out-of-pocket costs as copays or deductibles.[2]  Those enumerated services did not, in the original draft bill, include preventive care specific to women.  “To correct this oversight, Senator Barbara Mikulski introduced the Women’s Health Amendment,” now codified at §300gg–13(a)(4).  Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc.,

573 U.S. 682, 741 (2014) (Ginsburg, J., dissenting); see also 155 Cong. Rec. 28841.  This provision was designed “to promote equality in women’s access to health care,” countering gender-based discrimination and disparities in such access.  Brief for 186 Members of the United States Congress as Amici Curiae 6 (hereinafter Brief for 186 Members of Congress).  Its proponents noted, inter alia, that “[w]omen paid significantly more than men for preventive care,” and that “cost barriers operated to block many women from obtaining needed care at all.”  Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 742 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting); see, e.g., 155 Cong. Rec. 28844 (statement of Sen. Hagan) (“When . . . women had to choose between feeding their children, paying the rent, and meeting other financial obligations, they skipped important preventive screenings and took a chance with their personal health.”).

															Due to the Women’s Health Amendment, the preventive health services that group health plans must cover include, “with respect to women,” “preventive care and screenings . . . provided for in comprehensive guidelines supported by [HRSA].”  §300gg–13(a)(4).  Pursuant to this instruction, HRSA undertook, after consulting the Institute of Medicine,[3] to state “what preventive services are necessary for women’s health and well-being and therefore should be considered in the development of comprehensive guidelines for preventive services for women.”[4]  The resulting “Women’s Preventive Services Guidelines” issued in August 2011.[5]  Under these guidelines, millions of women who previously had no, or poor quality, health insurance gained cost-free access, not only to contraceptive services but as well to, inter alia, annual checkups and screenings for breast cancer, cervical cancer, postpartum depression, and gestational diabetes.[6]  As to contraceptive services, HRSA directed that, to implement §300gg–13(a)(4), women’s preventive services encompass “all [FDA] approved contraceptive methods, sterilization procedures, and patient education and counseling for all women with reproductive capacity.”[7]

															Ready access to contraceptives and other preventive measures for which Congress set the stage in §300gg–13(a)(4) both safeguards women’s health and enables women to chart their own life’s course.  Effective contraception, it bears particular emphasis, “improves health outcomes for women and [their] children,” as “women with unintended pregnancies are more likely to receive delayed or no prenatal care” than women with planned pregnancies.  Brief for 186 Members of Congress 5 (internal quotation marks omitted); Brief for American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists et al. as Amici Curiae 10 (hereinafter ACOG Brief ) (similar).  Contraception is also “critical for individuals with underlying medical conditions that would be further complicated by pregnancy,” “has . . . health benefits unrelated to preventing pregnancy,” (e.g., it can reduce the risk of endometrial and ovarian cancer), Brief for National Women’s Law Center et al. as Amici Curiae 23–24, 26 (hereinafter NWLC Brief ), and “improves women’s social and economic status,” by “allow[ing] [them] to invest in higher education and a career with far less risk of an unplanned pregnancy,” Brief for 186 Members of Congress 5–6 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															B

															For six years, the Government took care to protect women employees’ access to critical preventive health services while accommodating the diversity of religious opinion on contraception.  The Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Employee Benefits Security Administration (EBSA), and the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) crafted a narrow exemption relieving houses of worship, “their integrated auxiliaries,” “conventions or associations of churches,” and “religious order[s]” from the contraceptive- coverage requirement.  76 Fed. Reg. 46623 (2011).  For other nonprofit and closely held for-profit organizations opposed to contraception on religious grounds, the agencies made available an accommodation rather than an exemption.  See 78 Fed. Reg. 39874 (2013); Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 730–731.

															“Under th[e] accommodation, [an employer] can self-certify that it opposes providing coverage for particular contraceptive services.  See 45 CFR §§147.131(b)(4), (c)(1) [(2013)]; 26 CFR §§54.9815–2713A(a)(4), (b).  If [an employer] makes such a certification, the [employer’s] insurance issuer or third-party administrator must ‘[e]xpressly exclude contraceptive coverage from the group health insurance coverage provided in connection with the group health plan’ and ‘[p]rovide separate payments for any contraceptive services required to be covered’ without imposing ‘any cost-sharing requirements . . . on the [employer], the group health plan, or plan participants or beneficiaries.’ 45 CFR §147.131(c)(2); 26 CFR §54.9815–2713A(c)(2).”  Id., at 731 (some alterations in original).[8]

															The self-certification accommodation, the Court observed in Hobby Lobby, “does not impinge on [an employer’s] belief that providing insurance coverage for . . . contraceptives . . . violates [its] religion.”  Ibid.  It serves “a Government interest of the highest order,” i.e., providing women employees “with cost-free access to all FDA-approved methods of contraception.”  Id., at 729.  And “it serves [that] stated interes[t] . . . well.”  Id., at 731; see id., at 693 (Government properly accommodated employer’s religion-based objection to covering contraceptives under employer’s health insurance plan when the harm to women of doing so “would be precisely zero”).  Since the ACA’s passage, “[gainfully employed] [w]omen, particularly in lower-income groups, have reported greater affordability of coverage, access to health care, and receipt of preventive services.”  Brief for 186 Members of Congress 21.

															C

															Religious employers, including petitioner Little Sisters of the Poor Saints Peter and Paul Home (Little Sisters), nonetheless urge that the self-certification accommodation renders them “complicit in providing [contraceptive] coverage to which they sincerely object.”  Brief for Little Sisters 35.  In 2017, responsive to the pleas of such employers, the Government abandoned its effort to both end discrimination against employed women in access to preventive services and accommodate religious exercise.  Under new rules drafted not by HRSA, but by the IRS, EBSA, and CMS, any “non-governmental employer”—even a publicly traded for-profit company—can avail itself of the religious exemption previously reserved for houses of worship.  82 Fed. Reg. 47792 (2017) (interim final rule); 45 CFR §147.132(a)(1)(i)(E) (2018).[9]  More than 2.9 million Americans—including approximately 580,000 women of childbearing age—receive insurance through organizations newly eligible for this blanket exemption.  83 Fed. Reg. 57577–57578 (2018).  Of cardinal significance, the exemption contains no alternative mechanism to ensure affected women’s continued access to contraceptive coverage.  See 45 CFR §147.132.

															Pennsylvania and New Jersey, respondents here, sued to enjoin the exemption.  Their lawsuit posed this core question: May the Government jettison an arrangement that promotes women workers’ well-being while accommodating employers’ religious tenets and, instead, defer entirely to employers’ religious beliefs, although that course harms women who do not share those beliefs?  The District Court answered “no,” and preliminarily enjoined the blanket exemption nationwide.  281 F. Supp. 3d 553, 585 (ED Pa. 2017).  The Court of Appeals affirmed.  930 F.3d 543, 576 (CA3 2019).  The same question is now presented for ultimate decision by this Court.

															II

															Despite Congress’ endeavor, in the Women’s Health Amendment to the ACA, to redress discrimination against women in the provision of healthcare, the exemption the Court today approves would leave many employed women just where they were before insurance issuers were obliged to cover preventive services for them, cost free.  The Government urges that the ACA itself authorizes this result, by delegating to HRSA authority to exempt employers from the contraceptive-coverage requirement.  This argument gains the Court’s approbation.  It should not.

															A

															I begin with the statute’s text.  But see ante, at 17 (opinion of the Court) (overlooking my starting place). The ACA’s preventive-care provision,

42 U. S. C. §300gg–13(a), reads in full:

															“A group health plan and a health insurance issuer offering group or individual health insurance coverage shall, at a minimum provide coverage for and shall not impose any cost sharing requirements for—

															“(1) evidence-based items or services that have in effect a rating of ‘A’ or ‘B’ in the current recommendations of the United States Preventive Services Task Force;

															“(2) immunizations that have in effect a recommendation from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention with respect to the individual involved; . . .

															“(3) with respect to infants, children, and adolescents, evidence-informed preventive care and screenings provided for in the comprehensive guidelines supported by [HRSA; and]

															“(4) with respect to women, such additional preventive care and screenings not described in paragraph (1) as provided for in comprehensive guidelines supported by [HRSA] for purposes of this paragraph.”

															At the start of this provision, Congress instructed who is to “provide coverage for” the specified preventive health services: “group health plan[s]” and “health insurance issuer[s].”  §300gg–13(a).  As the Court of Appeals explained, paragraph (a)(4), added by the Women’s Health Amendment, granted HRSA “authority to issue ‘comprehensive guidelines’ concern[ing] the type of services” group health plans and health insurance issuers must cover with respect to women.  930 F. 3d, at 570 (emphasis added).  Nothing in paragraph (a)(4) accorded HRSA “authority to undermine Congress’s [initial] directive,” stated in subsection (a), “concerning who must provide coverage for these services.”  Ibid. (emphasis added).

															The Government argues otherwise, asserting that “[t]he sweeping authorization for HRSA to ‘provide[ ] for’ and ‘support[ ]’ guidelines ‘for purposes of ’ the women’s preventive-services mandate clearly grants HRSA the power not just to specify what services should be covered, but also to provide appropriate exemptions.”  Brief for HHS et al. 15.[10]  This terse statement—the entirety of the Government’s textual case—slights the language Congress employed.  Most visibly, the Government does not endeavor to explain how any language in paragraph (a)(4) counteracts Congress’ opening instruction in §300gg–13(a) that group health plans “shall . . . provide” specified services.  See supra, at 8–9.

															The Court embraces, and the opinion concurring in the judgment adopts, the Government’s argument.  The Court correctly acknowledges that HRSA has broad discretion to determine what preventive services insurers should provide for women.  Ante, at 15. But it restates that HRSA’s “discretion [is] equally unchecked in other areas, including the ability to identify and create exemptions from its own Guidelines.”  Ante, at 16.  See also ante, at 2–3 (Kagan, J., concurring in judgment) (agreeing with this interpretation).  Like the Government, the Court and the opinion concurring in the judgment shut from sight §300gg–13(a)’s overarching direction that group health plans and health insurance issuers “shall” cover the specified services.  See supra, at 8–9.  That “ ‘absent provision[s] cannot be supplied by the courts,’ ” ante, at 16 (quoting Rotkiske v. Klemm, 589 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 5), militates against the Court’s conclusion, not in favor of it.  Where Congress wanted to exempt certain employers from the ACA’s requirements, it said so expressly.  See, e.g., supra, at 3, n. 2.  Section 300gg–13(a)(4) includes no such exemption.  See supra, at 8–9.[11]

															B

															The position advocated by the Government and endorsed by the Court and the opinion concurring in the judgment encounters further obstacles.

															Most saliently, the language in §300gg–13(a)(4) mirrors that in §300gg–13(a)(3), the provision addressing children’s preventive health services.  Not contesting here that HRSA lacks authority to exempt group health plans from the children’s preventive-care guidelines, the Government attempts to distinguish paragraph (a)(3) from paragraph (a)(4).  Brief for HHS et al. 16–17.  The attempt does not withstand inspection.

															The Government first observes that (a)(4), unlike (a)(3), contemplates guidelines created “for purposes of this paragraph.”  (Emphasis added.)  This language does not speak to the scope of the guidelines HRSA is charged to create.  Moreover, the Government itself accounts for this textual difference: The children’s preventive-care guidelines described in paragraph (a)(3) were “preexisting guidelines . . . developed for purposes unrelated to the ACA.”  Brief for HHS et al. 16.  The guidelines on women’s preventive care, by contrast, did not exist before the ACA; they had to be created “for purposes of ” the preventive-care mandate.  §300gg–13(a)(4).  The Government next points to the modifier “evidence-informed” placed in (a)(3), but absent in (a)(4).  This omission, however it may bear on the kind of preventive services for women HRSA can require group health insurance to cover, does not touch or concern who is required to cover those services.[12]

															HRSA’s role within HHS also tugs against the Government’s, the Court’s, and the opinion concurring in the judgment’s construction of §300gg–13(a)(4).  That agency was a logical choice to determine what women’s preventive services should be covered, as its mission is to “improve health care access” and “eliminate health disparities.”[13]  First and foremost, §300gg–13(a)(4) is directed at eradicating gender-based disparities in access to preventive care.  See supra, at 3.  Overlooked by the Court, see ante, at 14–18, and the opinion concurring in the judgment, see ante, at 2–3 (opinion of Kagan, J.), HRSA’s expertise does not include any proficiency in delineating religious and moral exemptions.  One would not, therefore, expect Congress to delegate to HRSA the task of crafting such exemptions.  See King v. Burwell,

576 U.S. 473, 486 (2015) (“It is especially unlikely that Congress would have delegated this decision to [an agency] which has no expertise in . . . policy of this sort.”).[14]

															In fact, HRSA did not craft the blanket exemption.  As earlier observed, see supra, at 7, that task was undertaken by the IRS, EBSA, and CMS.  See also 45 CFR §147.132(a)(1), 147.133(a)(1) (direction by the IRS, EBSA, and CMS that HRSA’s guidelines “must not provide for” contraceptive coverage in the circumstances described in the blanket exemption (emphasis added)).  Nowhere in

42 U. S. C. §300gg–13(a)(4) are those agencies named, as earlier observed, see supra, at 8–9, an absence the Government, the Court, and the opinion concurring in the judgment do not deign to acknowledge.  See Brief for HHS et al. 15–20; ante, at 14–18 (opinion of the Court); ante, at 2–3 (opinion of Kagan, J.).

															C

															If the ACA does not authorize the blanket exemption, the Government urges, then the exemption granted to houses of worship in 2011 must also be invalid.  Brief for HHS et al. 19–20.  As the Court of Appeals explained, however, see 930 F. 3d, at 570, n. 26, the latter exemption is not attributable to the ACA’s text; it was justified on
 
First Amendment grounds.  See Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and School v. EEOC,

565 U.S. 171, 188 (2012) (the
 
First Amendment’s “ministerial exception” protects “the internal governance of [a] church”); 80 Fed. Reg. 41325 (2015) (the exemption “recogni[zes] [the] particular sphere of autonomy [afforded to] houses of worship . . . consistent with their special status under longstanding tradition in our society”).[15]  Even if the house-of-worship exemption extends beyond what the
 
First Amendment would require, see ante, at 3, n. 1 (opinion of Kagan, J.), that extension, as just explained, cannot be extracted from the ACA’s text.[16]

															III

															Because I conclude that the blanket exemption gains no aid from the ACA, I turn to the Government’s alternative argument.  The religious exemption, if not the moral exemption, the Government urges, is necessary to protect religious freedom.  The Government does not press a free exercise argument, see supra, at 2, and n. 1, instead invoking RFRA.  Brief for HHS et al. 20–31.  That statute instructs that the “Government shall not substantially burden a person’s exercise of religion even if the burden results from a rule of general applicability,” unless doing so “is the least restrictive means of furthering [a] compelling governmental interest.”

42 U. S. C. §2000bb–1(a), (b).

															A

															1

															The parties here agree that federal agencies may craft accommodations and exemptions to cure violations of RFRA.  See, e.g., Brief for Respondents 36.[17]  But that authority is not unbounded.  Cutter v. Wilkinson,

544 U.S. 709, 720 (2005) (construing Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000, the Court cautioned that “adequate account” must be taken of “the burdens a requested accommodation may impose on nonbeneficiaries” of the Act); Caldor, 472 U. S., at 708–710 (invalidating state statute requiring employers to accommodate an employee’s religious observance for failure to take into account the burden such an accommodation would impose on the employer and other employees).  “[O]ne person’s right to free exercise must be kept in harmony with the rights of her fellow citizens.”  Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 765, n. 25 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting).  See also id., at 746 (“[Y]our right to swing your arms ends just where the other man’s nose begins.” (quoting Chafee, Freedom of Speech in War Time, 32 Harv. L. Rev. 932, 957 (1919))).

															In this light, the Court has repeatedly assumed that any religious accommodation to the contraceptive-coverage requirement would preserve women’s continued access to seamless, no-cost contraceptive coverage.  See Zubik v. Burwell, 578 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (per curiam) (slip op., at 4) (“[T]he parties on remand should be afforded an opportunity to arrive at an approach . . . that accommodates petitioners’ religious exercise while . . . ensuring that women covered by petitioners’ health plans receive full and equal health coverage, including contraceptive coverage.” (internal quotation marks omitted)); Wheaton College v. Burwell,

573 U.S. 958, 959 (2014) (“Nothing in this interim order affects the ability of applicant’s employees and students to obtain, without cost, the full range of [FDA] approved contraceptives.”); Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 692 (“There are other ways in which Congress or HHS could equally ensure that every woman has cost-free access to . . . all [FDA]-approved contraceptives.  In fact, HHS has already devised and implemented a system that seeks to respect the religious liberty of religious nonprofit corporations while ensuring that the employees of these entities have precisely the same access to all FDA-approved contraceptives as employees of [other] companies.”).

															The assumption made in the above-cited cases rests on the basic principle just stated, one on which this dissent relies: While the Government may “accommodate religion beyond free exercise requirements,” Cutter, 544 U. S., at 713, when it does so, it may not benefit religious adherents at the expense of the rights of third parties.  See, e.g., id., at 722 (“[A]n accommodation must be measured so that it does not override other significant interests.”); Caldor, 472 U. S., at 710 (religious exemption was invalid for its “unyielding weighting in favor of ” interests of religious adherents “over all other interests”).  Holding otherwise would endorse “the regulatory equivalent of taxing non-adherents to support the faithful.”  Brief for Church-State Scholars as Amici Curiae 3.

															2

															The expansive religious exemption at issue here imposes significant burdens on women employees.  Between 70,500 and 126,400 women of childbearing age, the Government estimates, will experience the disappearance of the contraceptive coverage formerly available to them, 83 Fed. Reg. 57578–57580; indeed, the numbers may be even higher.[18]  Lacking any alternative insurance coverage mechanism, see supra, at 7, the exemption leaves women two options, neither satisfactory.

															The first option—the one suggested by the Government in its most recent rulemaking, 82 Fed. Reg. 47803—is for women to seek contraceptive care from existing government-funded programs.  Such programs, serving primarily low-income individuals, are not designed to handle an influx of tens of thousands of previously insured women.[19]  Moreover, as the Government has acknowledged, requiring women “to take steps to learn about, and to sign up for, a new health benefit” imposes “additional barriers,” “mak[ing] that coverage accessible to fewer women.”  78 Fed. Reg. 39888.  Finally, obtaining care from a government-funded program instead of one’s regular care provider creates a continuity-of-care problem, “forc[ing those] who lose coverage away from trusted providers who know their medical histories.”  NWLC Brief 18.

															The second option for women losing insurance coverage for contraceptives is to pay for contraceptive counseling and devices out of their own pockets.  Notably, however, “the most effective contraception is also the most expensive.”  ACOG Brief 14–15.  “[T]he cost of an IUD [intrauterine device],” for example, “is nearly equivalent to a month’s full-time pay for workers earning the minimum wage.”  Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 762 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting).  Faced with high out-of-pocket costs, many women will forgo contraception, Brief for 186 Members of Congress 11, or resort to less effective contraceptive methods, 930 F. 3d, at 563.

															As the foregoing indicates, the religious exemption “reintroduce[s] the very health inequities and barriers to care that Congress intended to eliminate when it enacted the women’s preventive services provision of the ACA.”  NWLC Brief 5.  “No tradition, and no prior decision under RFRA, allows a religion-based exemption when [it] would be harmful to others—here, the very persons the contraceptive coverage requirement was designed to protect.”  Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 764 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting).[20] I would therefore hold the religious exemption neither required nor permitted by RFRA.[21]

															B

															Pennsylvania and New Jersey advance an additional argument: The exemption is not authorized by RFRA, they maintain, because the self-certification accommodation it replaced was sufficient to alleviate any substantial burden on religious exercise.  Brief for Respondents 36–42.  That accommodation, I agree, further indicates the religious exemption’s flaws.

															1

															For years, religious organizations have challenged the self-certification accommodation as insufficiently protective of their religious rights.  See, e.g., Zubik, 578 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 3).  While I do not doubt the sincerity of these organizations’ opposition to that accommodation, Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 758–759 (Ginsburg. J., dissenting), I agree with Pennsylvania and New Jersey that the accommodation does not substantially burden objectors’ religious exercise.

															As Senator Hatch observed, “[RFRA] does not require the Government to justify every action that has some effect on religious exercise.”  139 Cong. Rec. 26180 (1993).  Bowen v. Roy,

476 U.S. 693 (1986), is instructive in this regard. There, a Native American father asserted a sincere religious belief that his daughter’s spirit would be harmed by the Government’s use of her social security number.  Id., at 697. The Court, while casting no doubt on the sincerity of this religious belief, explained:

															“Never to our knowledge has the Court interpreted the
 
First Amendment to require the Government itself to behave in ways that the individual believes will further his or her spiritual development or that of his or her family.  The Free Exercise Clause simply cannot be understood to require the Government to conduct its own internal affairs in ways that comport with the religious beliefs of particular citizens.”  Id., at 699.[22]

															Roy signals a critical distinction in the Court’s religious exercise jurisprudence: A religious adherent may be entitled to religious accommodation with regard to her own conduct, but she is not entitled to “insist that . . . others must conform their conduct to [her] own religious necessities.’ ”  Caldor, 472 U. S., at 710 (quoting Otten v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 205 F.2d 58, 61 (CA2 1953) (Hand, J.); (emphasis added).[23]  Counsel for the Little Sisters acknowledged as much when he conceded that religious “employers could [not] object at all” to a “government obligation” to provide contraceptive coverage “imposed directly on the insurers.”  Tr. of Oral Arg. 41.[24]

															But that is precisely what the self-certification accommodation does.  As the Court recognized in Hobby Lobby: “When a group-health-insurance issuer receives notice that [an employer opposes coverage for some or all contraceptive services for religious reasons], the issuer must then exclude [that] coverage from the employer’s plan and provide separate payments for contraceptive services for plan participants.”  573 U. S., at 698–699; see also id., at 738 (Kennedy, J., concurring) (“The accommodation works by requiring insurance companies to cover . . . contraceptive coverage for female employees who wish it.” (emphasis added)).  Under the self-certification accommodation, then, the objecting employer is absolved of any obligation to provide the contraceptive coverage to which it objects; that obligation is transferred to the insurer.  This arrangement “furthers the Government’s interest [in women’s health] but does not impinge on the [employer’s] religious beliefs.”  Ibid.; see supra, at 18–19.

															2

															The Little Sisters, adopting the arguments made by religious organizations in Zubik, resist this conclusion in two ways.  First, they urge that contraceptive coverage provided by an insurer under the self-certification accommodation forms “part of the same plan as the coverage provided by the employer.”  Brief for Little Sisters 12 (internal quotation marks omitted).  See also Tr. of Oral Arg. 29 (Little Sisters object “to having their plan hijacked”); ante, at 8 (Alito, J., concurring) (Little Sisters object to “maintain[ing] and pay[ing] for a plan under which coverage for contraceptives would be provided”).  This contention is contradicted by the plain terms of the regulation establishing that accommodation: To repeat, an insurance issuer “must . . . [e]xpressly exclude contraceptive coverage from the group health insurance coverage provided in connection with the group health plan.”  45 CFR §147.131(c)(2)(i)(A) (2013) (emphasis added); see supra, at 6.[25]

															Second, the Little Sisters assert that “tak[ing] affirmative steps to execute paperwork . . . necessary for the provision of ‘seamless’ contraceptive coverage to their employees” implicates them in providing contraceptive services to women in violation of their religious beliefs.  Little Sisters Reply Brief 7.  At the same time, however, they have been adamant that they do not oppose merely “register[ing] their objections” to the contraceptive-coverage requirement.  Ibid.  See also Tr. of Oral Arg. 29, 42–43 (Little Sisters have “no objection to objecting”); ante, at 8 (Alito, J., concurring) (Little Sisters’ “concern was not with notifying the Government that they wished to be exempted from complying with the mandate per se”).  These statements, taken together, reveal that the Little Sisters do not object to what the self-certification accommodation asks of them, namely, attesting to their religious objection to contraception.  See supra, at 6.  They object, instead, to the particular use insurance issuers make of that attestation.  See supra, at 18–19.[26]  But that use originated from the ACA and its once-implementing regulation, not from religious employers’ self- certification or alternative notice.

															*  *  *

															The blanket exemption for religious and moral objectors to contraception formulated by the IRS, EBSA, and CMS is inconsistent with the text of, and Congress’ intent for, both the ACA and RFRA.  Neither law authorizes it.[27]  The original administrative regulation accommodating religious objections to contraception appropriately implemented the ACA and RFRA consistent with Congress’ staunch determination to afford women employees equal access to preventive services, thereby advancing public health and welfare and women’s well-being.  I would therefore affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.[28]
Notes
1
 In Employment Div., Dept. of Human Resources of Ore. v. Smith,

494 U.S. 872 (1990), the Court explained that “the right of free exercise does not relieve an individual of the obligation to comply with a valid and neutral law of general applicability on the ground that the law proscribes (or prescribes) conduct that his religion prescribes (or proscribes).”  Id., at 879 (internal quotation marks omitted).  The requirement that insurers cover FDA-approved methods of contraception “applies generally, . . . trains on women’s well-being, not on the exercise of religion, and any effect it has on such exercise is incidental.”  Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc.,

573 U.S. 682, 745 (2014) (Ginsburg, J., dissenting).  Smith forecloses “[a]ny
 
First Amendment Free Exercise Clause claim [one] might assert” in opposition to that requirement.  573 U. S., at 744. 

2
 This requirement does not apply to employers with fewer than 50 employees,

26 U. S. C. §4980H(c)(2), or “grandfathered health plans”—plans in existence on March 23, 2010 that have not thereafter made specified changes in coverage,

42 U. S. C. §18011(a), (e); 45 CFR §147.140(g) (2018). “Federal statutes often include exemptions for small employers, and such provisions have never been held to undermine the interests served by these statutes.”  Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 763 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting).  “[T]he grandfathering provision,” “far from ranking as acategorical exemption, . . . is temporary, intended to be a means for gradually transitioning employers into mandatory coverage.”  Id., at 764(internal quotation marks omitted). 

3
 “The [Institute of Medicine] is an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, an organization Congress established for the explicit purpose of furnishing advice to the Government.”  Id., at 742, n. 3 (internal quotation marks omitted). 

4
 HRSA, U. S. Dept. of Health and Human Services (HHS), Women’s Preventive Services Guidelines, www.hrsa.gov/womens-guidelines/. 

5
 77 Fed. Reg. 8725 (2012). 

6
 HRSA, HHS, Women’s Preventive Services Guidelines, supra. 

7
 77 Fed. Reg. 8725 (alterations and internal quotation marks omitted).  Proponents of the Women’s Health Amendment specifically anticipated that HRSA would require coverage of family planning services.  See, e.g., 155 Cong. Rec. 28841 (2009) (statement of Sen. Boxer); id., at 28843 (statement of Sen. Gillibrand); id., at 28844 (statement of Sen. Mikulski); id., at 28869 (statement of Sen. Franken); id., at 28876 (statement of Sen. Cardin); ibid. (statement of Sen. Feinstein); id., at 29307 (statement of Sen. Murray). 

8
 This opinion refers to the contraceptive-coverage accommodation made in 2013 as the “self-certification accommodation.”  See ante, at 6 (opinion of the Court).  Although this arrangement “requires the issuer to bear the cost of [contraceptive] services, HHS has determined that th[e] obligation will not impose any net expense on issuers because its cost will be less than or equal to the cost savings resulting from th[ose] services.”  Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 698–699. 

9
 Nonprofit and closely held for-profit organizations with “sincerely held moral convictions” against contraception also qualify for the exemption.  45 CFR §147.133(a)(1)(i), (a)(2).  Unless otherwise noted, this opinion refers to the religious and moral exemptions together as “the exemption” or “the blanket exemption.” 

10
 This opinion uses “Brief for HHS et al.” to refer to the Brief for Petitioners in No. 19–454, filed on behalf of the Departments of HHS, Treasury, and Labor, the Secretaries of those Departments, and the President. 

11
 The only language to which the Court points in support of its contrary conclusion is the phrase “as provided for.”  See ante, at 15.  This phrase modifies “additional preventive care and screenings.”  §300gg–13(a)(4).  It therefore speaks to what services shall be provided, not who must provide them. 

12
 The Court does not say whether, in its view, the exemption authority it claims for women’s preventive care exists as well for HRSA’s children’s preventive-care guidelines. 

13
 HRSA, HHS, Organization, www.hrsa.gov/about/organization/. 

14
 A more logical choice would have been HHS’s Office for CivilRights (OCR), which “enforces . . . conscience and religious freedomlaws” with respect to HHS programs.  HHS, OCR, About Us, www.hhs.gov/ocr/about-us/.  Indeed, when the Senate introduced an amendment to the ACA similar in character to the blanket exemption, a measure that failed to pass, the Senate instructed that OCR administer the exemption. 158 Cong. Rec. 1415 (2012) (proposed amendment); id., at 2634 (vote tabling amendment). 

15
 On the broad scope the Court today attributes to the “ministerial exception,” see Our Lady of Guadalupe School v. Morrissey-Berru, 591 U. S. ___ (2020). 

16
 The Government does not argue that my view of the limited compass of §300gg–13(a)(4) imperils the self-certification accommodation.  Brief for HHS et al. 19–20.  But see ante, at 18, n. 9 (opinion of the Court).  That accommodation aligns with the Court’s decisions under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 (RFRA).  See infra, at 14–15.  It strikes a balance between women’s health and religious opposition to contraception, preserving women’s access to seamless, no-cost contraceptive coverage, but imposing the obligation to provide such coverage directly on insurers, rather than on the objecting employer.  See supra, at 6; infra, at 18–20. The blanket exemption, in contrast, entirely disregards women employees’ preventive care needs. 

17
 But see, e.g., Brief for Professors of Criminal Law et al. as AmiciCuriae 8–11 (RFRA does not grant agencies independent rulemaking authority; instead, laws allegedly violating RFRA must be challenged in court).  No party argues that agencies can act to cure violations of RFRA only after a court has found a RFRA violation, and this opinion does not adopt any such view. 

18
 The Government notes that 2.9 million people were covered by the 209 plans that previously utilized the self-certification accommodation.  83 Fed. Reg. 57577.  One hundred nine of those plans covering 727,000 people, the Government estimates, will use the religious exemption, while 100 plans covering more than 2.1 million people will continue to use the self-certification accommodation.  Id., at 57578.  If more plans, or plans covering more people, use the new exemption, more women than the Government estimates will be affected. 

19
 Title X “is the only federal grant program dedicated solely to providing individuals with comprehensive family planning and related preventive health services.”  HHS, About Title X Grants, www.hhs.gov/opa/title-x-family-planning/about-title-x-grants/.  A recent rule makes women who lose contraceptive coverage due to the religious exemption eligible for Title X services.  See 84 Fed. Reg. 7734 (2019).  Expanding eligibility, however, “does nothing to ensure Title X providers actually have capacity to meet the expanded client population.”  Brief for National Women’s Law Center et al. as Amici Curiae 22.  Moreover, that same rule forced 1,041 health providers, serving more than 41% of Title X patients, out of the Title X provider network due to their affiliation with abortion providers.  84 Fed. Reg. 7714; Brief for Planned Parenthood Federation of America et al. as Amici Curiae 18–19. 

20
 Remarkably, Justice Alito maintains that stripping women of insurance coverage for contraceptive services imposes no burden.  See ante, at 18 (concurring opinion).  He reaches this conclusion because, in his view, federal law does not require the contraceptive coverage denied to women under the exemption.  Ibid.  Congress, however, called upon HRSA to specify contraceptive and other preventive services for women in order to ensure equality in women employees’ access to healthcare, thus safeguarding their health and well-being.  See supra, at 2–5.  

21
 As above stated, the Government does not defend the moral exemption under RFRA.  See supra, at 13. 

22
 Justice Alito disputes the relevance of Roy, asserting that the religious adherent in that case faced no penalty for noncompliance with the legal requirement under consideration.  See ante, at 6, n. 5.  As Justice Alito acknowledges, however, the critical inquiry has two parts.  See ante, at 6–7.  It is not enough to ask whether noncompliance entails “substantial adverse practical consequences.”  One must also ask whether compliance substantially burdens religious exercise.  Like Roy, my dissent homes in on the latter question.   

23
 Even if RFRA sweeps more broadly than the Court’s pre-Smith jurisprudence in some respects, see Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 695, n. 3; but see id., at 749–750 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting), there is no cause to believe that Congress jettisoned this fundamental distinction. 

24
 Justice Alito ignores the distinction between (1) a request for an accommodation with regard to one’s own conduct, and (2) an attempt to require others to conform their conduct to one’s own religious beliefs.  This distinction is fatal to Justice Alito’s argument that the self-certification accommodation violates RFRA.  See ante, at 6–10. 

25
 Religious organizations have observed that, under the self-certification accommodation, insurers need not, and do not, provide contraceptive coverage under a separate policy number.  Supp. Brief for Petitioners in Zubik v. Burwell, O. T. 2015, No. 14–1418, p. 1.  This objection does not relate to a religious employer’s own conduct; instead, it concerns the insurer’s conduct.  See supra, at 18–19. 

26
 Justice Alito asserts that the Little Sisters’ “situation [is] the same as that of the conscientious objector in Thomas [v. Review Bd. of Ind. Employment Security Div.,

450 U.S. 707, 715 (1981)].”  Ante, at 9–10.  I disagree.  In Thomas, a Jehovah’s Witness objected to “work[ing] on weapons,” 450 U. S., at 710, which is what his employer required of him.  As above stated, however, the Little Sisters have no objection to objecting, the only other action the self-certification accommodation requires of them. 

27
 Given this conclusion, I need not address whether the exemption is procedurally invalid.  See ante, at 22–26 (opinion of the Court). 

28
 Although the Court does not reach the issue, the District Court did not abuse its discretion in issuing a nationwide injunction.  The Administrative Procedure Act contemplates nationwide relief from invalid agency action.  See

5 U. S. C. §706(2) (empowering courts to “hold unlawful and set aside agency action”).  Moreover, the nationwide reach of the injunction “was ‘necessary to provide complete relief to the plaintiffs.’ ”  Trump v. Hawaii, 585 U. S. ___, ___, n. 15 (2018) (Sotomayor, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 25, n. 13) (quoting Madsen v. Women's Health Center, Inc.,

512 U.S. 753, 765 (1994)).  Harm to Pennsylvania and New Jersey, the Court of Appeals explained, occurs because women who lose benefits under the exemption “will turn to state-funded services for their contraceptive needs and for the unintended pregnancies that may result from the loss of coverage.”  930 F. 3d, at 562.  This harm is not bounded by state lines. The Court of Appeals noted, for example, that some 800,000 residents of Pennsylvania and New Jersey work—and thus receive their health insurance—out of State.  Id., at 576.  Similarly, many students who attend colleges and universities in Pennsylvania and New Jersey receive their health insurance from their parents’ out-of-state health plans.  Ibid. 


