::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-029
::decision_cite:: 19-422
::decision_name::  Collins v. Yellen
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–422 and 19–563

															_________________

															PATRICK J. COLLINS, et al., PETITIONERS

															19–422v.

															JANET L. YELLEN, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, et al.

															

															JANET L. YELLEN, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, et al., PETITIONERS

															19–563v.

															PATRICK J. COLLINS, et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 23, 2021]

															

															Justice Thomas, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full.  I agree that the Directors were properly appointed and could lawfully exercise executive power.  And I agree that, to the extent a Government action violates the Constitution, the remedy should fit the injury.  But I write separately because I worry that the Court and the parties have glossed over a fundamental problem with removal-restriction cases such as these: The Government does not necessarily act unlawfully even if a removal restriction is unlawful in the abstract.

															I

															As discussed in more detail by the Court, Congress created the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) in 2008.  Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008,

12 U. S. C. §4501 et seq.  The FHFA is “an independent agency.”

12 U. S. C. §4511(a).  Among other things, it supervises and regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two companies created by Congress to provide liquidity and stability to the mortgage market.  See §4511(b).  In the midst of the 2008 financial crisis, the FHFA’s Director exercised his statutory authority under §4617(a)(1) to appoint the Agency as conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  As conservator, the Agency in effect had full control over the companies.

															The FHFA used this control to have the companies enter into several agreements with the Treasury Department to secure financing to keep both companies afloat.  Relevant here, the FHFA and Treasury signed two agreements, known as the
 
Third Amendments, requiring the companies to pay a quarterly dividend to Treasury of nearly all their net worth minus a predetermined capital reserve.

															Shareholders of the companies sued the FHFA, the Director, Treasury, and the Secretary of the Treasury.  They advanced four theories about why the adoption and enforcement of the
 
Third Amendments violated the law: (1) The FHFA’s conduct exceeded its statutory authority; (2) Treasury’s conduct exceeded its statutory authority; (3) Treasury’s conduct was arbitrary and capricious; and (4) the FHFA’s structure violated the “Separation of Powers” because the President could fire the FHFA Director only “for cause.”  App. 116–117; §4512(b)(2).

															The District Court rejected their claims.  The Fifth Circuit affirmed the dismissal of claims two and three, and the shareholders did not seek review of that decision.  The Fifth Circuit reinstated the statutory claim, but today we correctly reverse that decision.  Ante, at 12–17.  The Fifth Circuit also held that the shareholders are entitled to judgment on the separation-of-powers claim.  Collins v. Mnuchin, 938 F.3d 553, 587 (2019)

															II

															For the shareholders to prevail, identifying some conflict between the Constitution and a statute is not enough.  They must show that the challenged Government action at issue—the adoption and implementation of the
 
Third Amendment—was, in fact, unlawful.  See California v. Texas, 593 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2021) (slip op., at 4–9).  Modern standing doctrine reflects this principle: To have standing, a plaintiff must allege an injury traceable to an “allegedly unlawful” action (or threatened action) and seek a remedy to redress that action.  Allen v. Wright,

468 U.S. 737, 751 (1984); accord, Virginia v. American Booksellers Assn., Inc.,

484 U.S. 383, 392 (1988); contra, 938 F. 3d, at 586 (tracing injury to the removal restriction).  Here, before a court can provide relief, it must conclude that either the adoption or implementation of the
 
Third Amendment was unlawful.[1]

															The parties simply assume that the lawfulness of agency  action turns on the lawfulness of the removal restriction.  Our recent precedents have not clearly questioned this premise, and on this premise, the Court correctly resolves the remaining legal issues.  But in the future, parties and courts should ensure not only that a provision is unlawful but also that unlawful action was taken.

															This suit provides a good example.  The shareholders largely neglect the issue of lawfulness to focus on remedy, but their briefing appears premised on several theories of unlawfulness.[2]  First, that the removal restriction renders all Agency actions void because the Directors serve in violation of the Constitution’s structural provisions, similar to Appointments Clause cases, see Lucia v. SEC, 585 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 12) (holding that an Administrative Law Judge was unlawfully appointed), and other separation-of-powers cases, e.g., Bowsher v. Synar,

478 U.S. 714, 727–736 (1986) (holding that the Comptroller General was not an executive officer and could not exercise executive power granted to him by statute).  Second, that even if the Director is in the Executive Branch and the removal restriction is just unenforceable, the mere existence of the law somehow taints all of the Director’s actions.  Third, that “when FHFA’s single Director exercises Executive Power without meaningful oversight from the President, he exercises authority that was never properly his.”  Brief for Collins et al. 64.  Fourth, that the statutory provision that gave the Director the power to adopt and implement the
 
Third Amendments must fall if the statutory removal restriction is unlawful.  §4617(b)(2)(J)(ii).

															As the Court’s reasoning makes clear, however, all these theories appear to fail on the merits.

															A

															I begin with whether the FHFA Director may lawfully exercise executive authority.  The shareholders suggest that the removal restriction inherently renders the Agency’s actions void.  In support, they point to our Appointments Clause cases and our other separation-of-powers cases.  But the cases on which they rely prove quite the opposite.

															Consider our separation-of-powers cases, which set out a two-part analysis to determine whether an official can lawfully exercise a statutory power at all.  First, we ask in what branch (if any) an official is located.  Second, we determine whether the statutory power possessed by the official belongs to that branch.  In Bowsher, the Court determined that the Comptroller General of the United States was “an officer of the Legislative Branch” based on other statutes dating back to 1945 declaring him as such, the expressed views of other Comptrollers General, the fact that only Congress could remove the Comptroller General, and the structure of the office.  478 U. S., at 727–732.  In light of this legislative identity, the Court held the Comptroller General could not lawfully exercise executive powers assigned to him by statute.  Id., at 732–735.[3]

															Assuming the shareholders raise a Bowsher-type argument, I agree with the Court that the FHFA Director is an executive official who can lawfully “carry out the functions of the office.”  Ante, at 33–35, and n. 25 (discussing Bowsher).  The statutory scheme creates a common type of executive officer—an individual nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate, who heads an agency exercising executive powers and who reports to the President.  The only statutory powers assigned to the Director are executive.  No party contends the office of the FHFA Director is a nonexecutive office.  No statute refers to him as a nonexecutive officer.  And the statutory scheme recognizes that the President can remove the officer (but only “for cause”).  §4512(b)(2).  In fact, the Court concludes that the removal restriction is unconstitutional in part because the FHFA Director is an executive officer whom the President needs to be able to control.  See ante, at 26–32.

															Our cases demonstrate that the existence of a removal restriction, without more, usually does not take an otherwise executive officer outside the Executive Branch.  True, statutory provisions governing who can remove an officer (and when) can provide evidence of the branch to which that officer belongs.  E.g., Bowsher, 478 U. S., at 727–728, and n. 5; American Ins. Co. v. 356 Bales of Cotton, 1 Pet. 511, 546 (1828).  But they generally are not dispositive.  In many cases, it is obvious that the officer is executive, and it is the removal restriction—not the officer’s exercise of executive powers—that is the problem.  E.g., Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Bd.,

561 U.S. 477, 492–508 (2010) (holding unconstitutional tenure provisions protecting executive officer, but concluding “the existence of the Board does not violate the separation of powers”); cf. Myers v. United States,

272 U.S. 52, 108, 176 (1926).[4]

															The Appointments Clause cases do not help the shareholders either.  These cases also ask whether an officer can lawfully exercise the statutory power of his office at all in light of the rule that an officer must be properly appointed before he can legally act as an officer.  Lucia, 585 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12); Ryder v. United States, 515 U. S 177, 182–183 (1995).  Otherwise, the official’s authority to exercise the powers of the office generally is legally deficient.  Id., at 179, 182–183.  Here, “[a]ll the officers who headed the FHFA during the time in question were properly appointed.”  Ante, at 33.  There is thus no barrier to them exercising power in the first instance.

															B

															The mere existence of an unconstitutional removal provision, too, generally does not automatically taint Government action by an official unlawfully insulated.  It is true the removal restriction here is unlawful.  But while the shareholders are correct that the Constitution authorizes the President to dismiss the FHFA Director for any reason, no statute can take that Presidential power away.  See Seila Law LLC v. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, 591 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (slip op., at 15) (“In the context of a constitutional challenge, . . . if a party argues that a statute and the Constitution conflict, then courts must resolve that dispute and . . . follow the higher law of the Constitution” (internal quotation marks omitted)); ante, at 35.

															That the Constitution automatically trumps an inconsistent statute creates a paradox for the shareholders.  Had the removal restriction not conflicted with the Constitution, the law would never have unconstitutionally insulated any Director.  And while the provision does conflict with the Constitution, the Constitution has always displaced it and the President has always had the power to fire the Director for any reason.  So regardless of whether the removal restriction was lawful or not, the President always had the legal power to remove the Director in a manner consistent with the Constitution.[5]  Brief for Harrison as Amicus Curiae 15–16.

															Moreover, no Director has ever purported to occupy the office and exercise its powers despite a Presidential attempt at removal.  No court, for example, has enjoined an attempt by the President to remove the Director.[6]  So every Director is a lawfully appointed executive officer whom the President may remove in a manner consistent with the Constitution but did not attempt to do so.

															C

															Another possible theory the shareholders seem to rely on is that a misunderstanding about the correct state of the law makes an otherwise constitutional action unconstitutional.  Thus, if the President or Director misunderstood the circumstances under which the President could have removed the Director, then that creates a defect in authority.  But nothing in the Constitution, history, or our case law supports this expansive view of unlawfulness.  The Constitution does not transform unfamiliarity with the Vesting Clause into a legal violation when an executive officer acts with authority.[7]

															Perhaps the better understanding of this argument is the Director might have acted differently if he knew that he served at the pleasure of the President.  That may be true, but it is not enough for a party to show that an official acted differently because he or another official incorrectly interpreted the Vesting Clause—the party must show that the official acted unlawfully.  If the President vetoed a bill on the ground that he believed it to be unconstitutional, this Court could not undo that lawful act simply because an injured plaintiff persuasively establishes that the President was mistaken. 

															Sure enough, we have not held that a misunderstanding about authority results in a constitutional defect where the action was otherwise lawful.  Absent such authority in a “constitutional cas[e], our watchword [should be] caution.”  Hernández v. Mesa, 589 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 6).  We should be reluctant to create a new restriction on a coequal branch and enforce it through a new private right of action.  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 6–7).  Doing so places great stress upon “the Constitution’s separation of legislative and judicial power.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).

															Seila Law and Free Enterprise do not help the shareholders on the lawfulness of the Government actions question.  Ante, at 18, 34–35.  In Seila Law, the Government in effect “conceded that [its] actions were unconstitutional” if the removal restriction was unconstitutional.  591 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 17).  So the Court assumed “that [petitioner] ‘sustain[ed] injury’ from an executive act that allegedly exceeds the official’s authority.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 10); ante, at 34–35.  In Free Enterprise, we considered a similar challenge to a removal restriction without questioning the plaintiffs’ standing “where plaintiffs claimed injury from allegedly unlawful agency oversight.”  Ante, at 18.  And then we assumed that the agency lacked the authority to act lawfully if the removal restriction there were invalid.

															D

															The shareholders’ briefing strongly implies one final argument: The statutory provision giving the FHFA the power to act as conservator,

12 U. S. C. §4617(b)(2)(J)(ii), cannot be severed from the removal restriction.  Brief for Collins et al. 77–79.  Thus, the argument goes, if the removal provision is unlawful, then §4617(b)(2)(j)(ii) is too and the FHFA Directors acted without statutory authority.

															Assuming that the unlawfulness of one provision can cause another to be unlawful, this inquiry is just a question of statutory interpretation.  See Seila Law, 591 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 20); Lea, Situational Severability, 103 Va. L. Rev. 735, 764–776 (2017).  The Recovery Act contains no inseverability clause.  Contra,

4 U. S. C. §125 (inseverability clause).  Nor does it contain any fallback provision stating that §4617(b)(2)(j)(ii) should be altered if the removal clause is found unlawful.  Without something in the statutory text or structure to show that §4617(b)(2)(j)(ii)’s lawfulness rises or falls based on the removal restriction, this argument is also unconvincing.

															*  *  *

															I do not understand the parties to have sought review of these issues in this Court.  So the Court correctly resolves the legal issues presented.  That being said, I seriously doubt that the shareholders can demonstrate that any relevant action by an FHFA Director violated the Constitution.  And, absent an unlawful act, the shareholders are not entitled to a remedy.  The Fifth Circuit can certainly consider this issue on remand.
Notes
1
 Another limit on the judicial power is relevant: A party seeking relief must have a legal right to redress.  See Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 405 (1821) (explaining that Article III “does not extend the judicial power to every violation of the constitution which may possibly take place”).  The judicial power extends only “to ‘a case in law or equity,’ in which a right, under such law, is asserted.”  Ibid.  We have indicated that individuals may have an implied private right of action under the Constitution to seek equitable relief to “ ‘preven[t] entities from acting unconstitutionally.’ ”  Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Bd.,

561 U.S. 477, 491, n. 2 (2010).  This includes “Appointments Clause or separation-of-powers claim[s].”  Ibid.  I assume the shareholders have brought such a cause of action here and have a legal right to obtain equitable relief if they can show they suffered an injury traceable to a Government action that violates the Constitution.  The shareholders did not raise the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) in count four of their complaint, but now contend their “constitutional claim is cognizable under the APA,” which permits a “ ‘reviewing court [to] hold unlawful and set aside agency action  found to be  contrary to constitutional right, power, privilege, or immunity.’ ”  Brief for Collins et al. 74 (quoting

5 U. S. C. §706; ellipses omitted; emphasis in original).  Even assuming they raised their constitutional claim under the APA, it would not change the analysis; the shareholders would need to show they suffered an injury traceable to a Government action that violates the Constitution. 

2
 Because the shareholders allege the Government acted unlawfully, because their alleged injury can be traced to those allegedly unlawful actions, and because this Court might be able to redress that injury, I agree with the Court that they have standing.  See Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment,

523 U.S. 83, 89 (1998). 

3
 See also Stern v. Marshall,

564 U.S. 462, 503 (2011) (bankruptcy judges, as Article I officers, cannot exercise exclusive Article III power); Clinton v. City of New York,

524 U.S. 417, 438–441, 448–449 (1998) (the President, an Article II officer, cannot exercise Article I line-item-veto power); Morrison v. Olson,

487 U.S. 654, 677–679 (1988) (a law cannot give a court powers that violated Article III); Glidden Co. v. Zdanok,

370 U.S. 530, 584 (1962) (plurality opinion) (concluding after exhaustive analysis that two courts were Article III courts); id., at 585–588 (Clark, J., concurring in result) (agreeing “in light of the congressional power exercised and the jurisdiction enjoyed, together with the characteristics of its judges”); American Ins. Co. v. 356 Bales of Cotton, 1 Pet. 511, 546 (1828) (a territorial court is an Article I court and admiralty jurisdictioncan be exercised only by Article III courts, but Article IV removes this limitation with respect to the Territories). 

4
 I agree with Justice Gorsuch that a court must look at more than the label to determine in what branch an officer sits.  Post, at 3, n. 1 (opinion concurring in part).  To answer this question, courts have historically looked at various factors.  See n.3, supra.  Here, everything about the Director’s position, except the removal restriction, indicates he is an executive officer.  See also ante, at 35, n. 25 (opinion of the Court).  As the Court correctly explains, “the removal restriction . . . violates the separation of powers” because the Director is an executive officer.  Ante, at 32. 

5
 In Seila Law, the Court did not address whether an officer acts unlawfully if protected by an unlawful removal restriction.  See ante, at 34, and nn. 23–24.  That is because the Government in effect conceded the issue.  Seila Law, 591 U. S., at ___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 30); id., at ___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 17).  Perhaps we should have addressed it then.  Post, at 6–7, n. 2 (opinion of Gorsuch, J.).   I continue to adhere to the views that I expressed in Seila Law: A combination of statutes can produce a separation-of-powers violation that renders Government action unlawful.  See 591 U. S., at ___ (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part) (slip op., at 21).  In remedying such a separation-of-powers violation, courts cannot purport to rewrite the statute to avoid the violation.  Ibid.; post, at 6, n. 2 (opinion of Gorsuch, J.) (“[W]e cannot divine ‘which of the provisions’ Congress would have kept and which it would have scrapped . . . had it known its actual choice was unconstitutional,” “absent statutory direction from Congress”).  However, I respectfully part ways with Justice Gorsuch, because, on the merits, I am uncertain whether the unlawful removal restriction here combines with any other statutory provision in a way that renders the Government action at issue unlawful. 

6
 A removal restriction may unconstitutionally insulate an officer such that his actions are unlawful.  If the President tries to remove an officialbut a court blocks this action, then that official is not lawfully occupying his office and would likely be acting without authority.  Cf. ante, at 35.  But that circumstance has not arisen here.  

7
 The APA might permit this type of lawsuit in allowing an individual to challenge an agency action as “arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law.”

5 U. S. C. §706(2)(A).  There is a colorable argument that a Government official’s misunderstanding about the scope of the President’s removal authority would render an agency action arbitrary or capricious in certain cases.  However, the shareholders did not bring this constitutional challenge as an arbitrary and capricious claim against the FHFA.  And if they had, we would need to consider the interaction between this statutory claim and the Act’s anti-injunction provision.  Cf. ante, at 12–13. 


