::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-060
::decision_cite:: 19-431
::decision_name::  Little Sisters of the Poor Saints Peter and Paul Home v. Pennsylvania
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–431 and 19–454

															_________________

															LITTLE SISTERS OF THE POOR SAINTS PETER  AND PAUL HOME, PETITIONER

															19–431v.

															PENNSYLVANIA, et al.

															

															DONALD J. TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE  UNITED STATES, et al., PETITIONERS

															19–454v.

															PENNSYLVANIA, et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit

															[July 8, 2020]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Gorsuch joins, concurring.

															In these cases, the Court of Appeals held, among other things, (1) that the Little Sisters of the Poor lacked standing to appeal, (2) that the Affordable Care Act (ACA) does not permit any exemptions from the so-called contraceptive mandate, (3) that the Departments responsible for issuing the challenged rule[1] violated the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) by failing to provide notice of proposed rulemaking, and (4) that the final rule creating the current exemptions is invalid because the Departments did not have an open mind when they considered comments to the rule.  Based on this analysis, the Court of Appeals affirmed the nationwide injunction issued by the District Court.

															This Court now concludes that all the holdings listed above were erroneous, and I join the opinion of the Court in full.  We now send these cases back to the lower courts, where the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the State of New Jersey are all but certain to pursue their argument that the current rule is flawed on yet another ground, namely, that it is arbitrary and capricious and thus violates the APA.  This will prolong the legal battle in which the Little Sisters have now been engaged for seven years—even though during all this time no employee of the Little Sisters has come forward with an objection to the Little Sisters’ conduct.

															I understand the Court’s desire to decide no more than is strictly necessary, but under the circumstances here, I would decide one additional question: whether the Court of Appeals erred in holding that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), 42 U. S. C. §§2000bb–2000bb–4, does not compel the religious exemption granted by the current rule.  If RFRA requires this exemption, the Departments did not act in an arbitrary and capricious manner in granting it.  And in my judgment, RFRA compels an exemption for the Little Sisters and any other employer with a similar objection to what has been called the accommodation to the contraceptive mandate.

															I

															Because the contraceptive mandate has been repeatedly modified, a brief recapitulation of this history may be helpful.  The ACA itself did not require that insurance plans include coverage for contraceptives.  Instead, the Act provided that plans must cover those preventive services found to be appropriate by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services.

42 U. S. C. §300gg–13(a)(4).  In 2011, HRSA recommended that plans be required to cover “ ‘[a]ll . . . contraceptive methods’ ” approved by the Food and Drug Administration.  77 Fed. Reg. 8725 (2012).  (I will use the term “contraceptive mandate” or simply “mandate” to refer to the obligation to provide coverage for contraceptives under any of the various regimes that have existed since the promulgation of this original rule.)  At the direction of the relevant Departments, HRSA simultaneously created an exemption from the mandate for “churches, their integrated auxiliaries, and conventions or associations of churches,” as well as “the exclusively religious activities of any religious order.”  76 Fed. Reg. 46623 (2011); see 77 Fed. Reg. 8726. (I will call this the “church exemption.”)  This narrow exemption was met with strong objections on the ground that it furnished insufficient protection for religious groups opposed to the use of some or all of the listed contraceptives.

															The Departments responded by issuing a new regulation that created an accommodation for certain religious non-profit employers.  See 78 Fed. Reg. 39892–39898 (2013).  (I will call this the “accommodation.”)  Under this accommodation, a covered employer could certify its objection to its insurer (or, if its plan was self-funded, to its third-party plan administrator), and the insurer or third-party administrator would then proceed to provide contraceptive coverage to the objecting entity’s employees.  Unlike the earlier church exemption, the accommodation did not exempt these religious employers from the contraceptive mandate, but the Departments construed invocation of the accommodation as compliance with the mandate.

															Meanwhile, the contraceptive mandate was challenged by various employers who had religious objections to providing coverage for at least some of the listed contraceptives but were not covered by the church exemption or the accommodation.  In Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc.,

573 U.S. 682 (2014), we held that RFRA prohibited the application of the regulation to closely held, for-profit corporations that fell into this category.  The Departments responded by issuing a new regulation that attempted to codify our holding by allowing closely-held corporations to utilize the accommodation.  See 80 Fed. Reg. 41343–41347 (2015).[2]

															Although this modification solved one RFRA problem, the contraceptive mandate was still objectionable to some religious employers, including the Little Sisters.  We considered those objections in Zubik v. Burwell, 578 U. S. ___ (2016) (per curiam), but instead of resolving the legal dispute, we vacated the decisions below and remanded, instructing the parties to attempt to come to an agreement.  Unfortunately, after strenuous efforts, the outgoing administration reported on January 9, 2017, that no reconciliation could be reached.[3]  The Little Sisters and other employers objected to engaging in any conduct that had the effect of making contraceptives available to their employees under their insurance plans, and no way of providing such coverage to their employees without using their plans could be found.

															 

															In 2017, the new administration took up the task of attempting to find a solution.  After receiving more than 56,000 comments, it issued the rule now before us, which made the church exemption available to non-governmental employers who object to the provision of some or all contraceptive services based on sincerely held religious beliefs.[4]  45 CFR §147.132 (2019); see 83 Fed. Reg. 57540, 57590.  (The “religious exemption.”)  The Court of Appeals, as noted, held that RFRA did not require this new rule.

															II

															A

															RFRA broadly prohibits the Federal Government from violating religious liberty.  See

42 U. S. C. §2000bb–1(a).  It applies to every “branch, department, agency, [and] instrumentality” of the Federal Government, as well as any “person acting under the color of ” federal law.  §2000bb–2(1).  And this prohibition applies to the “implementation” of federal law.  §2000bb–3(a).  Thus, unless the ACA or some other subsequently enacted statute made RFRA inapplicable to the contraceptive mandate, the Departments responsible for administering that mandate are obligated to do so in a manner that complies with RFRA.

															No provision of the ACA abrogates RFRA, and our decision in Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 736, established that application of the contraceptive mandate must conform to RFRA’s demands.  Thus, it was incumbent on the Departments to ensure that the rules implementing the mandate were consistent with RFRA, as interpreted in our decision.

															B

															Under RFRA, the Federal Government may not “substantially burden a person’s exercise of religion even if the burden results from a rule of general applicability,” unless it “demonstrates that application of the burden to the person—(1) is in furtherance of a compelling governmental interest; and (2) is the least restrictive means of furthering that compelling governmental interest.”  §§2000bb–1(a)–(b).  Applying RFRA to the contraceptive mandate thus presents three questions.  First, would the mandate substantially burden an employer’s exercise of religion?  Second, if the mandate would impose such a burden, would it nevertheless serve a “compelling interest”?  And third, if it serves such an interest, would it represent “the least restrictive means of furthering” that interest?

															Substantial burden.  Under our decision in Hobby Lobby, requiring the Little Sisters or any other employer with a similar religious objection to comply with the mandate would impose a substantial burden.  Our analysis of this question in Hobby Lobby can be separated into two parts.  First, would non-compliance have substantial adverse practical consequences?  573 U. S., at 720–723.  Second, would compliance cause the objecting party to violate its religious beliefs, as it sincerely understands them?  Id., at 723–726.

															The answer to the first question is indisputable.  If a covered employer does not comply with the mandate (by providing contraceptive coverage or invoking the accommodation), it faces penalties of $100 per day for each of its employees.

26 U. S. C. §4980D(b)(1).  “And if the employer decides to stop providing health insurance altogether and at least one full-time employee enrolls in a health plan and qualifies for a subsidy on one of the government-run ACA exchanges, the employer must pay $2,000 per year for each of its full-time employees.  §§4980H(a), (c)(1).”  573 U. S., at 697.  In Hobby Lobby, we found these “severe” financial consequences sufficient to show that the practical effect of non-compliance would be “substantial.”[5]  Id., at 720.

															Our answer to the second question was also perfectly clear.  If an employer has a religious objection to the use of a covered contraceptive, and if the employer has a sincere religious belief that compliance with the mandate makes it complicit in that conduct, then RFRA requires that the belief be honored.  Id., at 724–725.  We noted that the objection raised by the employers in Hobby Lobby “implicate[d] a difficult and important question of religion and moral philosophy, namely, the circumstances under which it is wrong for a person to perform an act that is innocent in itself but that has the effect of enabling or facilitating the commission of an immoral act by another.”  Id., at 724.  We noted that different individuals have different beliefs on this question, but we were clear that “federal courts have no business addressing . . . whether the religious belief asserted in a RFRA case is reasonable.”  Ibid.  Instead, the “function” of a court is “ ‘narrow’ ”: “ ‘to determine’ whether the line drawn reflects ‘an honest conviction.’ ”  Id., at 725 (quoting Thomas v. Review Bd. of Ind. Employment Security Div.,

450 U.S. 707, 716 (1981)).

															Applying this holding to the Little Sisters yields an obvious answer.  It is undisputed that the Little Sisters have a sincere religious objection to the use of contraceptives and that they also have a sincere religious belief that utilizing the accommodation would make them complicit in this conduct.  As in Hobby Lobby, “it is not for us to say that their religious beliefs are mistaken or insubstantial.”  573 U. S., at 725.

															In reaching a contrary conclusion, the Court of Appeals adopted the reasoning of a prior Third Circuit decision holding that “ ‘the submission of the self-certification form’ ” required by the mandate would not “ ‘trigger or facilitate the provision of contraceptive coverage’ ” and would not make the Little Sisters “ ‘ “complicit” in the provision’ ” of objected-to services.  930 F.3d 543, 573 (2019) (quoting Geneva College v. Secretary of U. S. Dept. of Health and Human Servs., 778 F.3d 422, 437–438 (CA3 2015), vacated and remanded sub nom. Zubik, 578 U. S. ___).

															The position taken by the Third Circuit was similar to that of the Government when Zubik was before us.  Opposing the position taken by the Little Sisters and others, the Government argued that what the accommodation required was not materially different from simply asking that an objecting party opt out of providing contraceptive coverage with the knowledge that by doing so it would cause a third party to provide that coverage.  According to the Government, everything that occurred following the opt-out was a result of governmental action.[6]

															Petitioners disagreed.  Their concern was not with notifying the Government that they wished to be exempted from complying with the mandate per se,[7] but they objected to two requirements that they sincerely believe would make them complicit in conduct they find immoral.  First, they took strong exception to the requirement that they maintain and pay for a plan under which coverage for contraceptives would be provided.  As they explained, if they “were willing to incur ruinous penalties by dropping their health plans, their insurance companies would have no authority or obligation to provide or procure the objectionable coverage for [their] plan beneficiaries.”[8]  Second, they also objected to submission of the self-certification form required by the accommodation because without that certification their plan could not be used to provide contraceptive coverage.[9]  At bottom, then, the Government and the religious objectors disagreed about the relationship between what the accommodation demanded and the provision of contraceptive coverage.

															Our remand in Zubik put these two conflicting interpretations to the test.  In response to our request for supplemental briefing, petitioners explained their position in the following terms.  “[T]heir religious exercise” would not be “infringed” if they did not have to do anything “ ‘more than contract for a plan that does not include coverage for some or all forms of contraception,’ even if their employees receive[d] cost-free contraceptive coverage from the same insurance company.”  578 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 3).  At the time, the Government thought that it might be possible to achieve this result under the ACA, ibid., but subsequent attempts to find a way to do this failed.  After great effort, the Government was forced to conclude that it was “not aware of the authority, or of a practical mechanism,” for providing contraceptive coverage “specifically to persons covered by an objecting employer, other than by using the employer’s plan, issuer, or third party administrator.”  83 Fed. Reg. 57545–57546.

															The inescapable bottom line is that the accommodation demanded that parties like the Little Sisters engage in conduct that was a necessary cause of the ultimate conduct to which they had strong religious objections.  Their situation was the same as that of the conscientious objector in Thomas, 450 U. S., at 715, who refused to participate in the manufacture of tanks but did not object to assisting in the production of steel used to make the tanks.  Where to draw the line in a chain of causation that leads to objectionable conduct is a difficult moral question, and our cases have made it clear that courts cannot override the sincere religious beliefs of an objecting party on that question.  See Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 723–726; Thomas, 450 U. S., at 715–716.

															For these reasons, the contraceptive mandate imposes a substantial burden on any employer who, like the Little Sisters, has a sincere religious objection to the use of a listed contraceptive and a sincere religious belief that compliance with the mandate (through the accommodation or otherwise) makes it complicit in the provision to the employer’s workers of a contraceptive to which the employer has a religious objection.

															Compelling interest.  In Hobby Lobby, the Government asserted and we assumed for the sake of argument that the Government had a compelling interest in “ensuring that all women have access to all FDA-approved contraceptives without cost sharing.”  573 U. S., at 727.  Now, the Government concedes that it lacks a compelling interest in providing such access, Reply Brief in No. 19–454, p. 10, and this time, the Government is correct.

															In order to show that it has a “compelling interest” within the meaning of RFRA, the Government must clear a high bar.  In Sherbert v. Verner,

374 U.S. 398 (1963), the decision that provides the foundation for the rule codified in RFRA, we said that “ ‘[o]nly the gravest abuses, endangering paramount interest’ ” could “ ‘give occasion for [a] permissible limitation’ ” on the free exercise of religion.  Id., at 406.  Thus, in order to establish that it has a “compelling interest” in providing free contraceptives to all women, the Government would have to show that it would commit one of “the gravest abuses” of its responsibilities if it did not furnish free contraceptives to all women.

															If we were required to exercise our own judgment on the question whether the Government has an obligation to provide free contraceptives to all women, we would have to take sides in the great national debate about whether the Government should provide free and comprehensive medical care for all.  Entering that policy debate would be inconsistent with our proper role, and RFRA does not call on us to express a view on that issue.  We can answer the compelling interest question simply by asking whether Congress has treated the provision of free contraceptives to all women as a compelling interest.

															“ ‘[A] law cannot be regarded as protecting an interest “of the highest order” . . . when it leaves appreciable damage to that supposedly vital interest unprohibited.’ ”  Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah,

508 U.S. 520, 547 (1993).  Thus, in considering whether Congress has manifested the view that it has a compelling interest in providing free contraceptives to all women, we must take into account “exceptions” to this asserted “ ‘rule of general applicability.’ ”  Gonzales v. O Centro Espírita Beneficente União do Vegetal,

546 U.S. 418, 436 (2006) (quoting §2000bb–1(a)).  And here, there are exceptions aplenty.  The ACA—which fails to ensure that millions of women have access to free contraceptives—unmistakably shows that Congress, at least to date, has not regarded this interest as compelling.

															First, the ACA does not provide contraceptive coverage for women who do not work outside the home.  If Congress thought that there was a compelling need to make free contraceptives available for all women, why did it make no provision for women who do not receive a paycheck?  Some of these women may have a greater need for free contraceptives than do women in the work force.

															Second, if Congress thought that there was a compelling need to provide cost-free contraceptives for all working women, why didn’t Congress mandate that coverage in the ACA itself?  Why did it leave it to HRSA to decide whether to require such coverage at all?

															Third, the ACA’s very incomplete coverage speaks volumes.  The ACA “exempts a great many employers from most of its coverage requirements.”  Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 699.  “[E]mployers with fewer than 50 employees are not required to provide” any form of health insurance, and a number of large employers with “ ‘grandfathered’ ” plans need not comply with the contraceptive mandate.  Ibid.; see

26 U. S. C. §4980H(c)(2);

42 U. S. C. §18011.  According to a recent survey, 13% of the 153 million Americans with employer-sponsored health insurance are enrolled in a grandfathered plan, while only 56% of small firms provide health insurance.  Kaiser Family Foundation, Employer Health Benefits: 2019 Annual Survey 7, 44, 209 (2019).  In Hobby Lobby, we wrote that “the contraceptive mandate ‘presently does not apply to tens of millions of people,’ ” 573 U. S., at 700, and it appears that this is still true apart from the religious exemption.[10]

															Fourth, the Court’s recognition in today’s decision that the ACA authorizes the creation of exemptions that go beyond anything required by the Constitution provides further evidence that Congress did not regard the provision of cost-free contraceptives to all women as a compelling interest.

															Moreover, the regulatory exemptions created by the Departments and HRSA undermine any claim that the agencies themselves viewed the provision of contraceptive coverage as sufficiently compelling.  From the outset, the church exemption has applied to churches, their integrated auxiliaries, and associations.  76 Fed. Reg. 46623.  And because of the way the accommodation operates under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the Departments treated a number of self-insured non-profit organizations established by churches or associations of churches, including religious universities and hospitals, as “effectively exempted” from the contraceptive mandate as well.  Brief for Petitioners in No. 19–454, p. 4.  The result was a complex and sometimes irrational pattern of exemptions.

															The dissent frames the allegedly compelling interest served by the mandate in different terms—as an interest in providing “seamless” cost-free coverage, post, at 1, 14, 21 (opinion of Ginsburg, J.)––but this is an even weaker argument.  What “seamless” coverage apparently means is coverage under the insurance plan furnished by a woman’s employer.  So as applied to the Little Sisters, the dissent thinks that it would be a grave abuse if an employee wishing to obtain contraceptives had to take any step that would not be necessary if she wanted to obtain any other medical service.  See post, at 16–17.  Apparently, it would not be enough if the Government sent her a special card that could be presented at a pharmacy to fill a prescription for contraceptives without any out-of-pocket expense.  Nor would it be enough if she were informed that she could obtain free contraceptives by going to a conveniently located government clinic.  Neither of those alternatives would provide “seamless coverage,” and thus, according to the dissent, both would be insufficient.  Nothing short of capitulation on the part of the Little Sisters would suffice.

															This argument is inconsistent with any reasonable understanding of the concept of a “compelling interest.”  It is undoubtedly convenient for employees to obtain all types of medical care and all pharmaceuticals under their general health insurance plans, and perhaps there are women whose personal situation is such that taking any additional steps to secure contraceptives would be a notable burden.  But can it be said that all women or all working women have a compelling need for this convenience?

															The ACA does not provide “seamless” coverage for all forms of medical care.  Take the example of dental care.  Although lack of dental care can cause great pain and may lead to serious health problems, the ACA does not require that a plan cover dental services.  Millions of employees must secure separate dental insurance or pay dentist bills out of their own pockets.

															In short, it is undoubtedly true that the contraceptive mandate provides a benefit that many women may find highly desirable, but Congress’s enactments show that it has not regarded the provision of free contraceptives or the furnishing of “seamless” coverage as “compelling.”

															Least restrictive means.  Even if the mandate served a compelling interest, the accommodation still would not satisfy the “exceptionally demanding” least-restrictive-means standard.  Hobby Lobby, 573 U. S., at 728.  To meet this standard, the Government must “sho[w] that it lacks other means of achieving its desired goal without imposing a substantial burden on the exercise of religion.”  Ibid.; see also Holt v. Hobbs,

574 U.S. 352, 365 (2015) (“ ‘[I]f a less restrictive means is available for the Government to achieve its goals, the Government must use it’ ”).

															In Hobby Lobby, we observed that the Government has “other means” of providing cost-free contraceptives to women “without imposing a substantial burden on the exercise of religion by the objecting parties.”  573 U. S., at 728. “The most straightforward way,” we noted, “would be for the Government to assume the cost of providing the . . . contraceptives . . . to any women who are unable to obtain them under their health-insurance policies.”  Ibid.  In the context of federal funding for health insurance, the cost of such a program would be “minor.”  Id., at 729.[11]

															The Government argued that we should not take this option into account because it lacked statutory authority to create such a program, see ibid., but we rejected that argument, id., at 729–730.  Certainly, Congress could create such a program if it thought that providing cost-free contraceptives to all women was a matter of “paramount” concern.

															As the Government now points out, Congress has taken steps in this direction.  “[E]xisting federal, state, and local programs,” including Medicaid, Title X, and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, already “provide free or subsidized contraceptives to low-income women.”  Brief for Petitioners in No. 19–454, at 27; see also 83 Fed. Reg. 57548, 57551 (discussing programs).[12]  And many women who work for employers who have religious objections to the contraceptive mandate may be able to receive contraceptive coverage through a family member’s health insurance plan.

															In sum, the Departments were right to conclude that applying the accommodation to sincere religious objectors violates RFRA.  See id., at 57546.  All three prongs of the RFRA analysis—substantial burden, compelling interest, and least restrictive means—necessitate this answer.

															III

															Once it was apparent that the accommodation ran afoul of RFRA, the Government was required to eliminate the violation.  RFRA does not specify the precise manner in which a violation must be remedied; it simply instructs the Government to avoid “substantially burden[ing]” the “exercise of religion”—i.e., to eliminate the violation.  §2000bb–1(a); see also §2000bb–1(c) (providing for “appropriate relief ” in judicial suit).  Thus, in Hobby Lobby, once we held that application of the mandate to the objecting parties violated RFRA, we left it to the Departments to decide how best to rectify this problem.  See 573 U. S., at 736; 79 Fed. Reg. 51118 (2014) (proposing to modify the accommodation to extend it to closely held corporations in light of Hobby Lobby); 80 Fed. Reg. 41324 (final rule explaining that “[t]he Departments believe that the definition adopted in these regulations complies with and goes beyond what is required by RFRA and Hobby Lobby”).

															The same principle applies here.  Once it is recognized that the prior accommodation violated RFRA in some of its applications, it was incumbent on the Departments to eliminate those violations, and they had discretion in crafting what they regarded as the best solution.

															The solution they devised cures the problem, and it is not clear that any narrower exemption would have been sufficient with respect to parties with religious objections to the accommodation.  As noted, after great effort, the Government concluded that it was not possible to solve the problem without using an “employer’s plan, issuer, or third party administrator.”  83 Fed. Reg. 57546.  As a result, the Departments turned to the current rule, under which an objecting party must certify that it “objects, based on its sincerely held religious beliefs, to its establishing, maintaining, providing, offering, or arranging for (as applicable)” either “[c]overage or payments for some or all contraceptive services” or “[a] plan, issuer, or third party administrator that provides or arranges such coverage or payments.”  45 CFR §§147.132(a)(2)(i)–(ii).

															The States take exception to the new religious rule on several grounds.  First, they complain that it grants an exemption to some employers who were satisfied with the prior accommodation, but there is little basis for this argument.  An employer who is satisfied with the accommodation may continue to operate under that regime.  See §§147.131(c)–(d); 83 Fed. Reg. 57569–57571.  And unless an employer has a religious objection to the accommodation, it is unclear why an employer would give it up.  The accommodation does not impose any cost on an employer, and it provides an added benefit for the employer’s work force.

															The States also object to the new rule because it makes exemptions available to publicly traded corporations, but the Government is “not aware” of any publicly traded corporations that object to compliance with the mandate.  Id., at 57562.  For all practical purposes, therefore, it is not clear that the new rule’s provisions concerning entities that object to the mandate on religious grounds go any further than necessary to bring the mandate into compliance with RFRA.

															In any event, while RFRA requires the Government to employ the least restrictive means of furthering a compelling interest that burdens religious belief, it does not require the converse—that an accommodation of religious belief be narrowly tailored to further a compelling interest.  The latter approach, which is advocated by the States, gets RFRA entirely backwards.  See Brief for Respondents 45 (“RFRA could require the religious exemption only if it was the least restrictive means of furthering [the Government’s compelling interest]”).  Nothing in RFRA requires that a violation be remedied by the narrowest permissible corrective.

															Needless to say, the remedy for a RFRA problem cannot violate the Constitution, but the new rule does not have that effect.  The Court has held that there is a constitutional right to purchase and use contraceptives.  Griswold v. Connecticut,

381 U.S. 479 (1965); Carey v. Population Services Int’l,

431 U.S. 678 (1977).  But the Court has never held that there is a constitutional right to free contraceptives.

															The dissent and the court below suggest that the new rule is improper because it imposes burdens on the employees of entities that the rule exempts, see post, at 14–17; 930 F. 3d, at 573–574,[13] but the rule imposes no such burden.  A woman who does not have the benefit of contraceptive coverage under her employer’s plan is not the victim of a burden imposed by the rule or her employer.  She is simply not the beneficiary of something that federal law does not provide.  She is in the same position as a woman who does not work outside the home or a woman whose health insurance is provided by a grandfathered plan that does not pay for contraceptives or a woman who works for a small business that may not provide any health insurance at all.

															*  *  *

															I would hold not only that it was appropriate for the Departments to consider RFRA, but also that the Departments were required by RFRA to create the religious exemption (or something very close to it).  I would bring the Little Sisters’ legal odyssey to an end.
Notes
1
 The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), a division of the Department of Health and Human Services, creates the “comprehensive guidelines” on “coverage” for “additional preventive care and screenings” for women,

42 U. S. C. §300gg–13(a)(4), but the statute is jointly administered and enforced by the Departments of Health and Human Services, Labor, and Treasury (collectively Departments), see §300gg–92;

29 U. S. C. §1191c;

26 U. S. C. §9833.  The Departments promulgated the exemptions at issue here, which were subsequently incorporated into the guidelines by HRSA.  See 83 Fed. Reg. 57536 (2018); id., at 57592. 

2
 In the regulation, the Departments also responded to our holding in Wheaton College v. Burwell,

573 U.S. 958 (2014), by allowing employers who invoked the accommodation to notify the Government of their objection, rather than filing the objection with their insurer or third-party administrator.  See 80 Fed. Reg. 41337. 

3
 Dept. of Labor, FAQs About Affordable Care Act Implementation Part 36 (Jan. 9, 2017), https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/EBSA/about-ebsa/our-activities/resource-center/faqs/aca-part-36.pdf. 

4
 A similar exemption was provided for employers with moral objections.  See 45 CFR §147.33. 

5
 This is one of the differences between these cases and Bowen v. Roy,

476 U.S. 693 (1986).  See post, at 18–19 (opinion of Ginsburg, J.) (relying on Bowen to conclude that accommodation was unnecessary).  In Bowen, the objecting individuals were not faced with penalties or “coerced by the Governmen[t] into violating their religious beliefs.”  Lyng v. Northwest Indian Cemetery Protective Assn.,

485 U.S. 439, 449 (1988). 

6
 See Brief for Respondents in Zubik v. Burwell, O. T. 2015, Nos. 14–1418, 14–1453, 14–1505, 15–35, 15–105, 15–119, 15–191, pp. 35–41. 

7
 See Brief for Petitioners in Zubik v. Burwell, O. T. 2015, Nos. 15–35, 15–105, 15–119, 15–191, p. 45. 

8
 Brief for Petitioners in Zubik v. Burwell, O. T. 2015, Nos. 14–1418, 14–1453, 14–1505, p. 49. 

9
 Brief for Petitioners in Zubik, O. T. 2015, Nos. 15–35, 15–105, 15–119, 15–191, at 44. 

10
 In contrast, the Departments estimated that plans covering 727,000 people would take advantage of the religious exemption, and thus that between 70,500 and 126,400 women of childbearing age would be affected by the religious exemption.  83 Fed. Reg. 57578, 57581. 

11
 In 2019, the Government is estimated to have spent $737 billion subsidizing health insurance for individuals under the age of 65; $287 billion of that went to employment-related coverage.  CBO, Federal Subsidies for Health Insurance for People Under Age 65: 2019 to 2029, pp. 15–16 (2019).  While the cost of contraceptive methods varies, even assuming the most expensive options, which range around $1,000 a year, the cost of providing this coverage to the 126,400 women who are estimated to be impacted by the religious exemption would be $126.4 million.  See Kosova, National Women’s Health Network, How Much Do Different Kinds of Birth Control Cost Without Insurance? (Nov. 17, 2017), http://nwhn.org /much-different-kinds-birth-control-cost-without-insurance/ (discussing contraceptive methods ranging from $240 to $1,000 per year); 83 Fed. Reg. 57581 (estimating that up to 126,400 women will be affected by the religious exemption). 

12
 The Government recently amended the definitions for Title X’s family planning program to help facilitate access to contraceptives for women who work for an employer invoking the religious and moral exemptions.  See 84 Fed. Reg. 7734 (2019).  These definitions now provide that “for the purpose of considering payment for contraceptive services only,” a “low income family” “includes members of families whose annual income” would otherwise exceed the threshold “where a woman has health insurance coverage through an employer . . . [with] a sincerely held religious or moral objection to providing such [contraceptive] coverage.”  42 CFR §59.2(2). 

13
 Both the dissent and the court below refer to the statement in Cutter v. Wilkinson,

544 U.S. 709, 720 (2005), that “courts must take adequate account of the burdens a requested accommodation may impose on nonbeneficiaries,” but that statement was made in response to the argument that RFRA’s twin, the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act,

42 U. S. C. §2000cc et seq., violated the Establishment Clause.  The only case cited by Cutter in connection with this statement, Estate of Thornton v. Caldor, Inc., 
472 U.S. 703 (1985), involved a religious accommodation that the Court held violated the Establishment Clause.  Before this Court, the States do not argue––and there is no basis for an argument—that the new rule violates that Clause. 


