::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-021
::decision_cite:: 19-416
::decision_name::  Nestlé USA, Inc. v. Doe
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–416 and 19–453

															_________________

															NESTLE USA, INC., PETITIONER

															19–416v.

															JOHN DOE I, et al.

															

															CARGILL, INC., PETITIONER

															19–453v.

															JOHN DOE I, et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 17, 2021]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Kagan join, concurring in part and concurring in the judgment.

															I join Parts I and II of the Court’s opinion.  Because respondents have failed to allege a domestic application of the Alien Tort Statute (ATS), their complaint must be dismissed.  I do not, however, join Justice Thomas’ alternative path to that disposition, which would overrule Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain,

542 U.S. 692 (2004), in all but name.  The First Congress enacted the ATS to ensure that federal courts are available to foreign citizens who suffer international law violations for which other nations may expect the United States to provide a forum for redress.  Justice Thomas would limit the ATS’ reach to only the three international law torts that were recognized in 1789.  That reading contravenes both this Court’s express holding in Sosa and the text and history of the ATS.

															I

															A

															Included in the Judiciary Act of 1789, the ATS gave federal courts “cognizance . . . of all causes where an alien sues for a tort only in violation of the law of nations or a treaty of the United States.”  Act of Sept. 24, 1789, §9,

1Stat.
77.  The ATS does not list the torts that fall within its purview.  Rather, the statute was “ ‘enacted on the understanding that [federal] common law would provide a cause of action for [a] modest number of international law violations.’ ”  Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co.,

569 U.S. 108, 115 (2013) (quoting Sosa, 542 U. S., at 724; some alterations in original).  Three such torts were “probably on minds of the men who drafted the ATS”: “violation of safe conducts, infringement of the rights of ambassadors, and piracy.”  Id., at 715 (citing 4 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 68 (1769)).

															Unsurprisingly, the domestic and international legal landscape has changed in the two centuries since Congress enacted the ATS.  On the one hand, this Court in Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,

304 U.S. 64 (1938), “denied the existence of any federal ‘general’ common law.”  Sosa, 542 U. S., at 726 (quoting 304 U. S., at 78).  Erie thus foiled the First Congress’ expectation “that the common law would,” of its own accord, “provide a cause of action for the modest number of international law violations,” 542 U. S., at 724, that qualify as “tort[s] . . . in violation of the law of nations,”

28 U. S. C. §1350.  On the other hand, the class of law-of-nations torts has grown “with the evolving recognition . . . that certain acts constituting crimes against humanity are in violation of basic precepts of international law.”  Jesner v. Arab Bank, PLC, 584 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 9).  Like the pirates of the 18th century, today’s torturers, slave traders, and perpetrators of genocide are “ ‘hostis humani generis, an enemy of all mankind.’ ”  Sosa, 542 U. S., at 732.

															The Court reconciled these two legal developments in Sosa v. Alvarez-Machain.  There, the Court explained that it would “be unreasonable to assume that the First Congress would have expected federal courts to lose all capacity to recognize enforceable international norms simply because the common law might lose some metaphysical cachet” in a post-Erie world.  542 U. S., at 730.  Indeed, while Erie rejected the notion of a general federal common law, the “post-Erie understanding has identified limited enclaves in which federal courts may derive some substantive law in a common law way.”  542 U. S., at 729.  For over 200 years (both before and after Erie), courts have adhered to the principle that “the domestic law of the United States recognizes the law of nations.”[1]  542 U. S., at 729.

															While Sosa refused to “close the door” to “judicial recognition of actionable international norms,” it remains “subject to vigilant doorkeeping.”  Ibid. Sosa explained that “courts should require any claim based on the present-day law of nations to rest on a norm of international character accepted by the civilized world and defined with a specificity comparable to the features of the 18th-century paradigms” contemplated by the First Congress (i.e., norms regarding safe conducts, the rights of ambassadors, and piracy).  Id., at 725.  The Court elaborated that “the determination whether a norm is sufficiently definite to support a cause of action should (and, indeed, inevitably must) involve an element of judgment about the practical consequences of making that cause available to litigants in the federal courts.”  Id., at 732–733 (footnote omitted).

															In the years since, this Court has read Sosa to announce a two-step test for recognizing the availability of a cause of action under the ATS.  Courts first ask “whether a plaintiff can demonstrate that the alleged violation is ‘of a norm that is specific, universal, and obligatory.’ ”  Jesner, 584 U. S., at  ___–___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 11–12) (quoting Sosa, 542 U. S., at 732).  If so, then “it must be determined further whether allowing [a] case to proceed under the ATS is a proper exercise of judicial discretion.”  Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12).

															B

															Justice Thomas reads Sosa and this Court’s subsequent precedents to impose an “extraordinarily strict” standard at Sosa’s second step.  Ante, at 8.  If a court “can identify even one ‘sound reaso[n]’ ” to think Congress might doubt the need for a cause of action under the ATS, we are told, the court should refuse to recognize it.  Ibid. (quoting Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (majority opinion) (slip op., at 18); some internal quotation marks omitted).

															The trouble with Justice Thomas’ test is that it is unmoored from both history and precedent.  The ATS was a statute born of necessity.  In the early days of the Republic, the “Continental Congress was hamstrung by its inability” under the Articles of Confederation “to ‘cause infractions of treaties, or of the law of nations to be punished.’ ”  Sosa, 542 U. S., at 716 (quoting J. Madison, Journal of the Constitutional Convention 60 (E. Scott ed. 1893)).  The United States’ failure to redress such offenses “caused substantial foreign-relations problems,” Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7), and “threaten[ed] serious consequences in international affairs,” Sosa, 542 U. S., at 715.  On more than one occasion (and in no uncertain terms), foreign powers expressed their displeasure with the United States’ failure to provide redress for law-of-nations violations against their citizens.[2]  See Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7); see also Kiobel, 569 U. S., at 120; Sosa, 542 U. S., at 716–717, and n. 11.  Congress’ “principal objective” in establishing federal jurisdiction over such torts, therefore, “was to avoid foreign entanglements by ensuring the availability of a federal forum where the failure to provide one might cause another nation to hold the United States responsible for an injury to a foreign citizen.”  Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 8–9).

															As this Court explained in Sosa, “[t]he anxieties of the preconstitutional period cannot be ignored easily enough to think that the [ATS] was not meant to have a practical effect.’ ”  542 U. S., at 719.  It was Congress’ assessment that diplomatic strife is best avoided by providing a federal forum to redress those law-of-nations torts that, if not remedied, could bring international opprobrium upon the United States.  Because the First Congress did not pass “the ATS only to leave it lying fallow indefinitely,” the statute “is best read as having been enacted on the understanding that the common law would provide a cause of action” for widely recognized torts in violation of the law of nations.  Id., at 719, 724; see also Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8) (“[T]he [ATS] was not enacted to sit on a shelf awaiting further legislation”).  In other words, from the moment the ATS became law, Congress expected federal courts to identify actionable torts under international law and to provide injured plaintiffs with a forum to seek redress.

															That historical fact must guide jurists when determining “whether allowing [a] case to proceed under the ATS is a proper exercise of judicial discretion.”  Id., at ___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 12).  Justice Thomas suggests that courts may recognize a cause of action under the ATS only “in very limited circumstances,” if at all.  Ante, at 5.  But the ATS calls for much more.  The First Congress made the legislative determination that a remedy should be available under the ATS to foreign citizens who suffer “tort[s] . . . in violation of the law of nations.”

28 U. S. C. §1350.  Barring some extraordinary collateral consequence that could not have been foreseen by Congress, federal courts should not, under the guise of judicial discretion, second-guess that legislative decision.

															Justice Thomas therefore errs in asserting that courts “plac[e] great stress on the separation of powers” when they recognize causes of action under the ATS.  Ante, at 7.  That would be news to the First Congress, which from the beginning counted on federal courts to “recognize enforceable international norms” in order to give the ATS “practical effect.”  Sosa, 542 U. S., at 719, 730.  To now suggest that identifying actionable torts “risks ‘upset[ting] the careful balance of interests struck by the lawmakers’ ” is ahistorical at best.  Ante, at 8 (quoting Hernández v. Mesa, 589 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 5); brackets in original).

															Indeed, one need look no further than the text of the ATS to understand the task that the First Congress assigned to the Federal Judiciary.  As originally enacted, the ATS gave federal courts “cognizance . . . of all causes where an alien sues for a tort only in violation of the law of nations or a treaty of the United States.”  §9,

1Stat.
77.  Congress did not need to legislate those “causes” into existence because international law supplied the substantive contours of actionable torts, and domestic law indisputably incorporated international law.  See Sosa, 542 U. S., at 729.  Neither of those premises changed after Erie.  Justice Thomas thus misconceives the judicial task in asking whether courts may “create” causes of action under the ATS.  Ante, at 6; see also post, at 4–5 (Gorsuch, J., concurring).  The assignment is much more modest: Courts must, based on their interpretation of international law, identify those norms that are so specific, universal, and obligatory that they give rise to a “tort” for which Congress expects federal courts to entertain “causes”—or, in modern parlance, “civil action[s],”

28 U. S. C. §1350—for redress.

															Implicitly acknowledging his departure from Sosa, Justice Thomas argues that “precedents since Sosa have substantially narrowed the circumstances in which ‘judicial discretion’ ” to recognize ATS causes of action “is permitted.”  Ante, at 11.  But the case on which he principally relies, Hernández v. Mesa, 589 U. S. ___, is wholly inapposite.  Hernández cautions that “finding that a damages remedy is implied by a provision that makes no reference to that remedy may upset the careful balance of interests struck by the lawmakers.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  The ATS, however, is not a statute that “makes no reference to [a] remedy.”  Ibid.  Just the opposite: The ATS expressly contemplates that federal courts will hear “civil action[s]” for “tort[s] . . . committed in violation of the law of nations.”

28 U. S. C. §1350.  As such, “a federal court’s authority to recognize a damages remedy” under the ATS very much “rest[s] at bottom on a statute enacted by Congress.”[3]  Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  Respect for the separation of powers is hardly served by refusing a legislatively assigned task.

															II

															Applying the wrong standard at Sosa’s second step, Justice Thomas reaches the wrong answer.  He announces that, except for “the three historical torts likely on the mind of the First Congress,” “there always is a sound reason” for courts to refuse to recognize actionable torts under the ATS.[4]  Ante, at 11.  He offers three reasons for this dramatic curtailment of the ATS.  None is persuasive.

															First, Justice Thomas argues that “creating a cause of action to enforce international law beyond three historical torts invariably gives rise to foreign-policy concerns.”  Ante, at 9.  He offers no meaningful support for that sweeping assertion, nor does he explain why an ATS suit for the tort of piracy, for example, would categorically present fewer foreign-policy concerns than a suit for aiding and abetting child slavery.  That said, Justice Thomas is correct insofar as he observes that, in some subset of cases, the diplomatic costs of allowing an ATS suit to proceed may outweigh the benefits of providing redress to an injured foreign citizen.  “[W]hen international friction” does arise, however, “a court should respond with the doctrine that speaks directly to the friction’s source.”  Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (Sotomayor, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 22).  Such tools include the presumption against extraterritoriality, limits on personal jurisdiction, case-by-case deference to the political branches, and the doctrines of exhaustion, forum non conveniens, and international comity.  See ibid.; Kiobel, 569 U. S., at 133 (Breyer, J., concurring in judgment); Sosa, 542 U. S., at 733, n. 21.  Ignoring all these options, Justice Thomas would instead bar any ATS suit that seeks to hold a defendant liable for violating any international norm that developed after the 18th century.  That is a gross overreaction to a manageable (and largely hypothetical) problem.

															Moreover, in arguing that ATS litigation “ ‘inherent[ly]’ raises ‘foreign-policy concerns,’ ” ante, at 9 (quoting Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (majority opinion) (slip op., at 19)), Justice Thomas ignores the other side of the equation: that foreign nations may take (and, indeed, historically have taken) umbrage at the United States’ refusal to provide redress to their citizens for international law torts committed by U. S. nationals within the United States.  See supra, at 4, and n. 2.  Closing the courthouse doors thus “gives rise to foreign-policy concerns” just as “invariably,” ante, at 9, as leaving them open.

															Second, Justice Thomas suggests that federal courts lack “the ‘institutional capacity’ to consider all factors relevant” to recognizing actionable torts under the ATS.  Ante, at 10; see also post, at 5–6 (opinion of Gorsuch, J.).  It would be surprising (and, I suspect, distressing) to the Congress that enacted the ATS to learn that federal courts lack institutional capacity to do the very thing the ATS presumes they will do.  Justice Thomas’ pessimism aside, there is no reason to doubt federal courts’ ability to identify those norms of international law that are sufficiently “ ‘specific, universal, and obligatory’ ” to give rise to a cause of action under the ATS.  Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 12) (quoting Sosa, 542 U. S., at 732).  After all, “[f]or two centuries” this Court has “affirmed that the domestic law of the United States recognizes the law of nations.”  Id., at 729.  There is nothing so mysterious about a law’s international origins that would prevent courts—bodies specifically tasked with, and particularly capable of, interpreting and applying laws—from ably adjudicating a suit for damages arising out of a “tort . . . committed in violation of the law of nations.”[5]

28 U. S. C. §1350.

															Finally, pointing to the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (TVPRA), Justice Thomas argues that Congress’ decision to impose criminal and civil liability on human traffickers indicates that “Congress might doubt” the wisdom of recognizing a cause of action for torts other than the violation of safe conducts, infringement of the rights of ambassadors, and piracy.  Ante, at 9.  It is hard to understand why that would be true.  That Congress has chosen to legislate against certain abhorrent conduct does not make that conduct any less tortious under international law.  Nor does it increase the likelihood that negative “practical consequences” will arise from allowing foreign citizens to hold defendants liable for their torts under the ATS.  Sosa, 542 U. S., at 732.  On the contrary, the fact that Congress authorized victims of slavery to sue perpetrators under the TVPRA provides strong evidence that Congress would not, in fact, doubt the efficacy of permitting victims of slavery to sue perpetrators under the ATS (insofar as the plaintiffs seek a domestic application of the statute).

															Justice Thomas replies that, because the TVPRA is not “a retroactive statute,” entertaining respondents’ suit would “impermissibly second-guess Congress’ decision not to subject past conduct to a new standard.”  Ante, at 10.  Surely Justice Thomas does not mean that the prohibition against child slavery is a “new standard.”  Nor is it tenable to argue that, at the time respondents were enslaved on Ivorian cocoa farms, international law permitted the aiding and abetting of forced labor.[6]  Perhaps Justice Thomas means to argue that, by adding a cause of action to the TVPRA in 2008, Congress implicitly foreclosed the availability of similar causes of action under the ATS.  But the legislative history says otherwise: The Conference Report that accompanied the original TVPRA took pains to emphasize “that nothing in [the TVPRA] will preclude trafficking victims from availing themselves of applicable State, local or other Federal laws in seeking compensatory or other damages and relief in any civil proceeding.”[7]  H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 106–939, p. 93 (2000).  At bottom, then, there is simply no basis to infer from “congressional activity,” ante, at 8, that Congress has by implication grafted a truncated list of actionable torts onto the ATS that appears nowhere in the statutory text.

															*  *  *

															The First Congress chose to provide noncitizens a federal forum to seek redress for law-of-nations violations, and it counted on federal courts to facilitate such suits by recognizing causes of action for violations of specific, universal, and obligatory norms of international law.  I would not abdicate the Court’s obligation to follow that legislative directive.  Because I find no support for Justice Thomas’ position in the ATS or in this Court’s precedents, I do not join that portion of Justice Thomas’ opinion.
Notes
1
 Other “enclaves” in which federal courts develop legal principles in a common-law fashion include, for example, the areas of admiralty law, disputes between States, and some aspects of federal labor law.  See Collins v. Virginia, 584 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 7). 

2
 Two “notorious episodes,” in particular, underscored Congress’ impotence.  Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co.,

569 U.S. 108, 120 (2013).  The first occurred in 1784 when a French adventurer assaulted the Secretary of the French Legation in Philadelphia, prompting the French Minister to complain to Congress “that a violation of the laws of Nations . . . hath been committed.”  27 Journals of the Continental Congress 478 (G. Hunt ed. 1928).  Three years later, a New York City constable created another diplomatic imbroglio by entering the home of the Dutch Ambassador and arresting one of his servants.  The Ambassador wrote to the Secretary of Foreign Affairs, calling the incident “a most notorious and direct violation of the rights of nations” and demanding the Secretary’s “official [interposition] . . . to obtain the satisfaction due . . . by virtue of the laws of nations.”  Letter from P. Van Berckel to J. Jay (Dec. 18, 1787), in 3 Dept. of State, The Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States of America 443 (1837) (hereinafter Diplomatic Correspondence) (brackets in original). 

3
 For similar reasons, Justice Thomas’ reliance on Ziglar v. Abbasi, 582 U. S. ___ (2017), is misplaced.  There, this Court explained that, “when deciding whether to recognize an implied cause of action, the ‘determinative’ question is one of statutory intent.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 9) (quoting Alexander v. Sandoval,

532 U.S. 275, 286 (2001)).  The ATS leaves no room to doubt that Congress intended foreign citizens to be able to bring “civil action[s]” for “tort[s] . . . committed in violation of the law of nations.”

28 U. S. C. §1350. 

4
 Notably, Justice Thomas’ alternative disposition would not answer the question this Court granted certiorari to address, i.e., whether domestic corporations are immune from suit under the ATS (regardless of the kind of torts for which they are sued).  See Pet. for Cert. in No. 19–416, at i; Pet. for Cert. in No. 19–453, at i.  For reasons similar to those articulated in my dissent in Jesner v. Arab Bank, PLC, 584 U. S. ___, ___ (2018), I would answer this question in the negative.  (So would four other Justices.)  As Justice Gorsuch ably explains, there is no reason to insulate domestic corporations from liability for law-of-nations violations simply because they are legal rather than natural persons.  See post, at 1–4 (concurring opinion). 

5
 While international law supplies the substantive prohibitions that give rise to actionable torts under the ATS (e.g., the prohibition against child slavery), domestic law provides the answer to any subsidiary questions regarding “how a particular actor is held liable for a given law-of-nations violation.”  Jesner, 584 U. S., at ___ (Sotomayor, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 2).  To the extent Justice Thomas is worried that federal courts are incapable of identifying such rules of liability in the absence of statutory direction, his concern is belied by the Federal Judiciary’s extensive record of doing just that.  See, e.g., Boyle v. United Technologies Corp.,

487 U.S. 500, 512–513 (1988) (recognizing a “Government contractor defense” to state-law product-liability suits); Consolidated Rail Corporation v. Gottshall,

512 U.S. 532, 541–557 (1994) (recognizing and defining the scope of liability for negligent infliction of emotional distress under the Federal Employers’ Liability Act); Agency Holding Corp. v. Malley-Duff & Associates, Inc.,

483 U.S. 143, 156 (1987) (borrowing the Clayton Act’s statute of limitations for purposes of civil actions brought under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act). 

6
 See, e.g., Khulumani v. Barclay Nat. Bank Ltd., 504 F.3d 254, 268–277 (CA2 2007) (Katzmann, J., concurring) (surveying aiding-and-abetting liability under international law). 

7
 Justice Gorsuch also points out that “[t]he one time Congress deemed a new ATS action worth having, it created that action itself in the Torture Victim Protection Act of 1991 [(TVPA)].”  Post, at 5 (concurring opinion).  But Justice Gorsuch fails to mention what the Committee Reports accompanying that statute actually said: that while the TVPA “establish[ed] an unambiguous and modern basis for a cause of action” to sue perpetrators of torture and extrajudicial killing, the ATS “has other important uses and should not be replaced.”  H. R. Rep. No. 102–367, pt. 1, p. 3 (1991); accord, S. Rep. No. 102–249, p. 4 (1991).  The Reports cautioned that “claims based on torture or summary executions do not exhaust the list of actions that may appropriately be covered” by the ATS, which “should remain intact to permit suits based on other norms that already exist or may ripen in the future into rules of customary international law.”  H. R. Rep. No. 102–367, at 4; accord, S. Rep. No. 102–249, at 5. 


