::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-010
::decision_cite:: 19-438
::decision_name::  Pereida v. Wilkinson
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–438

															_________________

															CLEMENTE AVELINO PEREIDA, PETITIONER v. ROBERT M. WILKINSON, ACTING ATTORNEY GENERAL

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit

															[March 4, 2021]

															Justice Gorsuch delivered the opinion of the Court.

															Everyone agrees that Clemente Avelino Pereida entered this country unlawfully, and that the government has secured a lawful order directing his removal.  The only remaining question is whether Mr. Pereida can prove his eligibility for discretionary relief.

															Under the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), individuals seeking relief from a lawful removal order shoulder a heavy burden.  Among other things, those in Mr. Pereida’s shoes must prove that they have not been convicted of a “crime involving moral turpitude.”  Here, Mr. Pereida admits he has a recent conviction, but declines to identify the crime.  As a result, Mr. Pereida contends, no one can be sure whether his crime involved “moral turpitude” and, thanks to this ambiguity, he remains eligible for relief.

															Like the Eighth Circuit, we must reject Mr. Pereida’s argument.  The INA expressly requires individuals seeking relief from lawful removal orders to prove all aspects of their eligibility.  That includes proving they do not stand convicted of a disqualifying criminal offense.

															I

															The INA governs how persons are admitted to, and removed from, the United States.  Removal proceedings begin when the government files a charge against an individual, and they occur before a hearing officer at the Department of Justice, someone the agency refers to as an immigration judge.  If the proof warrants it, an immigration judge may order an individual removed for, say, entering the country unlawfully or committing a serious crime while here.  See 8 U. S. C. §§1229a, 1182(a), 1227(a).

															Even then, however, an avenue for relief remains.  A person faced with a lawful removal order may still ask the Attorney General to “cancel” that order.  §§1229a(c)(4), 1229b(b)(1).  To be eligible for this form of relief, a nonpermanent resident alien like Mr. Pereida must prove four things: (1) he has been present in the United States for at least 10 years; (2) he has been a person of good moral character; (3) he has not been convicted of certain criminal offenses; and (4) his removal would impose an “exceptional and extremely unusual” hardship on a close relative who is either a citizen or permanent resident of this country.  §§1229b(b)(1), 1229a(c)(4).  Establishing all this still yields no guarantees; it only renders an alien eligible to have his removal order cancelled.  The Attorney General may choose to grant or withhold that relief in his discretion, limited by Congress’s command that no more than 4,000 removal orders may be cancelled each year.  §1229b(e).

															This narrow pathway to relief proved especially challenging here.  The government brought removal proceedings against Mr. Pereida, alleging that he had entered the country unlawfully and had never become a lawful resident.  In reply, Mr. Pereida chose not to dispute that he was subject to removal.  Instead, he sought to establish only his eligibility for discretionary relief.  At the same time, Mr. Pereida’s lawyer explained to the immigration judge that Nebraska authorities were in the middle of prosecuting his client for a crime.  Because the outcome of that case had the potential to affect Mr. Pereida’s eligibility for cancellation of removal, counsel asked the immigration judge to postpone any further proceedings on Mr. Pereida’s application for relief until the criminal case concluded.  The immigration judge agreed.

															In the criminal case, state authorities charged Mr. Pereida with attempted criminal impersonation.  Under Nebraska law, a person commits criminal impersonation if he:

															“(a) Assumes a false identity and does an act in his or her assumed character with intent to gain a pecuniary benefit . . . or to deceive or harm another;

															“(b) Pretends to be a representative of some person or organization and does an act in his or her pretended capacity with the intent to gain a pecuniary benefit . . . and to deceive or harm another;

															“(c) Carries on any profession, business, or any other occupation without a license, certificate, or other authorization required by law; or

															“(d) Without the authorization . . . of another and with the intent to deceive or harm another: (i) Obtains or records . . . personal identifying information; and (ii) Accesses or attempts to access the financial resources of another through the use of . . . personal identifying information for the purpose of obtaining credit, money . . . or any other thing of value.”  Neb. Rev. Stat. §28–608 (2008) (since amended and moved to Neb. Rev. Stat. §28–638).

															Ultimately, Mr. Pereida was found guilty, and this conviction loomed large when his immigration proceedings resumed.  Before the immigration judge, everyone accepted that Mr. Pereida’s eligibility for discretionary relief depended on whether he could show he had not been convicted of certain crimes, including ones “involving moral turpitude.”  8 U. S. C. §§1182(a)(2)(A)(i)(I), 1227(a)(2)(A)(i), 1229b(b)(1)(C).  And whatever else one might say about that phrase, the parties took it as given that a crime involving “fraud [as] an ingredient” qualifies as a crime involving “moral turpitude.”  Jordan v. De George,

341 U.S. 223, 227 (1951).

															The parties’ common ground left Mr. Pereida with an uphill climb.  As the immigration judge read the Nebraska statute, subsections (a), (b), and (d) each stated a crime involving fraud, and thus each constituted a disqualifying offense of moral turpitude.  That left only subsection (c)’s prohibition against carrying on a business without a required license.  The immigration judge thought this crime likely did not require fraudulent conduct, but he also saw little reason to think it was the offense Mr. Pereida had committed.  The government presented a copy of the criminal complaint against Mr. Pereida showing that Nebraska had charged him with using a fraudulent social security card to obtain employment.  Meanwhile, Mr. Pereida declined to offer any competing evidence of his own.  In light of this state of proof, the immigration judge found that Mr. Pereida’s conviction had nothing to do with carrying on an unlicensed business in violation of subsection (c) and everything to do with the fraudulent (and thus disqualifying) conduct made criminal by subsections (a), (b), or (d).

															Mr. Pereida’s efforts to undo this ruling proved unsuccessful.  Both the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) and the Eighth Circuit agreed with the immigration judge that Nebraska’s statute contains different subsections describing different crimes.  Pereida v. Barr, 916 F.3d 1128, 1131, 1133 (2019).  They agreed, too, that subsections (a), (b), and (d) set forth crimes involving moral turpitude, while subsection (c) does not.  At the same time, both found the case a little more complicated than the immigration judge thought.  While the government’s evidence revealed that Nebraska had charged Mr. Pereida with using a fraudulent social security card to obtain employment, and while that evidence would “seem to support a finding that the crime underlying [Mr. Pereida’s] attempt offense involved fraud or deceit,” the BIA and Court of Appeals observed that nothing in the record definitively indicated which statutory subsection Mr. Pereida stood convicted of violating.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 17a.  Still, neither the agency nor the Eighth Circuit could see how the absence of conclusive proof on this score might make a difference.  Mr. Pereida bore the burden of proving his eligibility for relief, so it was up to him to show that his crime of conviction did not involve moral turpitude.  Because Mr. Pereida had not carried that burden, he was ineligible for discretionary relief all the same.

															It is this judgment Mr. Pereida asks us to reverse.  In his view, Congress meant for any ambiguity about an alien’s prior convictions to work against the government, not the alien.  The circuits have disagreed on this question, so we granted certiorari to resolve the conflict.  589 U. S. ___ (2019).

															II

															A

															Like any other, Mr. Pereida’s claims about Congress’s meaning or purpose must be measured against the language it adopted.  And there, a shortcoming quickly emerges.  The INA states that “[a]n alien applying for relief or protection from removal has the burden of proof to establish” that he “satisfies the applicable eligibility requirements” and that he “merits a favorable exercise of discretion.”

8 U. S. C. §1229a(c)(4)(A).  To carry that burden, a nonpermanent resident alien like Mr. Pereida must prove four things, including that he “has not been convicted” of certain disqualifying offenses, like crimes involving moral turpitude.  §1229b(b)(1)(C).  Thus any lingering uncertainty about whether Mr. Pereida stands convicted of a crime of moral turpitude would appear enough to defeat his application for relief, exactly as the BIA and Eighth Circuit held.

															It turns out that Mr. Pereida actually agrees with much of this.  He accepts that he must prove three of the four statutory eligibility requirements (his longstanding presence in the country, his good moral character, and extreme hardship on a relative).  He does not dispute that ambiguity on these points can defeat his application for relief.  It is only when it comes to the final remaining eligibility requirement at issue here—whether he was convicted of a disqualifying offense—that Mr. Pereida insists a different rule should apply.  Yet, he identifies nothing in the statutory text singling out this lone requirement for special treatment.  His concession that an alien must show his good moral character undercuts his argument too.  Ambiguity about a conviction for a crime involving moral turpitude would seem to defeat an assertion of “good moral character.”  Cf.

8 U. S. C. §1101(f )(3).  And if that’s true, it’s hard to see how the same ambiguity could help an alien when it comes to the closely related eligibility requirement at issue before us.

															What the statute’s text indicates, its context confirms.  Consider three nearby provisions.  First, the INA specifies particular forms of evidence that “shall constitute proof of a criminal conviction,” including certain official records of conviction, docket entries, and attestations.  §1229a(c)(3)(B).  These rules apply to “any proceeding under this chapter” regardless whether the proceedings happen to involve efforts by the government to remove an alien or efforts by an alien to obtain relief.  Ibid.  In this way, the INA anticipates both the need for proof about prior convictions and the fact an alien sometimes bears the burden of supplying it.

															Next, when it comes to “removal proceedings,” the INA assigns the government the “burden” of showing that the alien has committed a crime of moral turpitude in certain circumstances.  See §§1229a(c)(3), 1227(a)(2)(A)(i).  But the burden flips for “[a]pplications for relief from removal,” like the one at issue in this case.  §1229a(c)(4).  These statutory features show that Congress knows how to assign the government the burden of proving a disqualifying conviction.  And Congress’s decision to do so in some proceedings, but not in proceedings on an alien’s application for relief, reflects its choice that these different processes warrant different treatment.

															Finally, the INA often requires an alien applying for admission to show “clearly and beyond doubt” that he is “entitled to be admitted and is not inadmissible.”  §1229a(c)(2)(A).  As part of this showing, an alien must demonstrate that he has not committed a crime involving moral turpitude.  §1182(a)(2)(A)(i)(I).  In this context, it is undisputed that an alien has the burden of proving that he has not committed a crime of moral turpitude.  And Mr. Pereida has offered no account why a rational Congress might wish to place this burden on an alien seeking admission to this country, yet lift it from an alien who has entered the country illegally and is petitioning for relief from a lawful removal order.[1]

															B

															Confronted now with a growing list of unhelpful textual clues, Mr. Pereida seeks to shift ground.  Even if he must shoulder the burden of proving that he was not convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, Mr. Pereida replies, he can carry that burden thanks to the so-called “categorical approach.”

															The Court first discussed the categorical approach in the criminal context, but it has since migrated into our INA cases.  Following its strictures, a court does not consider the facts of an individual’s crime as he actually committed it.  Instead, a court asks only whether an individual’s crime of conviction necessarily—or categorically—triggers a particular consequence under federal law.  The categorical approach is required, we have said, because the language found in statutes like the INA provision before us don’t task courts with examining whether an individual’s actions meet a federal standard like “moral turpitude,” but only whether the individual “has. . . been convicted of an offense” that does so.  §§1229b(b)(1)(C) (emphasis added), 1227(a)(2)(A)(i); Taylor v. United States,

495 U.S. 575, 600 (1990); Leocal v. Ashcroft,

543 U.S. 1, 7 (2004); United States v. Davis, 588 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2019) (slip op., at 9–11).[2]

															In Mr. Pereida’s view, the categorical approach makes all the difference.  It does so because Nebraska’s statute criminalizes at least some conduct—like carrying on a business without a license—that doesn’t necessarily involve fraud.  So what if Mr. Pereida actually committed fraud?  Under the categorical approach, that is beside the point.  Because a person, hypothetically, could violate the Nebraska statute without committing fraud, the statute does not qualify as a crime involving moral turpitude.  In this way, Mr. Pereida submits, he can carry any burden of proof the INA assigns him.

															This argument, however, overstates the categorical approach’s preference for hypothetical facts over real ones.  In order to tackle the hypothetical question whether one might complete Mr. Pereida’s offense of conviction without doing something fraudulent, a court must have some idea what his actual offense of conviction was in the first place.  And to answer that question, courts must examine historical facts.  No amount of staring at a State’s criminal code will answer whether a particular person was convicted of any particular offense at any particular time.  Applying the categorical approach thus implicates two inquiries—one factual (what was Mr. Pereida’s crime of conviction?), the other hypothetical (could someone commit that crime of conviction without fraud?).[3]

															The factual inquiry can take on special prominence when it comes to “divisible” statutes.  Some statutes state only a single crime, often making it a simple thing for a judge to conclude from a defendant’s criminal records that he was convicted of violating statute x and thus necessarily convicted of crime x.  Not infrequently, however, a single criminal statute will list multiple, stand-alone offenses, some of which trigger consequences under federal law, and others of which do not.  To determine exactly which offense in a divisible statute an individual committed, this Court has told judges to employ a “modified” categorical approach, “review[ing] the record materials to discover which of the enumerated alternatives played a part in the defendant’s prior conviction.”  Mathis v. United States, 579 U. S. ___, ___, ___ (2016) (slip op., at 12, 16).  In aid of the inquiry, we have said, judges may consult “a limited class of documents (for example, the indictment, jury instructions, or plea agreement and colloquy) to determine what crime, with what elements, a defendant was convicted of.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 4).

															These nuances expose the difficulty with Mr. Pereida’s argument.  Both he and the government accept that Nebraska’s attempted criminal impersonation statute is divisible because it states no fewer than four separate offenses in subsections (a) through (d).  The immigration judge, BIA, and Eighth Circuit concluded that three of these subsections—(a), (b), and (d)—constitute crimes of moral turpitude.  So that left Mr. Pereida with the burden of proving as a factual matter that his conviction was for misusing a business license under subsection (c).  To be sure, in this Court Mr. Pereida now seeks to suggest that it is also possible for a hypothetical defendant to violate subsection (a) without engaging in conduct that involves moral turpitude under federal law.  But even assuming he is right about this, it still left him obliged to show in the proceedings below that he was convicted under subsection (a) or (c) rather than under (b) or (d).

															Mr. Pereida failed to carry that burden.  Before the immigration judge, he refused to produce any evidence about his crime of conviction even after the government introduced evidence suggesting that he was convicted under a statute setting forth some crimes involving fraud.  Nor has Mr. Pereida sought a remand for another chance to resolve the ambiguity by introducing evidence about his crime of conviction; at oral argument, he even disclaimed interest in the possibility.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 23–25.  These choices may be the product of sound strategy, especially if further evidence would serve only to show that Mr. Pereida’s crime of conviction did involve fraud.  But whatever degree of ambiguity remains about the nature of Mr. Pereida’s conviction, and whatever the reason for it, one thing remains stubbornly evident: He has not carried his burden of showing that he was not convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.

															Look at the problem this way.  Mr. Pereida is right that, when asking whether a state conviction triggers a federal consequence, courts applying the categorical approach often presume that a conviction rests on nothing more than the minimum conduct required to secure a conviction.  But Mr. Pereida neglects to acknowledge that this presumption cannot answer the question which crime the defendant was convicted of committing.  To answer that question, parties and judges must consult evidence.  And where, as here, the alien bears the burden of proof and was convicted under a divisible statute containing some crimes that qualify as crimes of moral turpitude, the alien must prove that his actual, historical offense of conviction isn’t among them.[4]

															The INA’s plain terms confirm the point.  Recall that the INA places the “burden of proof ” on an alien like Mr. Pereida to show four things; that one of these is the absence of a disqualifying conviction; and that the law specifies certain forms of evidence “shall” constitute “proof ” of a criminal conviction.  See Part II–A, supra.  In each of these ways, the statutory scheme anticipates the need for evidentiary proof about the alien’s crime of conviction and imposes on the alien the duty to present it.[5]

															The INA adopts this approach for understandable reasons too.  Not only is it impossible to discern an individual’s offense of conviction without consulting at least some documentary or testimonial evidence.  It’s easy to imagine significant factual disputes that make these statutory instructions about the presentation of evidence and the burden of proof critically important.  Suppose, for example, that the parties in this case disputed whether the criminal complaint the government introduced involved a different Clemente Avelino Pereida.  Alternatively, what if Nebraska’s complaint charged Mr. Pereida with a violation of subsection (c) but the plea colloquy mentioned only subsection (d)?  Or what if the relevant records were illegible or contained a material typo?  Courts can resolve disputes like these only by reference to evidence, which means a statutory allocation of the burden of proof will sometimes matter a great deal.

															To reach a different conclusion would require us to cast a blind eye over a good many precedents.  When applying the categorical approach, this Court has long acknowledged that to ask what crime the defendant was convicted of committing is to ask a question of fact.  See, e.g., Taylor, 495 U. S., at 600 (courts look “to the fact that the defendant had been convicted of crimes falling within certain categories”).  We have described the modified categorical approach as requiring courts to “review . . . record materials” to determine which of the offenses in a divisible statute the defendant was convicted of committing.  Mathis, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 16).  We have acknowledged that this process calls on courts to consider “extra-statutory materials” to “discover” the defendant’s crime of conviction.  Descamps v. United States,

570 U.S. 254, 263 (2013).  We have observed that these “materials will not in every case speak plainly,” and that any lingering ambiguity about them can mean the government will fail to carry its burden of proof in a criminal case.  Mathis, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 18) (citing Shepard v. United States,

544 U.S. 13, 21 (2005)).  And we have remarked that “the fact of a prior conviction” supplies an unusual and “arguable” exception to the
 
Sixth Amendment rule in criminal cases that “any fact that increases the penalty for a crime” must be proved to a jury rather than a judge.  Apprendi v. New Jersey,

530 U.S. 466, 489, 490 (2000).

															Really, this Court has never doubted that the who, what, when, and where of a conviction—and the very existence of a conviction in the first place—pose questions of fact.  Nor have we questioned that, like any other fact, the party who bears the burden of proving these facts bears the risks associated with failing to do so.[6]

															The authorities Mr. Pereida invokes do not teach differently.  He directs our attention especially to Moncrieffe v. Holder,

569 U.S. 184 (2013), Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder,

560 U.S. 563 (2010), and Johnson v. United States,

559 U.S. 133 (2010).  But the first two cases addressed only the question whether the minimum conduct needed to commit an alien’s known offense of conviction categorically triggered adverse federal consequences.  Neither addressed the threshold factual question at issue here—which crime formed the basis of the alien’s prior conviction.

															The final case is no more helpful to Mr. Pereida.  Johnson involved a criminal prosecution under the Armed Career Criminal Act (ACCA) in which the government bore the burden of proof.  There, “nothing in the record” indicated which of several crimes in a divisible statute the defendant had been convicted of committing.  Id., at 137.  Accordingly, if it wished to win certain sentencing enhancements, the government had to show that all of the statute’s offenses met the federal definition of a “ ‘violent felony.’ ”  Ibid.  Here, by contrast, Mr. Pereida bears the burden of proof and the same logic applies to him.  We do not doubt that, when the record is silent on which of several crimes in a divisible statute an alien committed, he might succeed by showing that none of the statute’s offenses qualifies as a crime of moral turpitude.  It’s simply that this avenue wasn’t open to Mr. Pereida.  No one before us questions that Nebraska’s statute contains some crimes of moral turpitude under federal law.  Given this, it necessarily fell to Mr. Pereida to show that his actual offense was not among these disqualifying offenses.  And just as evidentiary gaps work against the government in criminal cases, they work against the alien seeking relief from a lawful removal order.  When it comes to civil immigration proceedings, Congress can, and has, allocated the burden differently.[7]

															C

															This leaves Mr. Pereida to his final redoubt.  Maybe the INA works as we have described.  But, Mr. Pereida worries, acknowledging as much would invite “grave practical difficulties.”  Brief for Petitioner 43.  What if the alien’s record of conviction is unavailable or incomplete through no fault of his own?  To deny aliens relief only because of poor state court record-keeping practices would, he submits, make for inefficient and unfair public policy.  The dissent expands on these same policy arguments at length.  See post, at 14–16.

															Notably, though, neither Mr. Pereida nor the dissent suggests that record-keeping problems attend this case.  Mr. Pereida’s immigration proceedings progressed in tandem with his criminal case, so it is hard to imagine how he could have been on better notice about the need to obtain and preserve relevant state court records about his crime.  Represented by counsel in both proceedings, he had professional help with these tasks too.  We know that relevant records were created, as well, because the government submitted documents outlining the charges brought against him.  Despite all this, Mr. Pereida simply declined to insist on clarity in his state court records or supply further evidence.

															Still, even accepting that graver record-keeping problems will arise in other cases, it is not clear what that might tell us.  Record-keeping problems promise to occur from time to time regardless who bears the burden of proof.  And, as in most cases that come our way, both sides can offer strong policy arguments to support their positions.  Mr. Pereida and the dissent say fairness and efficiency would be better served if the government bore the risk of loss associated with record-keeping difficulties.  Meanwhile, the government contends that it is important for the burden of proof to rest with the alien so those seeking discretionary relief cannot gain a tactical advantage by withholding or concealing evidence they possess about their own convictions.  It is hardly this Court’s place to pick and choose among competing policy arguments like these along the way to selecting whatever outcome seems to us most congenial, efficient, or fair.  Our license to interpret statutes does not include the power to engage in such freewheeling judicial policymaking.  Congress was entitled to conclude that uncertainty about an alien’s prior conviction should not redound to his benefit.  Only that policy choice, embodied in the terms of the law Congress adopted, commands this Court’s respect.

															It seems, too, that Mr. Pereida may have overlooked some of the tools Congress afforded aliens faced with record-keeping challenges.  In the criminal context, this Court has said that judges seeking to ascertain the defendant’s crime of conviction should refer only to a “limited” set of judicial records.  Shepard, 544 U. S., at 20–23.  In part, the Court has circumscribed the proof a judge may consult out of concern for the defendant’s
 
Sixth Amendment right to a trial by jury.  If a judge, rather than a jury, may take evidence and make findings of fact, the thinking goes, the proceeding should be as confined as possible.  Id., at 25–26; see also Apprendi, 530 U. S., at 487–490 (citing Almendarez-Torres v. United States,

523 U.S. 224 (1998)).  But
 
Sixth Amendment concerns are not present in the immigration context.  And in the INA, Congress has expressly authorized parties to introduce a much broader array of proof when it comes to prior convictions—indicating, for example, that a variety of records and attestations “shall” be taken as proof of a prior conviction.

8 U. S. C. §1229a(c)(3)(B).  Nor is it even clear whether these many listed forms of proof are meant to be the only permissible ways of proving a conviction, or whether they are simply assured of special treatment when produced.  Cf. n. 5, supra.  Mr. Pereida acknowledges none of this, again perhaps understandably if further evidence could not have helped his cause.  Still, it is notable that Congress took significant steps in the INA to ameliorate some of the record-keeping problems Mr. Pereida discusses by allowing aliens considerably more latitude in carrying their burden of proof than he seems to suppose.

															*

															Under the INA, certain nonpermanent aliens seeking to cancel a lawful removal order must prove that they have not been convicted of a disqualifying crime.  The Eighth Circuit correctly held that Mr. Pereida failed to carry this burden.  Its judgment is

															Affirmed.

															Justice Barrett took no part in the consideration or  decision of this case.
Notes
1
 The dissent does not seriously dispute any of this, but brushes it aside as having “little or n[o]” importance only because of the “categorical approach” discussed in the next section.  Post, at 1 (opinion of Breyer, J.). 

2
 Nothing requires Congress to employ the categorical approach.  Instead of focusing our attention on the question whether an offense of conviction meets certain criteria, Congress could have (and sometimes has) used statutory language requiring courts to ask whether the defendant’s actual conduct meets certain specified criteria.  See, e.g., Nijhawan v. Holder,

557 U.S. 29, 41 (2009). 

3
 It is unclear where the dissent stands on this point.  In places, the dissent seems to suggest that no “threshold” factual question exists here.  Post, at 10.  Elsewhere, the dissent appears to admit that establishing the “basic fact” of an individual’s crime of conviction is a necessary prerequisite to application of the categorical approach.  Post, at 11.  The second view comes closer to the mark. 

4
 The dissent makes the same mistake.  At first, it acknowledges that courts must look to factual evidence to determine which of several offenses in a divisible statute the defendant committed, and even admits we do not know which of the offenses listed in the Nebraska statute Mr. Pereida committed.  Post, at 5, 9.  But the dissent then does an about-face—treating Nebraska’s (divisible) statute as if it states a single offense.  Post, at 10.  The dissent had it right the first time.  Both sides agree that Nebraska’s statute is divisible and states (at least) four independent crimes.  We do not know which of those crimes formed the basis of Mr. Pereida’s conviction because the record is ambiguous, and Mr. Pereida has not supplied anything to clarify it.  Mr. Pereida now attempts to benefit from that uncertainty.  But that proposition is foreclosed by the INA’s burden of proof.  

5
 There are other statutory signals that point to the same conclusion.  The INA authorizes an immigration judge to make “credibility determination[s]” based on an alien’s proof, §1229a(c)(4)(C); it says the immigration judge must determine whether “testimony is credible, is persuasive, and refers to specific facts sufficient to [discharge] the applicant’s burden of proof,” §1229a(c)(4)(B); and the law requires the alien to comply with regulations requiring him to “submit information or documentation” supporting his application for relief, ibid.  Current regulations indicate that an alien should describe on his application form any prior convictions he may have, Dept. of Justice, Executive Office for Immigration Review, Form EOIR–42B, Application for Cancellation of Removal and Adjustment of Status for Certain Nonpermanent Residents 5 (Rev. July 2016), https://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/pages/attachments/2016/10/ 20/eoir42b.pdf.  In all of these additional ways, the INA again anticipates the need for proof and the possibility of its challenge in an application for relief—and nowhere does the statute suggest some special carveout exists when it comes to evidence concerning prior convictions. 

6
 Practice in the criminal and INA contexts comports with practice in other fields too.  Often in civil litigation, a party must prove the fact of a prior judgment on a particular claim or the fact of a ruling on a particular issue.  And there, as here, the question can turn on the persuasiveness of the proof presented and on whom the burden of proof rests.  So, for example, the Restatement (Second) of Judgments, contemplates that parties seeking to assert issue preclusion “ha[ve] the burden of proving” that an “an issue of fact or law” has been “actually litigated and determined by a valid and final judgment.”  §27, and Comment f (1982).  And “[i]f it cannot be determined from the pleadings and other materials of record in the prior action what issues, if any, were litigated and determined by the verdict and judgment, extrinsic evidence is admissible to aid in such determination.  Extrinsic evidence may also be admitted to show that the record in the prior action does not accurately indicate what issues, if any, were litigated and determined.”  Id., Comment f. The dissent suggests its own analogy to contract law.  See post, at 10–11.  But it never explains why we should look there before the statutory text or the law’s customary treatment of judgments.  Nor does the analogy succeed even on its own terms.  It is “generally a question of fact for the jury whether or not a contract . . . actually exists.”  11 R. Lord, Williston on Contracts §30:3, pp. 37–39 (4th ed. 2012).  So too, “[w]hen a written contract is ambiguous, its meaning is a question of fact,” which may require looking to “relevant extrinsic evidence.”  Id., §30:7, at 116, 124.  Similarly here, disputes about the existence of Mr. Pereida’s conviction and its ambiguous meaning involve at least some questions of fact requiring resort to proof. 

7
 The dissent asserts that the ACCA and INA have a “shared text and purpose.”  Post, at 14.  In fact, however, the ACCA and INA provision at issue here bear different instructions.  Both may call for the application of the categorical approach.  But while the ACCA’s categorical approach demands certainty from the government, the INA’s demands it from the alien.  See post, at 6. 


