::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-016
::decision_cite:: 19-546
::decision_name::  Brownback v. King
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–546

															_________________

															DOUGLAS BROWNBACK, et al., PETITIONERS v. JAMES KING

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[February 25, 2021]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion because I agree that the District Court dismissed King’s Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) claims on the merits.  Importantly, the Court does not today decide whether an order resolving the merits of an FTCA claim precludes other claims arising out of the same subject matter in the same suit.  Although the parties briefed the issue, it was not the basis of the lower court’s decision.  See ante, at 5, n. 4.  I write separately to emphasize that, while many lower courts have uncritically held that the FTCA’s judgment bar applies to claims brought in the same action, there are reasons to question that conclusion.  This issue merits far closer consideration than it has thus far received.

															King argues that the judgment bar merely “supplements common-law claim preclusion by closing a narrow gap,” preventing plaintiffs from bringing duplicative litigation against first the United States and then its employees.  Simmons v. Himmelreich,

578 U.S. 621, 630, n. 5 (2016); see also ibid. (“At the time that the FTCA was passed, common-law claim preclusion would have barred a plaintiff from suing the United States after having sued an employee but not vice versa”).  On petitioners’ view, however, the judgment bar provides that any order resolving an FTCA claim automatically precludes separate claims brought in the same action and arising from the same common nucleus of facts.  This is a significant departure from the normal operation of common-law claim preclusion, which applies only in separate or subsequent suits following a final judgment.  See, e.g., G. & C. Merriam Co. v. Saalfield¸

241 U.S. 22, 29 (1916) (“Obviously, the rule for decision applies only when the subsequent action has been brought”).

															King raises a number of reasons to doubt petitioners’ reading.  Looking first to the text, the FTCA’s judgment bar is triggered by “[t]he judgment in an action under section 1346(b).”

28 U. S. C. §2676.  A “judgment” is “[a] court’s final determination of the rights and obligations of the parties in a case.”  Black’s Law Dictionary 1007 (11th ed. 2019); see also 1 H. Black, Law of Judgments §1, p. 2, n. l (1891) (“ ‘A judgment is the final consideration and determination of a court . . . upon the matters submitted to it’ ”).  Decisions disposing of only some of the claims in a lawsuit are not “judgments.”

															Similarly, once the judgment bar is triggered, it precludes “any action by the claimant.”  §2676.  An “action” refers to the whole of the lawsuit.  See Black’s Law Dictionary, at 37 (defining “action” as a “civil or criminal judicial proceeding”); Black’s Law Dictionary 43 (3d ed. 1933) (“The terms ‘action’ and ‘suit’ are now nearly, if not entirely, synonymous”).  Individual demands for relief within a lawsuit, by contrast, are “claims.”  See Black’s Law Dictionary, at 311 (2019) (defining a “claim” as “the part of a complaint in a civil action specifying what relief the plaintiff asks for”); Black’s Law Dictionary, at 333 (1933) (defining a “claim” as “any demand held or asserted as of right” or “cause of action”).

															Thus, giving the judgment bar’s two key terms their traditional meanings, “the judgment in an action under section 1346(b)” that triggers the bar is the final order resolving every claim in a lawsuit that includes FTCA claims.  When triggered, the judgment bar precludes later “action[s],” not claims in the same suit.  So read, the statutory judgment bar “functions in much the same way” as claim preclusion, “with both rules depending on a prior judgment as a condition precedent.”  Will v. Hallock,

546 U.S. 345, 354 (2006).[1]

															Turning next to the FTCA’s purpose and effect, under King’s reading, the judgment bar also serves the same, familiar functions as claim preclusion: “avoiding duplicative litigation” by barring repetitive suits against employees without “reflecting a policy that a defendant should be scot free of any liability.”  Ibid.  Petitioners’ interpretation, by contrast, appears inefficient.  Precluding claims brought in the same suit incentivizes plaintiffs to bring separate suits, first against federal employees directly and second against the United States under the FTCA.  See Sterling v. United States, 85 F.3d 1225, 1228–1229 (CA7 1996) (holding that judgment in a prior direct action did not preclude a later FTCA suit against the United States).[2]

															Petitioners’ interpretation also produces seemingly unfair results by precluding potentially meritorious claims when a plaintiff’s FTCA claims fail for unrelated reasons.  Here, for example, King’s constitutional claims require only a showing that the officers’ behavior was objectively unreasonable, while the District Court held that the state torts underlying King’s FTCA claims require subjective bad faith.  If petitioners are right, King’s failure to show bad faith, which is irrelevant to his constitutional claims, means a jury will never decide whether the officers violated King’s constitutional rights when they stopped, searched, and hospitalized him.

															There are, of course, counterarguments.  On the text, petitioners point out that it would be strange to refer to the entire lawsuit as “an action under section 1346(b)” even after the Court has decided all the claims brought under the FTCA.  Better, they argue, to read “judgment in an action under section 1346(b)” to mean any order resolving all the FTCA claims in the suit.  They urge further that claims in the same suit should be among the covered actions because the bar precludes “any action,” rather than “subsequent” actions, which is the typical formulation of claim preclusion.  As to the judgment bar’s purpose, petitioners contend that the FTCA gives tort claimants a choice that comes with a cost: They can sue the United States and access its deeper pockets, but, if they do, then the outcome of the FTCA claims resolves the entire controversy.  This preserves federal resources while allowing tort claimants to decide whether to bring FTCA claims at all.

															There are naturally counterarguments to those counterarguments, and so on, but further elaboration here is unnecessary.  As the Court points out, “ ‘we are a court of review, not of first view.’ ”  Ante, at 5, n. 4 (quoting Cutter v. Wilkinson,

544 U.S. 709, 718, n. 7 (2005)).  While lower courts have largely taken petitioners’ view of the judgment bar, few have explained how its text or purpose compels that result.  In my view, this question deserves much closer analysis and, where appropriate, reconsideration.
Notes
1
 Nearby §2672 could further support this interpretation.  That section provides that an administrative settlement with the United States “shall constitute a complete release of any claim against the United States and against the employee of the government” who committed the tort.  Unlike the judgment bar, §2672 uses unambiguous language (“release of any claim”) to ensure that settlements with the United States both preclude future litigation and resolve pending claims against federal employees.  Had Congress intended to give both provisions the same effect, “it presumably would have done so expressly.”  Russello v. United States,

464 U.S. 16, 23 (1983). 

2
 Some courts have held that precluding claims in the same action prevents plaintiffs from recovering for the same injury from both the United States and the federal employee.  The law, however, already bars double recovery for the same injury.  See, e.g., Zenith Radio Corp. v. Hazeltine Research, Inc.,

401 U.S. 321, 348 (1971) (“[T]he law . . . does not permit a plaintiff to recover double payment”). 


