::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-013
::decision_cite:: 19-5410
::decision_name::  Borden v. United States
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–5410

															_________________

															CHARLES BORDEN, Jr., PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[June 10, 2021]

															

															Justice Kagan announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an opinion, in which Justice Breyer, Justice Sotomayor, and Justice Gorsuch join.

															The Armed Career Criminal Act (ACCA),

18 U. S. C. §924(e), mandates a 15-year minimum sentence for persons found guilty of illegally possessing a gun who have three or more prior convictions for a “violent felony.”  The question here is whether a criminal offense can count as a “violent felony” if it requires only a mens rea of recklessness—a less culpable mental state than purpose or knowledge.  We hold that a reckless offense cannot so qualify.

															I

															Congress enacted ACCA, as its full name makes clear, to address the “special danger” associated with “armed career criminals.”  Begay v. United States,

553 U.S. 137, 146 (2008).  A “small percentage of repeat offenders,” Congress found, commit a “large percentage” of all violent crimes.  Taylor v. United States,

495 U.S. 575, 581 (1990) (quoting H. R. Rep. No. 98–1073, p. 1 (1984)).  And when such a habitual violent offender carries a gun, he poses a serious risk of wreaking harm.  As his prior convictions reveal, he is “the kind of person who,” when armed, “might deliberately point the gun and pull the trigger.”  Begay, 553 U. S., at 146.

															To allay that danger, ACCA enhances the sentence of anyone convicted under

18 U. S. C. §922(g) of being a felon in possession of a firearm if he has three or more prior convictions (whether state or federal) for a “violent felony.”  The increase in penalty is severe: A 10-year maximum sentence turns into a 15-year minimum one.  See §924(a)(2), (e)(1).  And because that is so, the scope of the statute is closely confined.  See Begay, 553 U. S., at 146 (Congress did not provide for “a 15-year mandatory prison term where th[e] increased likelihood [of gun violence] does not exist”).  The penalty enhancement kicks in only when a defendant has committed no fewer than three offenses meeting the statute’s definition of “violent felony.”  That definition, in addition to ticking off several specific crimes (for example, burglary and arson), includes the so-called elements clause, relevant here.  An offense qualifies as a violent felony under that clause if it “has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person of another.”  §924(e)(2)(B)(i).

															To decide whether an offense satisfies the elements clause, courts use the categorical approach.  See Stokeling v. United States, 586 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 13).  Under that by-now-familiar method, applicable in several statutory contexts, the facts of a given case are irrelevant.  The focus is instead on whether the elements of the statute of conviction meet the federal standard.  Here, that means asking whether a state offense necessarily involves the defendant’s “use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person of another.”  §924(e)(2)(B)(i); see Shular v. United States, 589 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2020) (slip op., at 3–4).  If any—even the least culpable—of the acts criminalized do not entail that kind of force, the statute of conviction does not categorically match the federal standard, and so cannot serve as an ACCA predicate.  See Johnson v. United States,

559 U.S. 133, 137 (2010).

															In this case, petitioner Charles Borden, Jr., pleaded guilty to a felon-in-possession charge, and the Government sought an enhanced sentence under ACCA.  One of the three convictions alleged as predicates was for reckless aggravated assault in violation of Tennessee law.  The relevant statute defines that crime as “[r]ecklessly commit[ting] an assault” and either “caus[ing] serious bodily injury to another” or “us[ing] or display[ing] a deadly weapon.”  Tenn. Code Ann. §39–13–102(a)(2) (2003); see §39–13–101(a)(1).  Borden argued that this offense is not a violent felony under ACCA’s elements clause because a mental state of recklessness suffices for conviction.  In his view, only purposeful or knowing conduct satisfies the clause’s demand for the use of force “against the person of another.”  The District Court disagreed, holding that reckless offenses qualify as violent felonies and sentencing Borden as a career offender.  The Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed that decision based on circuit precedent—though noting that Borden was “not alone” in viewing the precedent as “wrongly decided.”  769 Fed. Appx. 266, 268 (2019) (citing United States v. Verwiebe, 874 F.3d 258 (CA6 2017)).

															The circuit courts have indeed differed in addressing the question Borden raises.  Some have held, as in this case, that a statute covering reckless conduct qualifies as a violent felony under ACCA.[1]  Others have concluded that only a statute confined to purposeful or knowing conduct can count as such a felony.[2]  The dispute turns on the definition of “violent felony” in ACCA’s elements clause—more specifically, on how different mental states map onto the clause’s demand that an offense entail the “use . . . of physical force against the person of another.”  §924(e)(2)(B)(i).  We granted certiorari to resolve the issue.  589 U. S. ___ (2020).

															II

															Two pieces of background should ease the way.  We begin by setting out four states of mind, as described in modern statutes and cases, that may give rise to criminal liability.  Those mental states are, in descending order of culpability: purpose, knowledge, recklessness, and negligence.  We then discuss two prior decisions of this Court addressing questions similar to the one here.  In each, the Court considered how a certain mental state relates to a statutory definition marking out a category of crimes.  One of those definitions is almost identical to the elements clause; the other appropriates only the clause’s first half.  The Court’s analyses—about both the statute more like and the statute less like the elements clause—help frame today’s decision.

															Purpose and knowledge are the most culpable levels in the criminal law’s mental-state “hierarchy.”  United States v. Bailey,

444 U.S. 394, 404 (1980).  A person acts purposefully when he “consciously desires” a particular result.  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted); see ALI, Model Penal Code §2.02(2)(a) (1985).  He acts knowingly when “he is aware that [a] result is practically certain to follow from his conduct,” whatever his affirmative desire.  Bailey, 444 U. S., at 404 (internal quotation marks omitted); see Model Penal Code §2.02(2)(b)(ii).  We have characterized the distinction between the two as “limited,” explaining that it “has not been considered important” for many crimes.  Bailey, 444 U. S., at 404 (internal quotation marks omitted); see Model Penal Code, Comment 2, pp. 233–234 (calling the distinction “narrow” and often “inconsequential”).  A person who injures another knowingly, even though not affirmatively wanting the result, still makes a deliberate choice with full awareness of consequent harm.  See Bailey, 444 U. S., at 403–404.[3]

															Recklessness and negligence are less culpable mental states because they instead involve insufficient concern with a risk of injury.  A person acts recklessly, in the most common formulation, when he “consciously disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk” attached to his conduct, in “gross deviation” from accepted standards.  Model Penal Code §2.02(2)(c); see Voisine v. United States,

579 U.S. 686, ___ (2016) (slip op., at 4).  That risk need not come anywhere close to a likelihood.  Speeding through a crowded area may count as reckless even though the motorist’s “chances of hitting anyone are far less [than] 50%.”  1 W. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law §5.4(f ) (2018) (citing cases involving low-probability events).  Similarly (though one more step down the mental-state hierarchy), a person acts negligently if he is not but “should be aware” of such a “substantial and unjustifiable risk,” again in “gross deviation” from the norm.  Model Penal Code §2.02(2)(d).  There, the fault lies in the person’s simple “failure to perceive” the possible consequence of his behavior.  Ibid.

															In Leocal v. Ashcroft,

543 U.S. 1 (2004), this Court held that offenses requiring only a negligent mens rea fall outside a statutory definition relevantly identical to ACCA’s elements clause.  That definition, codified at

18 U. S. C. §16(a), is for the term “crime of violence,” which appears in many federal criminal and immigration laws.  Section 16(a) states, in language that should by now sound familiar, that a “crime of violence” means “an offense that has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person or property of another.”  (In case you missed it, the sole difference between §16(a) and the elements clause is the phrase “or property,” which brings property crimes within the former statute’s ambit.)  The question presented was whether that definition covers DUI offenses—for driving under the influence of alcohol and causing serious bodily injury—that require only a negligent mental state.  In addressing that issue, the parties had debated whether “the word ‘use’ alone supplies a mens rea element.”  543 U. S., at 9.  But the Court thought the focus on that one word “too narrow.”  Ibid.  Rather, we said, the “critical aspect” of §16(a) is its demand that the perpetrator use physical force “against the person or property of another.”  Ibid. (emphasis in original).  As a matter of “ordinary or natural meaning,” we explained, that “key phrase . . . most naturally suggests a higher degree of intent than negligent” conduct.  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). And confirmation of that view came from the defined term itself.  The phrase “crime of violence,” we reasoned, “suggests a category of violent, active crimes that cannot be said naturally to include” negligent offenses.  Id., at 11.  All that sufficed to resolve the status of the DUI offense at issue.  The Court thus reserved the question whether an offense with a mens rea of recklessness likewise fails to qualify as a crime of violence.  Id., at 13.

															More recently, the Court held that reckless offenses fall within a different statutory definition—this one lacking the “against another” phrase Leocal deemed “critical.”  Id., at 9.  The law at issue in Voisine v. United States bars persons convicted of a “misdemeanor crime of domestic violence” from possessing firearms.

18 U. S. C. §922(g)(9).  That phrase is defined to mean a misdemeanor, committed by a person in a specified domestic relationship with the victim, that “has, as an element, the use or attempted use of physical force.”  §921(a)(33)(A).  In that truncated definition, the only language anyone could “think[ ] relevant” was the word “use” (the word Leocal, in construing a longer definition, deemed not the right focus).  Voisine, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  The Court understood “use” as demanding volition—the “active employment” of force.  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 5–6).  But we thought that lone word “indifferent” to whether an actor choosing to employ force had a mental state of recklessness, knowledge, or purpose.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  And that reading of “use,” we continued, is the only one consistent with the statute’s history and purpose.  Congress enacted §922(g)(9), we explained, to prevent domestic abusers convicted of “garden-variety [misdemeanor] assault” from owning guns—and most such misdemeanors cover reckless conduct.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 8).  At each step of the analysis, then, our decision was statute-specific.  We made clear that other statutory definitions—whether the one in Leocal or the near-identical one in ACCA’s elements clause—might exclude reckless offenses.  See id., at ___, n. 4 (slip op., at 7, n. 4).

															III

															Today, we reach the question we reserved in both Leocal and Voisine.  We must decide whether the elements clause’s definition of “violent felony”—an offense requiring the “use of physical force against the person of another”—includes offenses criminalizing reckless conduct.[4]  We hold that it does not.  The phrase “against another,” when modifying the “use of force,” demands that the perpetrator direct his action at, or target, another individual.  Reckless conduct is not aimed in that prescribed manner.  Our reading of the relevant text finds support in its context and purpose.  The treatment of reckless offenses as “violent felonies” would impose large sentencing enhancements on individuals (for example, reckless drivers) far afield from the “armed career criminals” ACCA addresses—the kind of offenders who, when armed, could well “use [the] gun deliberately to harm a victim.”  Begay, 553 U. S., at 145.  And contra the Government (and dissent), Voisine says nothing to the contrary.

															A

															1

															The parties here dispute the meaning of the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another.”  They start in the same place, as they must: The “use of physical force,” as Voisine held, means the “volitional” or “active” employment of force.  579 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 5–6).  The fight begins with the word “against.”  According to Borden, that word means “in opposition to,” and so “introduces the target of the preceding action.”  Brief for Petitioner 19 (citing dictionaries).  Examples are easy to muster: The general deployed his forces against a rival regiment, or the chess master played the Queen’s Gambit against her opponent.  The Government responds that “against” instead means “mak[ing] contact with,” and so introduces the mere recipient of force rather than its “intended target.”  Brief for United States 23–24 (also citing dictionaries).  As examples, the Government offers: “waves crashing against the shore or a baseball hitting against the outfield fence.”  Id., at 23 (internal quotation marks omitted).  The difference in meaning, both parties agree, matters for this case.  Brief for Petitioner 19–21; Brief for United States 23–24.  If “against,” as used here, expresses a kind of directedness or targeting, then recklessness—as even the Government concedes—falls outside the elements clause.  See id., at 26 (noting that the oppositional definition of “against” would exclude “a defendant who recklessly causes injury”).  Only if the “against” phrase lacks that connotation—if, as the Government argues, it is indifferent to whether the conduct is directed at another—can the elements clause include reckless offenses.  Id., at 23.

															Borden’s view of “against,” as introducing the conscious object (not the mere recipient) of the force, is the right one given the rest of the elements clause.  Dictionaries offer definitions of “against” consistent with both parties’ view: The word can mean either “[i]n opposition to” or “in contact with,” depending on the context.  See, e.g., Webster’s New International Dictionary 46 (2d ed. 1957) (giving both definitions).  The critical context here is the language that “against another” modifies—the “use of physical force.”  As just explained, “use of force” denotes volitional conduct.  And the pairing of volitional action with the word “against” supports that word’s oppositional, or targeted, definition.  Look once more at the examples offered in the last paragraph.  Borden’s involve volitional conduct, by the general or chess master—essentially, each actor’s “use of force.”  There, the “against” phrase reveals at whom the conduct is consciously directed: the rival army or player.  In contrast, the Government’s examples do not involve volitional conduct, because “waves” and “baseballs” have no volition—and indeed, cannot naturally be said to “use force” at all.  There, an “against” clause merely names a thing with which the subject came into contact.[5]  For our purpose, the more apt examples are Borden’s.  As in those examples, ACCA’s “against” phrase modifies volitional conduct (i.e., the use of force).  So that phrase, too, refers to the conduct’s conscious object.  Indeed, the Court has made a similar point before, in an opinion by one of its great wordsmiths.  When citizens “bear [a]rms against” some entity, Justice Scalia wrote, what follows the word “against” is “the target of the hostilities.”  District of Columbia v. Heller,

554 U.S. 570, 586 (2008) (internal quotation marks omitted).  That is just as true when someone, as in the elements clause, actively employs physical force.

															On that understanding, the clause covers purposeful and knowing acts, but excludes reckless conduct (as, once again, the Government concedes).  See Brief for United States 26; see supra, at 8–9.  Purposeful conduct is obvious.  Suppose a person drives his car straight at a reviled neighbor, desiring to hit him.  The driver has, in the statute’s words, “use[d] . . . physical force against the person of another.”  The same holds true for knowing behavior.  Say a getaway driver sees a pedestrian in his path but plows ahead anyway, knowing the car will run him over.  That driver, too, fits within the statute: Although he would prefer a clear road, he too drives his car straight at a known victim.  Or said otherwise, both drivers (even though for different reasons) have consciously deployed the full force of an automobile at another person.  See United States v. United States Gypsum,

438 U.S. 422, 445 (1978) (explaining that the law thus views both as “intend[ing]” the result).  But that is not so of a reckless (or a negligent) actor.  Imagine a commuter who, late to work, decides to run a red light, and hits a pedestrian whom he did not see.  The commuter has consciously disregarded a real risk, thus endangering others.  And he has ended up making contact with another person, as the Government emphasizes.  See Brief for United States 23.  But as the Government just as readily acknowledges, the reckless driver has not directed force at another: He has not trained his car at the pedestrian understanding he will run him over.  See id., at 26.  To the contrary, his fault is to pay insufficient attention to the potential application of force.  Because that is so—because his conduct is not opposed to or directed at another—he does not come within the elements clause.  He has not used force “against” another person in the targeted way that clause requires.

															Leocal confirms our conclusion.  Although the Court reserved the question we decide today, its reasoning all but precludes the Government’s answer.  Recall that Leocal held that negligent conduct falls outside a statutory definition much like the elements clause—one requiring the use of physical force “against the person or property of another.”

18 U. S. C. §16(a); see 543 U. S., at 9; supra, at 5–6.  In thus excluding crimes with a negligent mens rea, the Court reasoned just as we have today.  When read against the words “use of force,” the “against” phrase—the definition’s “critical aspect”—“suggests a higher degree of intent” than (at least) negligence.  543 U. S., at 9.  That view of §16(a)’s “against” phrase—as incorporating a mens rea requirement—contradicts the Government’s (and dissent’s) view here that a materially identical phrase is “not a roundabout way” of . . . incorporating a mens rea requirement.  Brief for United States 9.  The Government thus asks us to read ACCA’s elements clause—specifically, its “against” phrase, modifying the “use of force”—contrary to how we have read near-identical words before.

															Even the single difference between the two statutes works against the Government: On its reading, §16(a)’s two added words would turn that provision’s “against” phrase into surplusage.  The problem begins with the Government’s attempt to give ACCA’s own “against” phrase meaning.  If not to incorporate an intent requirement, what function does that phrase serve?  The Government’s theory is that the phrase limits the elements clause to crimes involving force against people, as opposed to property.  See id., at 23.  That would give the clause some work to do in ACCA.  But as noted earlier, the statute at issue in Leocal does not make that distinction: To repeat, §16(a)’s “against” phrase refers to uses of force “against the person or property of another.”  §16(a) (emphasis added); see supra, at 6.  In other words, §16(a) lists both of the two (and only two) plausible objects of force.  So the Government’s intent-less reading would leave the “against” phrase in §16(a) without any function; it would render the phrase surplusage.  Far from thinking such a thing possible, the Leocal Court considered §16(a)’s “against” phrase “key” and “critical”—again, because it (in combination with the “use of force” language) defines the requisite “degree of intent.”  543 U. S., at 9.  Unlike the Government, we favor a construction consonant with that view.  The “against” phrase indeed sets out a mens rea requirement—of purposeful or knowing conduct.

															2

															The dissent offers up two “alternative”—really, mutually inconsistent—counter-arguments about the elements clause’s text.  In the first, the dissent claims to find a “term of art” in the clause—implicitly admitting that the language, as ordinarily understood, excludes reckless conduct.  See West Virginia Univ. Hospitals, Inc. v. Casey,

499 U.S. 83, 92, n. 5 (1991) (noting that terms of art “depart from ordinary meaning”).  Here, the dissent is all on its own: Neither the Government nor any of the many courts that have looked at this issue has advanced this term-of-art theory.  In the second, the dissent goes more conventional, essentially repeating what the Government says, though with a distinctively question-begging quality.  The term-of-art claim fails because the dissent’s proposed term does not appear in—and indeed differs in critical ways from—the elements clause’s text.  The ordinary-meaning claim fails for reasons already familiar.

															The dissent tries to sidestep the parties’ dispute over ordinary meaning by depicting the “against” phrase as a “term of art” having “zero to do with mens rea.”  Post, at 5, 13 (opinion of Kavanaugh, J.).  In the dissent’s words: “[W]e should not disregard the longstanding meaning of a criminal-law term of art—namely, offenses against the person—to smuggle” a mens rea requirement into the elements clause.  Post, at 13.  The dissent here relies on the appearance in many state criminal codes of headings and captions using the phrase “Offenses Against the Person.”  Post, at 7; see, e.g., La. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 14, ch. 1, pt. 2 (West 2016) (listing offenses—spanning homicide, negligent DUI, and defamation—under the chapter heading “offenses against the person”).

															But note how this argument breaks down at its first move: The dissent offers up a “term of art” that is nowhere in the statute the dissent is supposed to be construing.  The dissent does not pretend that the statutory phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” is a term of art; there is not, even in the dissent’s imagining, any historical or distinctly legal meaning associated with that language.  The dissent instead insists on reading into ACCA a term-of-art meaning for a phrase—“offenses against the person”—that makes no appearance there.  That is no way to do statutory construction.  The first precondition of any term-of-art reading is that the term be present in the disputed statute.  Here, it is not.  See Food Marketing Institute v. Argus Leader Media, 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 10) (similarly rejecting an attempt to “rearrang[e]” statutory text to create a “term of art” that “does not appear in the statute”).

															And indeed, the dissent’s extra-statutory term differs in a critical way from the actual language of the actual elements clause.  As discussed above, the “against” phrase in that clause modifies the “use of physical force”—language this Court has held (and the dissent concedes) denotes volitional conduct.  It is, as explained above, the pairing of volitional action with the word “against” that produces its oppositional or directed meaning—and excludes recklessness from the statute.  See supra, at 9–10.  Nor is that only our explanation: As noted earlier, Leocal said the identical thing about nearly identical statutory language, focusing on the interplay of “use” and “against” to conclude that the language had everything—not “zero”—to do with mens rea.  See 543 U. S., at 9 (holding that the whole phrase “most naturally suggests a higher degree of intent”); supra, at 11.  So it is no small thing that the dissent, in its term-of-art machinations, removes the verb phrase “use of physical force” and substitutes the simple noun “offenses.”  In so doing, it has replaced the very thing that shapes the “against” phrase’s meaning.  Once again, statutory construction does not work that way: A court does not get to delete inconvenient language and insert convenient language to yield the court’s preferred meaning.

															Finally, consider where the dissent looks for its supposed “offenses against the person” term of art.  Not to any statute defining crimes or setting penalties (as ACCA does).  Rather to headings and captions designed to cover a myriad of offenses, from homicide through defamation.  They are umbrella terms used for cataloguing crimes—nothing more.  That is why the dissent cites no judicial decision construing the term, much less saying anything about what it means for mens rea.  The term cannot have a traditional or commonplace meaning in statutes specifying criminal conduct: It does not appear in them in the first place.

															In a nutshell, the dissent’s “term of art” theory goes as follows: Congress took an umbrella term (“offenses against the person”) used to organize a broad set of crimes (some not even conceivably ACCA predicates); plucked out three words (“against the person”); appended them to a statutory phrase (“use of physical force”) with which they are not often associated; put the combination into a substantive criminal statute—all to signify, contra Leocal, a term of art indifferent to mens rea.  No wonder the dissent is the first to make the argument.  See supra, at 12.  It fails at every turn.

															And so the dissent must proceed to its ordinary-meaning claim, reprising (if at higher volume) the Government’s flawed argument about what the “against” phrase is most naturally read to encompass.  Here, the dissent insists that because reckless force can make contact with a person—e.g., because a reckless driver can run over a pedestrian—the statute must encompass that conduct.  See post, at 20–22.  But that just assumes the conclusion: The very question here is whether the statutory language Congress enacted requires that force be directed at, rather than just happen to hit, an object.  As to that issue, the dissent asserts that “[s]tate and federal reporters” are “replete with references to individuals recklessly using force against others.”  Post, at 18–19, and n. 15 (quoting, for example, a decision saying that a “jury found that Arton did not intentionally or recklessly use excessive force against Cook”).  But once again, the dissent is putting the rabbit in the hat.  If Congress had used the word “recklessly” in the elements clause, we would have to interpret that clause to cover reckless offenses, even though the best reading of the clause without that word goes the other way.  But Congress did not say “recklessly.”  And we must construe the elements clause as it is—without first inserting the word that will (presto!) produce the dissent’s reading.[6]

															B

															Were there any doubt about the elements clause’s meaning, context and purpose would remove it.

															The elements clause defines a “violent felony,” and that term’s ordinary meaning informs our construction.  Leocal well expressed this idea: In interpreting §16(a), “we cannot forget that we ultimately are determining the meaning of the term ‘crime of violence.’ ”  543 U. S., at 11.  Quoting that statement, Johnson v. United States said the same thing when construing language (there, the term “physical force”) in ACCA’s definition of “violent felony.”  559 U. S., at 140.  “Ultimately, context determines meaning,” we wrote, and “[h]ere we are interpreting” a phrase “as used in defining” the term “violent felony.”  Id., at 139–140.  With that focus in place, both decisions construed the definitions at issue to mark out a narrow “category of violent, active crimes.”  Id., at 140; 543 U. S., at 11.  And those crimes are best understood to involve not only a substantial degree of force, but also a purposeful or knowing mental state—a deliberate choice of wreaking harm on another, rather than mere indifference to risk.  As Leocal explained: The term “crime of violence” in §16(a) “cannot be said naturally to include DUI offenses”—typically crimes of recklessness or negligence.  Ibid.  In a case much like this one, then-Judge Alito reiterated the point.  He wrote that “[t]he quintessential violent crimes,” like murder or rape, “involve the intentional use” of force.  Oyebanji v. Gonzales, 418 F.3d 260, 264 (CA3 2005).  By contrast, drunk driving and other crimes of recklessness, though “moral[ly] culpab[le],” do not fit within “the ordinary meaning of the term ‘violent’ crime.”  Ibid.

															Nor does the classification of reckless crimes as “violent felonies” comport with ACCA’s purpose.  Congress enacted ACCA, as noted earlier, to address “the special danger created when a particular type of offender—a violent criminal[ ]—possesses a gun.”  Begay, 553 U. S., at 146; see supra, at 1–2.  In keeping with that concern, ACCA sets out to identify, for sentencing purposes, the eponymous “armed career criminal”—the sort of offender who, when armed, “might deliberately point the gun and pull the trigger.”  Begay, 553 U. S., at 145–146.  The Act discharges that goal by looking to a person’s criminal history.  An offender who has repeatedly committed “purposeful, violent, and aggressive” crimes, we have explained, poses an uncommon danger of “us[ing a] gun deliberately to harm a victim.”  Id., at 145.  But that is not so—as this Court has recognized—of someone convicted of a crime, like a DUI offense, revealing only a “degree of callousness toward risk.”  Id., at 146.  However blameworthy, the reckless (or negligent) conduct involved in such a crime is “far removed” from the “deliberate kind of behavior associated with violent criminal use of firearms.”  Id., at 147.  So there is no reason, consistent with ACCA’s focus on armed career criminals, for reckless offenses to precipitate the statute’s enhanced sentences.[7]

															Consider the kinds of crimes—the too-common stuff of ordinary offenders—that would trigger ACCA’s 15-year minimums if we adopted the Government’s (or dissent’s) position.  Many convictions for reckless crimes result from unsafe driving.  Under the same Tennessee reckless-assault law applied to Borden, people have been convicted for injuries attributable to running a stop sign or veering onto the sidewalk.  See State v. Graham, 2008 WL 199851, *2–*4 (Tenn. Crim. App., Jan. 24, 2008); State v. Gillon, 15 S.W.3d 492, 496–497 (Tenn. Crim. App. 1997).  In States with similar statutes requiring only a reckless mens rea, many individuals have been convicted for accidents resulting from text messaging or, of course, drunk driving.  See, e.g., State v. Belleville, 166 N. H. 58, 63–64, 88 A.3d 918, 922 (2014); State v. Reando, 313 S.W.3d 734, 740 (Mo. App. 2010).  In one case, even a police officer was convicted of a reckless assault for speeding to a crime scene without his siren on and hitting another patrol car.  See Seaton v. State, 385 S.W.3d 85, 88–89 (Tex. Crim. App. 2012).  Or take some real-life non-driving examples.  A shoplifter jumps off a mall’s second floor balcony while fleeing security only to land on a customer.  See Craver v. State, 2015 WL 3918057, *2 (Tex. App., June 25, 2015).  An experienced skier heads straight down a steep, mogul-filled slope, “back on his skis, arms out to his sides, off-balance”—until he careens into someone else on the hill.  People v. Hall, 999 P.2d 207, 211 (Colo. 2000).  Or a father takes his two-year-old go-karting without safety equipment, and injures her as he takes a sharp turn.  See State v. Gimino, 2015 WL 13134204, *1 (Wis. App., Apr. 15, 2015).

															Are these really ACCA predicates?  All the defendants in the cases just described acted recklessly, taking substantial and unjustified risks.  And all the defendants hurt other people, some seriously, along the way.  But few would say their convictions were for “violent felonies.”  See Leocal, 543 U. S., at 4 (holding that a “DUI causing serious bodily injury” is not a “crime of violence”). Few would think their offenses of a kind “typically committed by” armed career criminals.  Begay, 553 U. S., at 146.  And few would believe those defendants to pose an exceptional danger of doing harm were they to possess a gun.  See id., at 145–146.  Extending the elements clause to reckless offenses would thus do exactly what Leocal decried: “blur the distinction between the ‘violent’ crimes Congress sought to distinguish for heightened punishment and [all] other crimes.”  543 U. S., at 11.[8]

															The Government’s response (echoed in the dissent)—that statutes covering reckless conduct can also “cover[ ] classically violent crimes”—has no purchase given ACCA’s categorical approach.  Brief for United States 41; see post, at 34–37.  The Government lists, for example, several prosecutions for serious beatings brought under the Tennessee law prohibiting reckless aggravated assault.  See Brief for United States 42 (describing cases in which a defendant “slamm[ed] his fist into the face of a man” and another defendant “looked the victim directly in the eye” and kicked her).  In those cases, the State presumably decided to charge a defendant with reckless (rather than purposeful or knowing) assault because of some problem or idiosyncrasy in the case.  (In the two cases described, for instance, one of the defendants was high on drugs, and the other had a plausible self-defense claim.)  But under the categorical approach, the existence of such cases is neither here nor there.  An offense does not qualify as a “violent felony” unless the least serious conduct it covers falls within the elements clause.  See Moncrieffe v. Holder,

569 U.S. 184, 190–191 (2013) (“Because we examine what the state conviction necessarily involved, not the facts underlying the case, we must presume that the conviction rested upon nothing more than the least of the acts criminalized” (alterations and internal quotation marks omitted)); supra, at 2–3.  That approach is under-inclusive by design: It expects that some violent acts, because charged under a law applying to non-violent conduct, will not trigger enhanced sentences.  So what matters are not the convictions the Government offers, but those for, say, running a stop sign or skiing too wildly.  Because a law criminalizing recklessness covers—indeed, was likely designed for—that kind of conduct, the offense cannot count as a violent felony.

															C

															To all of this, the Government offers one main response: this Court’s decision in Voisine.  (And again, the dissent reiterates the Government’s arguments.  See post, at 23–30.)  As described earlier, Voisine held that the definition of “misdemeanor crime of domestic violence”—featuring the simple phrase “use of physical force”—includes reckless conduct.  18 U. S. C. §§922(g)(9), 921(a)(33)(A); see supra, at 6–7.  The Government acknowledges that Voisine expressly left open the question presented here.  See 579 U. S., at ___, n. 4 (slip op., at 7, n. 4).  But in the Government’s view, the “logic” of that decision establishes that ACCA’s elements clause, too, covers reckless offenses.  Brief for United States 14.  “Voisine’s key insight,” the Government says, “is that the word ‘use’ refers to the ‘act of employing something’ and does not require a purposeful or knowing state of mind.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).  That insight, the Government concludes, “applies equally to the ACCA’s elements clause.”  Id., at 8.  But the Government’s argument ignores the textual difference between the two statutes—not the word “use” (which is indeed the same), but the “against” phrase on which our holding is based.  And so too, the argument disregards how the context and purpose of the statute in Voisine diverge from those of ACCA’s elements clause.

															Most important, the two statutes’ texts, when read in their entirety, refute the Government’s (and the dissent’s) position.  The domestic violence definition in Voisine refers only to offenses involving the “use of physical force”; it lacks the ensuing phrase “against the person of another.”  Voisine thus focused exclusively on the word “use”—as the Court noted, “[t]he only statutory language either party [thought] relevant.”  579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  That word, the Court explained, requires a volitional act, but not a purposeful or knowing mens rea.  See id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 5–6).  And so we would say again today.  For the mens rea requirement we find in ACCA’s elements clause does not come from the word “use.”  It instead comes from modifying language that is missing in the domestic-violence provision (and missing, too, in the Government’s argument): “against the person of another.”  That phrase, as Leocal recognized, is not window dressing: It is the “critical” text for deciding the level of mens rea needed.  543 U. S., at 9.  As we have explained, “against the person of another,” when modifying the “use of physical force,” introduces that action’s conscious object.  See supra, at 9–10.  So it excludes conduct, like recklessness, that is not directed or targeted at another.  Because Voisine construed a statutory provision without that intent-laden language, the decision cannot tell us what ACCA’s elements clause requires.  See Walker v. United States, 931 F.3d 467, 469–470 (CA6 2019) (Kethledge, J., dissenting from denial of reh’g en banc) (“Voisine tells us what ‘use’ means, not what ‘against the person of another’ means”).  Thus does a “difference in text yield[ ] a difference in meaning.”  Id., at 468.[9]

															Likewise, context and purpose distinguish the two statutes.  The provision in Voisine defines not a “violent felony” but a “misdemeanor crime of domestic violence.”  It focuses on those convicted not of serious felony offenses, but instead of “garden-variety assault or battery misdemeanors.”  579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8).  And it captures not “violent, active” conduct alone, see supra, at 16–17, but also “acts that one might not characterize as ‘violent’ in a nondomestic context.”  United States v. Castleman,

572 U.S. 157, 165 (2014) (referring to “[m]inor uses of force” like “grabbing [and] pinching”).  Given those surrounding differences in coverage, it is hardly remarkable that the domestic violence provision would include reckless behavior when ACCA’s elements clause does not.  And relatedly, the two statutes accomplish dissimilar things.  The provision in Voisine adds misdemeanant domestic abusers to a long list of people (including felons, substance abusers, and the mentally ill) disqualified from possessing a gun.  See §922(g)(1)–(9); Castleman, 572 U. S., at 166–167.  The recidivist offenders to whom ACCA applies are already subject to that disability.  The statute additionally imposes on them—precisely because they are “armed career criminals,” not ordinary offenders—greatly enhanced prison sentences.  So again, we see nothing surprising—rather, the opposite—in the two statutes’ dissimilar treatment of reckless crimes.

															IV

															Offenses with a mens rea of recklessness do not qualify as violent felonies under ACCA.  They do not require, as ACCA does, the active employment of force against another person.  And they are not the stuff of armed career criminals.  The judgment below is therefore reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

															

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
 See United States v. Burris, 920 F.3d 942, 951 (CA5 2019); United States v. Haight, 892 F.3d 1271, 1281 (CADC 2018); United States v. Pam, 867 F.3d 1191, 1207–1208 (CA10 2017); United States v. Fogg, 836 F.3d 951, 956 (CA8 2016). 

2
 See United States v. Begay, 934 F.3d 1033, 1039 (CA9 2019); United States v. Moss, 920 F.3d 752, 756 (CA11 2019), vacated pending reh’g en banc. 

3
 The difference between purpose and knowledge matters for certain “classes of crimes,” where “heightened culpability has been thought to merit special attention.”  United States v. Bailey,

444 U.S. 394, 405 (1980).  The most typical examples are inchoate crimes (conspiracy or attempts) and accessory liability (aiding and abetting).  There, a purposeful mental state may help separate criminal conduct from innocent behavior.  See ibid.; United States v. Falcone, 109 F.2d 579, 581 (CA2 1940) (L. Hand, J.); Model Penal Code, Comment 2, p. 234.  We have no occasion to address those offenses, nor the relationship more generally between purpose and knowledge. 

4
 Some States recognize mental states (often called “depraved heart” or “extreme recklessness”) between recklessness and knowledge.  We have no occasion to address whether offenses with those mental states fall within the elements clause. 

5
 In similar manner, the examples that dictionaries give of the “in contact with” meaning of “against” all involve non-volitional conduct.  See, e.g., American Heritage Dictionary 23 (1981) (those same big “waves dashing against the shore”); Webster’s New International Dictionary, at 46 (“hail beats against the roof ”); Webster’s Third New International Dictionary 39 (1981) (“the fighter was knocked back against the ropes”).  By contrast, when the dictionaries discuss the “in opposition to” meaning, their examples turn volitional.  See id., at 39 (“a successful campaign against the enemy”); American Heritage Dictionary, at 23 (a “struggle against fate”). 

6
 The dissent also goes through a complicated counting exercise about how different Justices have divided in this and two other cases, apparently to show how unfair it is that the dissent’s view has not prevailed here.  See post, at 4, n. 3.  But there is nothing particularly unusual about today’s line-up.  Four Justices think that the “use” phrase, as modified by the “against” phrase, in ACCA’s elements clause excludes reckless conduct.  One Justice thinks, consistent with his previously stated view, that the “use” phrase alone accomplishes that result.  See post, at 2 (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment).  And that makes five to answer the question presented.  Q: Does the elements clause exclude reckless conduct?  A: Yes, it does.  

7
 The dissent would upend our consistent view of Congress’s purpose by treating as ACCA predicates not just “purposeful, violent, and aggressive” crimes but the disregard-of-risk offenses we have found “far removed.”  Begay, 553 U. S., at 145, 147.  The “line for criminal liability,” the dissent argues, is generally drawn at recklessness, and so the Model Penal Code “establishes recklessness as the default minimum mens rea.”  Post, at 15, 16.  But we have never suggested that the threshold for criminal liability is the threshold for ACCA, or that ACCA is about offenders who meet “minimum” requirements.  To the contrary.  As just noted, we have insisted on a higher threshold: ACCA predicates are the crimes “typically committed by those whom one normally labels ‘armed career criminals’ ”—whose very possession of a gun poses a “special danger.”  Begay, 553 U. S., at 146. 

8
 The dissent—once again, contrary to the statute’s design—would blur that distinction, on the ground that crimes like reckless driving can cause great harm.  See post, at 32–34.  Of course they can.  But in viewing that fact as controlling, the dissent runs into not just ACCA but pretty much all of sentencing law.  That law almost invariably turns on mental state as well as harm.  Consider the Tennessee statute giving rise to this case.  Borden’s reckless assault conviction carried a sentence of two to twelve years; but had he been convicted of purposeful or knowing assault, the sentencing range would have been three to fifteen years.  Compare Tenn. Code Ann. §§39–13–102(2), 40–35–111(b)(4), with §§39–13–102(1), 40–35–111(b)(3).  In imposing lesser penalties for recklessness, Tennessee—like the mine run of States with similar penalty schemes—is not suggesting that such offenses are “benign.”  Post, at 15.  They are recognizing, though, that mental state matters to culpability—and more, that an act done recklessly often should not receive as harsh a punishment as the same act done purposefully or knowingly, even when the two cause the same harm.  That approach is the one ACCA takes in reserving enhanced penalties for multiple instances of purposeful and knowing, but not reckless, conduct.  The dissent would write a different statute, based on a different theory of criminal punishment.  But the dissent’s preferred approach is not the one Congress enacted into law.  And the dissent does not get to tell Congress that, in writing the statute it wrote, it failed to enhance penalties for gun possession enough. 

9
  In one paragraph of its brief, the Government tries to erase this textual difference by invoking a sentence in Voisine that uses the word “against.”  See Brief for United States 24.  (The dissent does the same, if at greater length.  See post, at 19–20, 26–27.)  Recall that the domestic violence statute bars someone from owning a gun if he has been convicted of a misdemeanor that has, as an element, the “use” of physical force “committed by a current or former spouse, parent, or guardian of the victim” or by a person in another of three specified relations with the victim.  §921(a)(33)(A); see supra, at 6–7.  Rather than echo that awkward construction, the Court used shorthand, describing the statute as applying to a person with a “misdemeanor conviction for the ‘use . . . of physical force’ against a domestic relation.”  579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12).  In the Government’s view, that line shows that we “treated the statute as if it contained a prepositional phrase similar to the ACCA’s” (and still found it to include reckless conduct).  Brief for United States 24.  We think that a stretch.  The locution shows only that sometimes we do not paraphrase complex statutory language as well as we might.  (Mea culpa.)  What matters in Voisine is not a one-line description, but a pages-long analysis of the statutory text—and that discussion gives no support to the Government.  Rather than imply an “against” clause, Voisine focused like a laser on the meaning of “use”—because we understood the statute to say nothing else.  See, e.g., 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (“Nothing in the word ‘use’—which is the only statutory language either party thinks relevant—indicates that §922(g)(9) applies exclusively to knowing or intentional domestic assaults.”); id., at ___ (slip op., at 6) (citing examples to show “the ordinary meaning of the word ‘use’ ”).  “[T]he language of an opinion,” we have stated, “is not always to be parsed as though we were dealing with language of a statute.”  Reiter v. Sonotone Corp.,

442 U.S. 330, 341 (1979).  And that is most obviously true when an opinion’s language revises (for easier reading) the statute’s own.  Better to heed the statutory language proper. 


