::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-013
::decision_cite:: 19-5410
::decision_name::  Borden v. United States
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–5410

															_________________

															CHARLES BORDEN, Jr., PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[June 10, 2021]

															

															Justice Kavanaugh, with whom The Chief Justice, Justice Alito, and Justice Barrett join, dissenting.

															In 1984, Congress passed and President Reagan signed the Armed Career Criminal Act, known as ACCA.  That Act seeks to prevent individuals with a serious record of violent crimes from unlawfully possessing firearms and committing additional violent crimes.  As amended in 1986, the Act generally mandates a minimum 15-year prison sentence for any felon who has amassed at least three prior convictions for a “violent felony” and then commits a fourth felony by unlawfully possessing firearms.

															ACCA defines the predicate “violent felony” offenses to cover, among other things, an offense punishable by a prison term exceeding one year that “has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person of another.”

18 U. S. C. §924(e)(2)(B)(i) (emphasis added).  By defining violent felony in that manner, Congress ensured that the prototypical felonies involving physical force against a person—in particular, assault, homicide, rape, and robbery—would qualify as predicate offenses under ACCA.

															ACCA does not ensnare low-level offenders or small-time criminals.  Rather, as relevant here, ACCA applies only to individuals who have been previously convicted of three separate violent felonies committed on different occasions, and who then proceed to commit a fourth felony by unlawfully possessing firearms.  Congress determined that those serial violent felons pose serious risks of harm to American communities and warrant a 15-year mandatory minimum sentence under ACCA.[1]

															In this case, Charles Borden was convicted in 2018 for unlawfully possessing a firearm in violation of §922(g)(1).  The District Court concluded that Borden was subject to ACCA because of his three prior convictions in 2002, 2003, and 2007 for aggravated assault under Tennessee law.[2]

															Borden does not dispute that his 2002 and 2003 Tennessee felony convictions—which were for intentional or knowing aggravated assault—constituted violent felonies for purposes of ACCA.  But he challenges the classification of his 2007 Tennessee felony conviction—which was for reckless aggravated assault.  Borden argues that reckless felonies do not qualify as predicate offenses under ACCA.  According to Borden, a crime committed recklessly, such as reckless assault or reckless homicide, does not entail the “use of physical force against the person of another.”  Instead, Borden contends, only intentional or knowing felonies satisfy that statutory definition.

															Most States criminalize reckless assault and reckless homicide.  And the Model Penal Code and most States provide that recklessness as to the consequences of one’s actions generally suffices for criminal liability.  Importantly, moreover, Borden does not dispute that ACCA’s phrase “use of physical force” on its own would include reckless offenses, such as reckless assault or reckless homicide.  But Borden nonetheless contends that ACCA’s phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” somehow excludes those same reckless offenses, including reckless assault and reckless homicide.

															To put Borden’s argument in real-world terms, suppose that an individual drives a car 80 miles per hour through a neighborhood, runs over a child, and paralyzes her.  He did not intend to run over and injure the child.  He did not know to a practical certainty that he would run over and injure the child.  But he consciously disregarded a substantial and unjustifiable risk that he would harm another person, and he is later convicted in state court of reckless assault.  Or suppose that an individual is in a dispute with someone in the neighborhood and begins firing gunshots at the neighbor’s house to scare him.  One shot goes through the window and hits the neighbor, killing him.  The shooter may not have intended to kill the neighbor or known to a practical certainty that he would do so.  But again, he consciously disregarded a substantial and unjustifiable risk that he would harm someone, and he is later convicted in state court of reckless homicide.

															Surprisingly, the Court today holds that those kinds of reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide do not qualify as ACCA predicates under the use-of-force clause.  The plurality does not dispute that those offenses involve the “use of physical force,” but concludes that those offenses do not involve the “use of physical force against the person of another.”  The plurality reaches that rather mystifying conclusion even though someone who acts recklessly, as those examples show, has made a “deliberate decision to endanger another,” Voisine v. United States,

579 U.S. 686, ___ (2016) (slip op., at 7), and even though an individual who commits a reckless assault or a reckless homicide generally inflicts injury or death on another person.  The plurality reaches that conclusion even though most States (both as of 1986 and today) criminalize reckless assault and reckless homicide as offenses against the person, and even though Congress enacted ACCA’s use-of-force clause in 1986 to cover the prototypical violent crimes, such as assault and homicide, that can be committed with a mens rea of recklessness.  And the plurality reaches that conclusion even though the Court concluded just five years ago (when interpreting a similarly worded domestic violence statute) that reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide do entail the use of physical force against another person—there, “against a domestic relation” or “victim.”  See id., at ___ (slip op., at 12);

18 U. S. C. §921(a)(33)(A).

															In my view, the Court’s decision disregards bedrock principles and longstanding terminology of criminal law, misconstrues ACCA’s text, and waves away the Court’s own recent precedent.  The Court’s decision overrides Congress’s judgment about the danger posed by recidivist violent felons who unlawfully possess firearms and threaten further violence.  I respectfully dissent.[3]

															I

															The Court holds that the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” in ACCA’s violent felony definition applies only to crimes that entail an intentional or knowing use of force against another person, not to crimes that entail a reckless use of force against another person.  In reaching that conclusion, the plurality does not dispute that the statutory phrase “use of physical force” on its own would encompass reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide.  See ante, at 6–7; see also Voisine v. United States,

579 U.S. 686 (2016).  But the plurality seizes on the additional phrase “against the person of another.”  According to the plurality, the combined statutory phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” excludes reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide.  

															As a matter of textual interpretation, that analysis is seriously flawed for two independent reasons, either of which suffices to defeat the plurality’s conclusion.  First, the phrase “against the person of another” in criminal statutes like ACCA has zero to do with mens rea.  That phrase instead reflects a centuries-old term of art in the criminal law that distinguishes offenses against the person from offenses against property.  Second, even if the phrase “against the person of another” did not reflect a longstanding term of art, the ordinary meaning of the statutory phrase “use of physical force against the person of another”—just like the phrase “use of physical force”—encompasses reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide.

															A

															First, and most fundamentally, the phrase “against the person of another” in ACCA has zero to do with the required mens rea for predicate violent felonies.  That phrase simply incorporates established nomenclature for classifying crimes and reflects a longstanding criminal-law term of art that distinguishes offenses against the person from offenses against property.  As the Government explains, that phrase simply “limits the scope” of the use-of-force clause to “crimes involving force applied to another person, thereby excluding many property crimes, like arson.”  Brief for United States 23.

															When Congress “borrows terms of art in which are accumulated the legal tradition and meaning of centuries of practice,” we generally assume that Congress “knows and adopts the cluster of ideas that were attached to each borrowed word in the body of learning from which it was taken.”  Morissette v. United States,

342 U.S. 246, 263 (1952); see also Air Wisconsin Airlines Corp. v. Hoeper,

571 U.S. 237, 248 (2014); Sekhar v. United States,

570 U.S. 729, 733 (2013); A. Scalia & B. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 73–77, 305 (2012).

															So it is here.  For centuries, criminal offenses have typically been broken down into categories—including, most prominently, offenses against the person and offenses against property.

															An offense against the person is often defined as a “crime against the body of another human being.”  Black’s Law Dictionary 1302 (11th ed. 2019) (“offense against the person”).  The object of the offense is a person.  Those offenses include, for example, assault, homicide, rape, and robbery.

															An offense against property is often defined as a “crime against another’s personal property.”  Ibid. (“offense against property”).  The object of the offense is property.  Those offenses include, for example, burglary, arson, extortion, fraud, and destruction of property.  

															That nomenclature has a long historical pedigree originating in the common law.  Blackstone, for example, sets forth various categories of “Public Wrongs,” which include “Offences against the Persons of Individuals” and “Offences against Private Property.”  4 Commentaries on the Laws of England, chs. 15, 17 (1769) (emphasis in original); see also H. Stephen, Summary of the Criminal Law (1834) (setting forth categories of criminal offenses including “Offences against the Person” and “Larceny and Other Offences against Property”); W. Auckland, Principles of Penal Law (2d ed. 1771) (setting forth categories of criminal offenses including “[o]ther Crimes relative to the Persons of Individuals” and “Crimes relative to Property”).

															Those classifications remain prevalent today.  Like Blackstone, most state criminal codes categorize criminal offenses and employ the terminology of offenses against the person and offenses against property.[4]  

															That was also true back in 1986 when Congress amended ACCA to include the use-of-force clause.  Tennessee’s criminal code illustrates the point.  As of 1986, criminal offenses under Tennessee law fell under one of several chapter headings, including “Offenses Against the Person” and “Offenses Against Property,” among others.  See Tenn. Code. Ann., Tit. 39, chs. 2, 3 (1982).  At least 32 other state criminal codes employed similar nomenclature at the time of ACCA’s amendment in 1986.[5]

															The Model Penal Code, which was adopted in 1962, likewise uses that nomenclature.  The Code identifies two broad categories of crimes as “Offenses Involving Danger to the Person” and “Offenses Against Property.”  ALI, Model Penal Code, pt. II (1980).  

															Leading treatises on criminal law similarly group most offenses into those two broad categories: “Offenses Against the Person” and “Offenses Against Property.”  2–3 W. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law, pts. III, IV (3d ed. 2018); 2 C. Torcia, Wharton’s Criminal Law, pt. II (15th ed. 1994); 3 id., pt. V (1995); see also 2 W. LaFave & A. Scott, Substantive Criminal Law, chs. 7, 8 (1986) (“Crimes Against the Person” and “Crimes Relating to Property”); 2 Torcia, Wharton’s Criminal Law, pt. II (14th ed. 1979) (“Offenses Against the Person”); 3 id., pt. V (1980) (“Offenses Against Property”). 

															As those many examples show, the phrase “offenses against the person” may be worded in slightly different ways, but each variation serves to distinguish offenses against the person from other kinds of offenses, including offenses against property.  Cf. Black’s Law Dictionary, at 1302 (cross-referencing definition of “offense against the person” with “crimes against persons”).

															In 1986, Congress amended ACCA to cover violent felonies.  Not surprisingly, ACCA’s definition of “violent felony” tracks that historically rooted and still common nomenclature.  The definition provides in relevant part: 

															“[T]he term ‘violent felony’ means any crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year . . . that—

															“(i) has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person of another; or

															“(ii) is burglary, arson, or extortion, involves use of explosives, or otherwise involves conduct that presents a serious potential risk of physical injury to another.”

18 U. S. C. §924(e)(2)(B) (emphases added). 

															The first clause of the violent felony definition (the use-of-force clause) encompasses offenses involving force against the person—and thus necessarily includes assault, homicide, rape, and robbery.[6]  The second clause of that definition (the enumerated-offenses clause) lists certain physically risky offenses against property—in particular, burglary, arson, extortion, and offenses involving the use of explosives.  See Taylor v. United States,

495 U.S. 575, 584–587 (1990).

															This Court’s precedents have drawn that same distinction when analyzing ACCA’s violent felony definition.  In Begay v. United States, for example, the Court stated that violent felonies under ACCA “include both crimes against the person (clause (i)) and certain physically risky crimes against property (clause (ii)).”

553 U.S. 137, 144 (2008).

															The statutory history further illustrates the distinction.  When originally enacted in 1984, ACCA covered only robbery (an offense against the person) and burglary (an offense against property).  18 U. S. C. App. §1202(a) (1982 ed., Supp. II).  In 1986, Congress expanded the scope of violent crimes covered under ACCA.  Congress added the use-of-force clause so as to encompass not just robbery but also additional offenses against the person, such as assault, homicide, and rape.  And Congress added the second clause to encompass not just burglary but also some additional physically risky offenses against property, including arson, extortion, and use of explosives.[7]

															In short, the phrase “against the person of another” in ACCA specifies the category of crimes to which the use-of-force clause applies and limits the reach of the clause by excluding other categories of crimes—in particular, crimes against property.  

															That understanding of the phrase “against the person of another” also helps to make sense of other, similarly worded statutory definitions.  Take

18 U. S. C. §16(a), which defines the term “crime of violence” for purposes of many other federal criminal and immigration laws.  That definition includes any “offense that has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person or property of another.”  Ibid. (emphasis added).  Like ACCA’s use-of-force clause, §16(a)’s “against” phrase simply specifies the category of offenses to which the statute applies, using established nomenclature.  The only difference between the two definitions is that §16(a) covers crimes “against property” in addition to crimes “against the person.”[8]

															Finally, state practice confirms that the phrase “against the person of another” in ACCA reflects a longstanding term of art and is not an oblique and novel way of excluding reckless offenses.  As of 1986, when Congress amended ACCA to include the use-of-force clause, 28 States had reckless assault statutes, and more than 30 States had statutes that covered reckless homicide.  See Brief for United States 19–21, and nn. 4–7.  Most of those States classified those crimes as offenses against the person, see n. 5, supra— even though those crimes only required a mens rea of recklessness.  

															Congress legislated against the backdrop of those state criminal laws.  It strains credulity to say that in ACCA, Congress both (i) mirrored the traditional “against the person” terminology from those state criminal codes that included reckless assault and reckless homicide, but (ii) nonetheless silently intended that common and traditional language to take on a novel and obscure meaning that would exclude reckless assault and reckless homicide.  As the Court has stated before, we “should not lightly conclude that Congress enacted a self-defeating statute.”  Quarles v. United States, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 8); see also Stokeling v. United States, 586 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 8).  If Congress in 1986 wanted to exclude from ACCA’s scope all of those state criminal laws covering reckless crimes against the person—including reckless assaults and reckless homicides—Congress easily could have said (and surely would have said) that only “intentional or knowing” uses of force were covered.  It did not.  And we should not disregard the longstanding meaning of a criminal-law term of art—namely, offenses against the person—to smuggle into ACCA a new and unusual mens rea requirement that Congress did not see fit to include.

															The plurality claims that the exact words “offense against the person” or “crime against the person” do not appear in ACCA’s use-of-force clause.  Ante, at 13–15.  But in fact, Congress used the phrase “against the person of another” in the use-of-force clause to describe the “crime[s]” that are covered by ACCA.  §924(e)(2)(B).  By using that language, Congress incorporated a historically rooted and widely used nomenclature for classifying crimes, and thus narrowed the category of offenses to which that clause applies—namely, to offenses against the person.  

															To sum up: The plurality does not dispute that reckless offenses entail the “use of physical force.”  The plurality argues, however, that reckless offenses do not entail the “use of physical force against the person of another.”  But the phrase “against the person of another” reflects longstanding criminal-law nomenclature—a term of art—that specifies the category of covered predicate offenses that involve the use of force, such as assault, homicide, rape, and robbery.  That language has zero to do with the mens rea required for predicate offenses under ACCA.   That conclusion should end this case given that the plurality acknowledges that the phrase “use of physical force” otherwise encompasses reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide.  

															B

															Second, in the alternative, even if we divorce the phrase “against the person of another” from its term-of-art usage in criminal law, as the plurality mistakenly does, that phrase as a matter of ordinary meaning still does not speak to mens rea and cannot reasonably be read to exclude reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide.  Instead, as the Court recognized in Voisine v. United States in interpreting a “similarly worded” statute covering the “use of physical force,” ACCA’s use-of-force clause is “indifferent as to whether the actor has the mental state of intention, knowledge, or recklessness” with respect to the consequences of using force.  579 U. S., at ___, ___, n. 4 (slip op., at 6, 8, n. 4).

															To understand the ordinary meaning of the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another,” first consider that the criminal law ordinarily imposes criminal liability when the defendant acts with intent, knowledge, or recklessness as to the consequences of his actions.  A person acts intentionally (or said otherwise, purposefully) with respect to the harmful consequences of his actions if he has those consequences as his “conscious object.”  Model Penal Code §2.02(2)(a)(i) (1985).  A person acts knowingly with respect to the harmful consequences of his actions if he is “aware that it is practically certain that his conduct will cause” those consequences.  Id., §2.02(2)(b)(ii).  And a person acts recklessly “when he consciously disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk” that his conduct will result in harm to another person.  Id., §2.02(2)(c).

															The line between knowing and reckless crimes is thin.  The difference between (i) conduct with knowledge as to the consequences on the one hand and (ii) conduct with recklessness as to the consequences on the other hand is that the risk of harm associated with knowledge is somewhat higher than the risk of harm associated with recklessness.  In particular, to act with knowledge that harm will occur, a defendant must know that harm is “practically certain” to occur.  Id., §2.02(2)(b)(ii).  To act with recklessness as to whether harm will occur, a defendant need not know with practical certainty that harm will occur—but he still must know that he is disregarding a substantial and unjustifiable risk that harm will occur.  Id., §2.02(2)(c).  In other words, he must make a “deliberate decision to endanger another.”  Voisine, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7). As has long been recognized, the difference between knowledge and recklessness as to the consequences of one’s actions is one of degree, not of kind.[9]

															Reckless conduct is not benign.  Reckless conduct “involves conscious risk creation,” Model Penal Code §2.02, Comment 3, p. 236 (1985)—a “deliberate decision to endanger another,” Voisine, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7).  And a person who engages in, for example, reckless assault or reckless homicide generally injures or kills another person.[10]  

															Because the line between knowledge and recklessness can be thin and because reckless crimes such as reckless assault and reckless homicide involve a “deliberate decision to endanger another” that results in injury or death to another person, ibid., the criminal law ordinarily does not draw the line for criminal liability between intent and knowledge on the one hand and recklessness on the other.  On the contrary, as the Model Penal Code explains, “[n]o one has doubted” that a reckless mental state is “properly the basis for criminal liability.”  §2.02, Comment 4, at 243; see generally Turner, The Mental Element in Crimes at Common Law, 6 Camb. L. J. 31 (1936).

															Recognizing that basic principle, the Model Penal Code establishes recklessness as the default minimum mens rea for criminal offenses when a mental state is not specified.  §2.02, Comment 5, at 244.  If a more culpable mental state, such as intent or knowledge, is required for a criminal offense, “it is conventional to be explicit.”  Ibid.  Keep that last sentence in mind when we return to ACCA’s text.

															Like the Model Penal Code, many States establish recklessness as a default minimum mens rea for criminal offenses.[11]  And like the Model Penal Code, most States’ criminal laws in 1986 provided (and today still provide) that recklessness as to the consequences of a defendant’s conduct often suffices to impose criminal liability, including as to assault and homicide.  See, e.g., Brief for United States 19–20, and nn. 4–5 (state reckless assault statutes); 2 LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law §15.4(a), and p. 712, n. 19 (2018) (manslaughter).  As of 1986, when Congress amended ACCA to include the use-of-force clause, 28 States had reckless assault statutes, and more than 30 States had statutes that covered some form of reckless homicide.  See Brief for United States 19–21, and nn. 4–7.  

															Importantly, nothing in ACCA’s text or context (or its history, for that matter) states or even hints that Congress sought to exclude reckless offenses against the person, such as reckless assault and reckless homicide, from the use-of-force clause.  Recall that the Model Penal Code says that “it is conventional to be explicit” when a legislature wants to exclude reckless offenses from criminal liability.  §2.02, Comment 5, at 244.  ACCA contains no such explicit language excluding reckless offenses.  The text of ACCA should not be read to silently exclude reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide.[12]

															In short, in enacting ACCA, “Congress must have known it was sweeping in some persons who had engaged in reckless conduct.”  Voisine, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8) (citing United States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 238, 256 (1835) (Story, J.)).

															Consistent with those background principles of mens rea, the ordinary meaning of the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” in ACCA encompasses reckless offenses such as reckless assault or reckless homicide.  

															The plurality today acknowledges that the phrase “use of physical force” would include reckless offenses.  But according to the plurality, ACCA’s phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” does not include reckless offenses.  To distinguish the two, the plurality emphasizes the word “against.”  As the plurality acknowledges, however, the word “against” is often defined to mean “ ‘mak[ing] contact with.’ ”  Ante, at 8.  That is the logical meaning of “against” in the context of ACCA’s use-of-force clause, and that meaning would encompass reckless assaults and reckless homicides.

															The plurality disagrees, and stresses that the word “against” in isolation can mean either “ ‘in contact with’ ” or “ ‘[i]n opposition to,’ ” depending on context.  Ante, at 9.  The plurality contends that the meaning of “against” in the context of the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” carries the word’s “oppositional” definition and thus excludes reckless offenses.[13]  

															The plurality chooses the “in opposition to” definition because it says, in essence, that it would be incoherent or gibberish to say that someone recklessly used force against another person.  But the plurality is wrong about that.  As a matter of ordinary meaning, it is perfectly natural to say that someone recklessly used force against another person.[14]  State and federal reporters, for example, are replete with references to individuals recklessly using force against others.  See, e.g., Neil v. Warden, Noble Correctional Inst., 2020 WL 489326, *30 (SD Ohio, Jan. 30, 2020) (“The indictments also charged that in attempting or committing a theft offense or in fleeing immediately after the attempt or offense, appellant recklessly used or threatened the immediate use of force against another”).[15]  

															Most tellingly, if one wants to find a really good example of the ordinary meaning, look no further than the Court’s opinion in Voisine five years ago.  There, the Court stated twice in its opinion—in the first and last paragraphs—that the use-of-force statute at issue there covered offenses where an individual recklessly used physical force “against a domestic relation.”  579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12); see also id., at ___ (slip op., at 1).  The Voisine Court found it entirely ordinary to employ the phrase “ ‘use . . . of physical force’ against a domestic relation”—in other words, use of physical force against another person—to describe reckless assaults.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 12).

															If the plurality today were correct that a use of force “against” another can only be intentional or knowing, then the Court in Voisine surely would not have adopted the exact formulation of recklessly using force “against a domestic relation.”  Res ipsa loquitur.

															The plurality today simply shrugs off the language from Voisine.  Ante, at 22–23, n. 9.  But the plurality cannot rewrite ordinary meaning.  And as Voisine’s choice of language demonstrates, the ordinary meaning of the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another,” such as against a domestic relation, easily encompasses reckless offenses, including reckless assault and reckless homicide.  (More on Voisine later.)

															More generally, the plurality’s linguistic efforts to seize on the word “against” to scale back ACCA do not make a lot of sense.  Consider two points.  First, a use of force must be against someone or something.  And second, as Voisine stated and Borden acknowledges, you can recklessly use force.  Put those two points together and the resulting conclusion is irrefutable: One can recklessly use force against the person of another (or against the property of another).  As relevant here, the ordinary meaning of the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” thus covers reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide.

															Lest there be any doubt, keep in mind that we are talking about reckless offenses such as reckless assault or reckless homicide where a defendant made a deliberate decision to endanger another by using force, and as a result injured or killed someone.  Applying ordinary meaning and employing a modicum of common sense, one would say that such a defendant used force against the victim.  If an individual fires a gun recklessly at a house and injures someone inside, that individual has used force against the victim.  If an individual recklessly throws bricks off an overpass and kills a driver passing underneath, that individual has used force against the victim.  If an individual recklessly drives 80 miles per hour through a neighborhood and kills a child, that individual has used force against the child.  It defies common sense and the English language to suggest otherwise.

															To appreciate the ordinary meaning of the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another,” look also at some of the cases cited by the plurality today.  See ante, at 18.  In People v. Hall, a highly experienced skier careened down a slope at dangerously high speeds, out of control, until he crashed into an unsuspecting skier.  See 999 P.2d 207 (Colo. 2000).  The “force of the impact” when Hall collided with the victim was so great that it “fractured the thickest part of the victim’s skull” and caused traumatic brain injuries, resulting in the victim’s death.  Id., at 211.  

															The fleeing shoplifter in Craver v. State leapt over the second-floor railing in a mall during normal business hours, while people were milling about in the area below.  See 2015 WL 3918057, *1 (Tex. Crim. App., June 25, 2015).  The shoplifter landed directly on top of an elderly woman, breaking her back.  Id., at *2.  

															And in Seaton v. State, a police officer blew through a red light without braking or activating his lights or sirens, collided with another car at a speed of about 100 miles per hour, ricocheted into another person who was standing nearby, and killed that bystander.  See 385 S.W.3d 85, 88 (Tex. Crim. App., 2012).

															All of those offenses entail the use of physical force against another person.  True, the skier who crashed into an innocent bystander on the slopes did not intend or know with practical certainty that he would hit that bystander with such force that it would crack his skull.  The shoplifter who vaulted himself over a second-floor railing may not have intended or known with practical certainty that he would slam into an unsuspecting shopper below.  And the officer who drove through the red light at 100 miles per hour may not have intended or known with practical certainty that he would lose control and kill another person.  

															But the defendants in those cases did not merely “pay insufficient attention to the potential application of force.”  Ante, at 11.  Instead, each of those defendants acted recklessly and thus made “a deliberate decision to endanger another.”  Voisine, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7). Each of them consciously disregarded the obvious dangers that their volitional conduct—high-speed skiing, jumping off a second-floor railing, or speeding at 100 miles per hour in a car without lights or sirens—posed to anyone unfortunate enough to cross their paths.  See id., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  Each of those defendants knew that the people around them would have to be really lucky to get out of the way.  And in ordinary parlance, each of those defendants used force against their victims when they made physical contact with those victims as a direct result of their reckless behavior—that is, of their deliberate decision to endanger another.

															*  *  *

															To sum up, the plurality’s reading of the statutory phrase “against the person of another” fails for two alternative and independent reasons.  First, that phrase is a term of art that limits the category of offenses covered by ACCA’s use-of-force clause to those involving force against the person rather than against property.  It does not serve as a roundabout way of heightening the mens rea requirement for violent felonies to intent or knowledge.  Second, and in the alternative, even if the phrase “against the person of another” is not a term of art, the ordinary meaning of that phrase encompasses reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide.[16] 

															II

															All of that is more than enough to resolve this case.  But in addition to all of that, the Court’s recent precedent in Voisine v. United States convincingly demonstrates that ACCA covers reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide.

															As noted above, the Court in Voisine concluded that the phrase “use of physical force” in a similarly worded statutory provision encompasses reckless offenses, as well as intentional or knowing offenses.

579 U.S. 686 (2016).  Voisine established two key points.  First, Voisine confirmed that reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide entail the use of physical force against another person—there, against a domestic relation or victim.  Second, contrary to the plurality’s analysis today, Voisine explained that the Court’s prior decision in Leocal v. Ashcroft,

543 U.S. 1 (2004), meant simply that negligent offenses do not involve the use of physical force for purposes of statutes such as ACCA.  

															First, Voisine confirmed that reckless offenses involve the use of physical force against another person—in that case, against a “domestic relation” or “victim.”  In Voisine, the Court addressed a subsection of §922(g) that bars individuals from possessing firearms if they have been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence.  See

18 U. S. C. §922(g)(9).  The statute defines “misdemeanor crime of domestic violence” as a misdemeanor that “has, as an element, the use or attempted use of physical force” and was committed against a “victim” who was in a domestic relationship with the defendant.  §921(a)(33)(A); see also Voisine, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 1).[17]

															The question in Voisine was whether that statutory definition “applies to reckless assaults, as it does to knowing or intentional ones.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 4).  The Court held that the statute applied to reckless assaults.

															The Court in Voisine began by describing bedrock criminal law principles.  Pointing to the Model Penal Code, the Court explained that a person acts recklessly with regard to the consequences of his actions if he “ ‘consciously disregard[s]’ a substantial risk that the conduct will cause harm to another.”  Ibid. (quoting Model Penal Code §2.02(2)(c)).  The Court stated that even though such a person does not intend or know to a practical certainty that harm will result, he nonetheless makes “a deliberate decision to endanger another.”  Voisine, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7).  And the Court noted that recklessness as to the consequences of one’s actions ordinarily suffices for criminal liability.

															The Court then concluded that the phrase “use of physical force” in §921(a)(33)(A) does not require that a defendant intend or know that his conduct will cause harm.  Instead, it is enough that he recklessly employs force—that is, acts in “conscious disregard” of a “substantial risk of causing harm.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  For example, a man who “throws a plate in anger against the wall near where his wife is standing” has used force against his wife even if the man “did not know for certain (or have as an object)” that “a shard from the plate would ricochet and injure his wife.”  Ibid.  It suffices that the man “recognized a substantial risk” that his forceful act would harm his wife.  Ibid.  That example, the Court explained, illustrated that the statute was “indifferent as to whether the actor has the mental state of intention, knowledge, or recklessness with respect to the harmful consequences of his volitional conduct.”  Ibid.

															In Voisine, to have committed a qualifying misdemeanor crime of domestic violence, the defendant must have used force against a “victim,” to use the statute’s term, often against the defendant’s spouse or partner.  As the Voisine Court stated, reckless assault in the domestic violence context entails “the ‘use . . . of physical force’ against a domestic relation” even though a defendant who acts recklessly does not intend or know to a practical certainty that his use of force will harm that domestic relation.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 12) (emphasis added).  In other words, the Court agreed that a reckless assault entails the use of physical force against the person of another (there, “against a domestic relation” or “victim”).

															Voisine’s conclusion applies equally to ACCA’s violent felony definition.  The two definitions share critical features.  Both definitions apply in the context of §922(g)’s ban on possession of firearms by individuals convicted of certain offenses.  Both definitions apply to offenses that have as an element the “use of physical force.”  

															The only distinction between those two definitions is that ACCA employs the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” while §921(a)(33)(A) employs the phrase “use of physical force” and then makes clear that force must be used against a “victim” who is a domestic relation.  But that distinction makes no difference for mens rea purposes.  The Court in Voisine took as a given that the object of the reckless conduct would be another person—the “victim” as the statute describes it.  See id., at ___, ___, ___, ___, ___, ___ (slip op., at 1, 4, 7, 8, 9, 12).  Indeed, given that Voisine involved a domestic violence statute, it would have been unnecessary or even redundant to add the words “against the person of another” to the statute.  After all, a domestic violence offense, such as assault, is necessarily an offense against the person of another.  Recognizing that reality, the Voisine Court explicitly stated that the “federal ban on firearms possession applies to any person with a prior misdemeanor conviction for the ‘use . . . of physical force’ against a domestic relation.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 12) (quoting §921(a)(33)(A); emphasis added); see also id., at ___ (slip op., at 1).  

															Contrary to what the plurality today seems to think, Voisine did not create some imaginary world where one could recklessly use force, but one could not recklessly use force against another person.  On the contrary, Voisine explicitly recognized that one could recklessly use force “against a domestic relation”—that is, against another person.[18]

															Voisine alone should have made this case very straightforward.  In the wake of Voisine, most Courts of Appeals to consider the issue certainly thought it was.  They responded to Voisine by applying its analysis to ACCA’s violent felony definition.[19]  As Chief Judge Sutton cogently explained in relying on Voisine to interpret the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another”: “Voisine’s key insight is that the word ‘use’ refers to ‘the act of employing something’ and does not require a purposeful or knowing state of mind.  That insight does not change if a statute says that the ‘use of physical force’ must be ‘against’ a person, property, or for that matter anything else. . . .  Sometimes the simplest explanation is the best explanation.”  United States v. Verwiebe, 874 F.3d 258, 262–263 (CA6 2017) (citations omitted).

															But today, the plurality tries to disappear Voisine’s use of the phrase “against a domestic relation” from the U. S. Reports.  Seeking to erase that phrase from Voisine with a footnoted “mea culpa,” the plurality today concludes that the additional phrase “against the person of another” in ACCA means that ACCA’s use-of-force clause does not cover reckless crimes, even though the statute at issue in Voisine did.  Ante, at 20–23, and n. 9.  The plurality’s attempt to rewrite Voisine does not persuade.  As noted above, Voisine held that reckless offenses such as reckless assault and reckless homicide entail the “use of physical force,” and the Voisine opinion further explained that those reckless offenses entail the use of physical force against the person of another—namely, “against a domestic relation” or “victim.”  

															Second, as Voisine fully explained, the Court’s prior decision in Leocal concluded only that negligent offenses do not involve the use of physical force for purposes of ACCA.  Leocal, 543 U. S., at 9, 13; see also Voisine, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7).  Leocal addressed whether a driving-under-the-influence offense that required only a negligent mental state fell within §16(a)’s definition of “crime of violence.”  The Leocal Court held that it did not.  The phrase “use . . . of physical force against the person or property of another,” the Court reasoned, is “most naturally” read to suggest “a higher degree of intent than negligent or merely accidental conduct.”  543 U. S., at 9 (internal quotation marks omitted).  As the Court explained: “While one may, in theory, actively employ something in an accidental manner, it is much less natural to say that a person actively employs physical force against another person by accident.”  Ibid.  

															The Leocal Court took care, however, to reserve the question we confront today—namely, whether offenses requiring “proof of the reckless use of force against the person or property of another” would qualify under a statutory definition like §16(a).  Id., at 13 (emphasis in original).

															As Voisine later explained, the critical mens rea dividing line in statutes requiring the use of force is the line “between accidents and recklessness”—a distinction that “Leocal itself recognized.”  579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7).  Accidents or negligence do not involve the use of force because such conduct is not volitional.  Ibid.  But reckless behavior, like throwing a plate against a wall or firing a gun at a house, is different and does involve the use of force.  After all, the “harm such conduct causes is the result of a deliberate decision to endanger another—no more an ‘accident’ than if the ‘substantial risk’ were ‘practically certain.’ ”  Ibid.

															As a matter of history, theory, and practice in criminal law, the line drawn by Voisine and Leocal between recklessness and negligence is much more salient than the line drawn by the plurality today between knowledge and recklessness.  An individual who consciously disregards a substantial risk of a harmful result has a culpable state of mind and has made a deliberate decision to endanger another, even if it is not practically certain the harmful result will occur.  And for that reason, to reiterate, the Model Penal Code and most States draw the ordinary line of criminal culpability between recklessness and negligence, not between knowledge and recklessness.

															Rather than acknowledge Leocal’s narrow holding on negligence as distinct from recklessness, knowledge, and intent, the plurality today focuses on Leocal’s observation that the “critical aspect” of §16(a)’s “crime of violence” definition is that it requires the “ ‘use . . . of physical force against the person or property of another.’ ”  543 U. S., at 9 (quoting §16(a); emphasis in original).  By the plurality’s account today, Leocal’s analysis of §16(a)’s “against” phrase—which was missing from the statute at issue in Voisine—confirms that ACCA’s materially similar “against” phrase is the “critical text for deciding the level of mens rea needed.”  Ante, at 21–22 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															But Leocal never focused on the term “against the person or property of another” in isolation.  It focused on the full phrase “use of physical force against the person or property of another.”  543 U. S., at 9.  And Leocal said that negligence does not entail such a use of force.

															Indeed, the Court in Voisine already made that same point about Leocal.  Voisine recognized that the statute in Leocal, like the “similarly worded” statute in Voisine, “hing[ed] on the ‘use’ of force.”  579 U. S., at ___, n. 4 (slip op., at 8, n. 4).  The Voisine Court distinguished Leocal solely on the ground that an accident or negligence cannot be considered an “ ‘active employment’ ” of force, whereas reckless assault does entail an active employment of force.  579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7).  As Chief Judge Sutton correctly pointed out, Voisine “tellingly placed no weight on the absence of ‘against the person or property of another’ ” in distinguishing the statute at issue in Voisine from the statute at issue in Leocal.  Verwiebe, 874 F. 3d, at 263.  All of Voisine’s lengthy analysis of Leocal would have been entirely unnecessary if the Voisine Court actually thought that the phrase “against the person or property of another” in the Leocal statute distinguished the statute in Leocal from the statute in Voisine.  

															Put simply, if the phrase “against the person . . . of another” from the statute in Leocal were actually the “Rosetta Stone” of mens rea as the plurality today seems to think, Voisine would have mentioned that point.  Verwiebe, 874 F. 3d, at 263.  But that distinction is nowhere to be found in Voisine.  For mens rea purposes, Voisine treated a statute that covered the “use of physical force” the exact same as a statute that covered the “use of physical force against the person of another.”

															The plurality’s double-barreled effort today to (i) erase Voisine’s use of the phrase “against a domestic relation” and also (ii) sweep away Voisine’s analysis of Leocal is something to behold.  In my view, the plurality’s opinion today cannot be squared with what the Court stated just five years ago in Voisine.  

															If this Court were to faithfully apply Voisine’s language and reasoning to this case, as almost all courts of appeals to consider the issue have done in the wake of Voisine, that would be the end of the matter.  The plurality’s decision to rewrite Voisine today is not convincing, especially when considered together with the other textual arguments in favor of the Government’s position here.[20]

															III

															To support its analysis, the plurality also relies on ACCA’s “context and purpose.”  Ante, at 16.  That argument is likewise unpersuasive, in my respectful view.

															Start with context.  The plurality focuses on the supposed ordinary meaning of the term “violent felony” in isolation.  The plurality maintains that ACCA’s definition of violent felony should be construed to “mark out a narrow category of violent, active crimes.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).

															To begin with, when a statute explicitly defines a term, we generally follow that statutory definition.  See Digital Realty Trust, Inc. v. Somers, 583 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 9).  In ACCA, Congress defined the term “violent felony” to include offenses that involve the “use of physical force against the person of another.”  And as explained above, that definition encompasses reckless offenses like reckless assault and reckless homicide. 

															Moreover, reckless assaults and reckless homicides are violent crimes, as a matter of ordinary meaning.  Recklessly firing a weapon and injuring an unsuspecting victim is violent.  Recklessly throwing bricks off an overpass and killing a driver passing underneath is violent.  Recklessly driving 80 miles per hour through a neighborhood and killing a child is violent.  

															The plurality also refers to the phrase “armed career criminal” (the statutory title) in a way that seems to suggest that an ACCA defendant’s predicate violent felonies must be committed with firearms.  See ante, at 17, 23.  That is incorrect.  The three predicate felonies must be “violent” as defined in the statute but can be committed with or without firearms.  Contrary to the plurality’s intimations, the statute penalizes “career criminals” who then unlawfully arm themselves with firearms.  The plurality’s subtle reconfiguration of the statutory title for contextual support is off base.

															The plurality’s related reliance on ACCA’s supposed purpose is similarly misplaced.  The plurality speculates that Congress designed ACCA to cover those offenders “who, when armed, ‘might deliberately point the gun and pull the trigger.’ ”  Ante, at 17 (quoting Begay v. United States,

553 U.S. 137, 145–146 (2008)).  But even assuming that was Congress’s only goal in enacting ACCA (recall that ACCA also covers those whose predicate offenses were serious drug crimes), the statute expressly defines the offenders who fit into that dangerous category—namely, those who have been convicted of three violent felonies and then unlawfully possess firearms.  Congress’s goal of preventing further violence by recidivist violent felons does not support drawing a distinction between reckless assault and knowing assault, or between reckless homicide and knowing homicide.

															The plurality also says that Congress did not seek to ensnare low-level or ordinary criminals.  True.  But again, ACCA’s 15-year mandatory minimum sentence is triggered only after a defendant is convicted of not one, not two, but three violent felonies committed on separate occasions—and then proceeds to commit a fourth felony by unlawfully possessing firearms.  Such repeated violent conduct is not the stuff of low-level or ordinary criminals.  Even assuming the plurality’s premise that a driver who recklessly kills a pedestrian or a parent who recklessly inflicts abuse on her children is not dangerous the first time around—a doubtful premise that would be news to many victims—that assumption surely falls apart after the second and third reckless felony convictions.  At that point, the individual has demonstrated a consistent willingness to deliberately engage in dangerous behavior that poses an obvious risk of physical harm to others.  And someone who has been convicted of three reckless assaults or homicides committed on different occasions—and then unlawfully possesses firearms—is not a low-level or ordinary criminal, but is someone who Congress might have reasonably feared would commit further violence.  

															The plurality expresses particular concern over the notion that interpreting ACCA to cover reckless offenses would sweep in ordinary reckless driving offenses, like “running a stop sign or veering onto the sidewalk.”  Ante, at 18.  But the plurality does not cite a single case where a reckless driving offense not involving injury to others has been counted as an ACCA predicate.  That is not surprising because routine reckless driving statutes often do not require injury to others and thus would not qualify as a “use of physical force” under ACCA.  It is only when the reckless driver causes harm to another and is convicted of an offense akin to reckless assault or reckless homicide that the offense typically would come within ACCA.  

															Notably, in citing what it implies are benign reckless driving offenses, the plurality fails to mention that the driver who blew through a stop sign in State v. Gillon collided with another vehicle, killing one person and injuring two others.  See 15 S.W.3d 492, 496–497 (Tenn. Crim. App. 1997).  And the driver who erratically veered onto a sidewalk in State v. Graham drove “straight toward” another vehicle and crashed into it, leaving the driver of the vehicle “lying face first outside of the passenger side of his vehicle” “screaming in pain.”  2008 WL 199851, *2 (Tenn. Crim. App., Jan. 24, 2008).  The accident left the victim “unable to walk for three months” after the crash.  Ibid.  As with the other sanitized examples the plurality cites today, it strains credulity to suggest that the drivers in either of those cases did not use force against their victims—or that they could not fairly be considered “career criminals” if convicted of those kinds of violent felonies on three separate occasions.

															In discussing context and purpose, the plurality also tries to further distinguish Voisine by saying that Voisine involved a prior offense of domestic violence, whereas this case involves prior offenses of assault.  Ante, at 23.  But Congress wanted to prohibit thrice-convicted violent criminals from unlawfully possessing firearms at least as much as it wanted to prohibit misdemeanor domestic violence offenders from unlawfully possessing firearms.  Voisine cannot be distinguished on purposive grounds.  

															Finally, in discussing context and purpose, the plurality alludes several times to the 15-year mandatory minimum sentence in ACCA.  (The mandatory minimum seems to loom very large as an influence on the plurality’s overall analysis here.)  But that mandatory minimum sentence comes into play only after four separate felony convictions, three of them for violent felonies and a fourth for unlawfully possessing firearms.  ACCA’s mandatory minimum sentence is not a basis for interpreting the statute contrary to its best reading.  Moreover, Congress is attuned to the issue and has taken many steps in recent years to recalibrate sentencing, address mandatory minimums, and target those who most deserve substantial sentences.  It is not our role to rewrite Congress’s sentencing laws just because we might disagree with Congress or think that Congress is not moving quickly enough to enact new sentencing laws.

															In short, ACCA’s context and purpose, properly read, strongly support what the statutory text and precedent already establish: An individual who commits three reckless assaults or homicides and then unlawfully possesses firearms falls well within the class of people that ACCA encompasses.

															IV

															The Court’s decision today will generate a variety of serious collateral effects that further underscore the implausibility of the plurality’s statutory interpretation.

															First, because the States define reckless assault and reckless homicide to cover a range of conduct, the Court’s decision will exclude from ACCA many defendants who have committed serious violent offenses.  Consider just a few examples, but keep in mind that there are thousands more:

															During the course of a fight, a defendant shot another man in the chest and killed him.  A jury found the defendant guilty of second-degree reckless homicide.  State v. Jackson, 2012 WL 4799459, *1 (Wis. App., Oct. 10, 2012).

															A defendant had been drinking in a parking lot with several others and then attacked another person with a knife.  The knife attack resulted in a “ten-inch long, ‘gaping’ laceration” that “went down to the depth of the victim’s ribs, through two layers of muscle and through his interior abdominal wall.”  The defendant was convicted of reckless aggravated assault.  State v. Farrar, 2002 WL 560959, *1–*2 (Tenn. Crim. App., Apr. 16, 2002).

															At a party, a defendant picked up a friend’s gun, pointed it directly at another person’s head, and pulled the trigger.  The evidence adduced at trial established that the defendant had recklessly disregarded a known risk that the gun was loaded.  The defendant was convicted of reckless homicide.  State v. Gough, 2009–Ohio–322, 2009 WL 180298, *1–*2 (App., Jan. 26, 2009).

															A defendant savagely beat his victim “without provocation,” causing the victim to suffer “hearing loss, missing teeth, impaired vision and impaired memory.”  The defendant was convicted of reckless aggravated assault.  State v. McAmis, 2010 WL 2244124, *4 (Tenn. Crim. App., June 4, 2010).

															In each of the above examples, the defendant’s mental state for the state-law offense was determined to be recklessness.  Under the Court’s decision today, however, not one of those defendants committed a “violent felony” for purposes of ACCA because they supposedly did not commit an offense that necessarily entailed the use of force against the person of another. 

															And it gets worse.  Under the Court’s decision, even second-degree murder and some forms of manslaughter may be excluded from ACCA.  That is because, in many States, some forms of second-degree murder and manslaughter do not require intent or knowledge.  The idea that those offenses would fall outside of ACCA’s scope is, as one judge aptly put it, “ ‘glaringly absurd.’ ”  United States v. Begay, 934 F.3d 1033, 1047 (CA9 2019) (N. R. Smith, J., dissenting in part).  Something has gone badly astray when this Court is suggesting that second-degree murder and manslaughter might not involve the “use of physical force against the person of another.”[21]

															Second, the Court’s decision will exclude even some convictions for intentional and knowing assaults.  That is because several States criminalize felony assault in a single, indivisible provision that can be satisfied by intent, knowledge, or recklessness.[22]  Because courts use the categorical approach when applying ACCA’s violent felony definition, the Court’s decision today will thus exclude many intentional and knowing felony assaults from those States.  

															Consider just one example.  In United States v. Esparza-Herrera, a defendant broke into the house of a woman he had previously dated, tied her up, and beat her over a four-hour period, leaving blood on her hands and face, her eyes swollen shut, and bite marks all over her body.  557 F.3d 1019, 1021, n. 2 (CA9 2009).  The defendant was convicted under a state statute that proscribed “ ‘intentionally, knowingly or recklessly’ ” causing “ ‘temporary but substantial disfigurement.’ ” Id., at 1021.  Under the Court’s decision today, that offense would not qualify as a violent felony under ACCA. 

															Third, after today’s decision, attempted and threatened assaults and homicides will be covered under ACCA as violent felonies.  But actual assaults and actual homicides that were committed recklessly will not be covered under ACCA.  It seems incongruous to conclude that ACCA covers attempts or threats to injure others that never get completed or carried out, but does not cover situations where an individual carries through with reckless conduct and leaves a victim in a hospital or graveyard.  

															As those points indicate, the Court’s decision today will undermine Congress’s sentencing policy.  In particular, today’s decision will mean that some defendants otherwise subject to ACCA will leave prison much earlier than Congress dictated, or avoid ACCA altogether.[23]  To some, that may seem costless or even beneficial.  Indeed, the plurality, in places, seems to doubt the use of the 15-year mandatory minimum sentence—even for someone convicted of three separate violent felonies and then a fourth for unlawfully possessing firearms.  But Congress, not this Court, sets national sentencing policy for violent crimes.  Today’s decision overrides Congress’s policy judgment about the risk posed by serial violent felons who unlawfully possess firearms.  And today’s decision will have significant real-world consequences.  After all, as the U. S. Sentencing Commission recently reported, there is a very high rate of violent crime recidivism for ACCA defendants released from federal prison.  According to that Sentencing Commission report, 59% of ACCA defendants released between 2009 and 2011 were re-arrested within eight years of their release from federal prison, most commonly for assault and most commonly within 18 months of release.  See Federal Armed Career Criminals: Prevalence, Patterns, and Pathways 43–45 (2021).  There is no reason to believe that the would-be ACCA defendants who will receive a lighter sentence after the Court’s decision today will produce significantly different recidivism statistics.  Those alarming statistics cannot be ignored, and they portend some of the human costs of the Court’s erroneous decision today.

															*  *  *

															In sum, the text of ACCA’s use-of-force clause encompasses reckless offenses, such as reckless assault and reckless homicide.  Contrary to the plurality’s conclusion today, the phrase “against the person of another” reflects a centuries-old term of art for classifying crimes and has zero to do with mens rea.  Even setting aside that longstanding usage, the plurality’s interpretation of the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” fails as a matter of ordinary meaning and precedent.  I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 ACCA also includes serious drug offenses as qualifying predicates.

18 U. S. C. §924(e)(2)(A).  That aspect of ACCA is not at issue here. 

2
 Tennessee’s aggravated assault statute provides: “A person commits aggravated assault who: “(1) Intentionally or knowingly commits an assault as defined in §39–13–101 and: “(A) Causes serious bodily injury to another; or “(B) Uses or displays a deadly weapon; or “(2) Recklessly commits an assault as defined in §39–13–101(a)(1), and: “(A) Causes serious bodily injury to another; or “(B) Uses or displays a deadly weapon.”  Tenn. Code Ann. §39–13–102 (2003). 

3
 Just to explain today’s lineup: Four Justices form the plurality.  Justice Thomas concurs in the judgment.  He agrees with the plurality’s result but not its reasoning, and concludes that the phrase “use of physical force” alone excludes reckless offenses such as reckless assault or reckless homicide.  The Court reached a different conclusion in interpreting a similarly worded statute in Voisine v. United States,

579 U.S. 686 (2016).  But Justice Thomas indicates that he will not follow that precedent in this case.  (Importantly, unlike the plurality, Justice Thomas does not rely on the phrase “against the person of another.”) Justice Thomas further explains that reckless offenses were covered by ACCA under the residual clause.  But that clause was declared unconstitutional in Johnson v. United States,

576 U.S. 591 (2015).  Although Justice Thomas disagrees with Johnson, he indicates that hewill today follow the Court’s Johnson precedent, albeit not theVoisine precedent.   So we find ourselves in an unusual situation.  In Voisine, seven Justices agreed that the phrase “use of physical force” in a similarly worded statute covers reckless offenses.  And eight Justices today accept that the phrase “use of physical force” covers reckless offenses.  Moreover, five Justices today agree that ACCA’s text, properly interpreted, would cover reckless offenses.  And only four Justices conclude that the phrase “against the person of another” addresses mens rea and excludes reckless offenses.  Yet despite all of that, Borden prevails, and reckless offenses are now excluded from ACCA’s scope.  That outcome is anomalous.   

4
 See Ala. Code, Tit. 13A, chs. 6, 7 (2015); Alaska Stat., Tit. 11, chs. 41, 46 (2018); Ark. Code Ann., Tit. 5, subds. 2, 4 (1983); Cal. Penal Code Ann., pt. 1, Tits. 8, 13 (West Cum. Supp. 2021); Colo. Rev. Stat., Tit. 18, Arts. 3, 4 (2019); Del. Code Ann., Tit. 11, pt. I, ch. 5, subchs. II, III (2021); Ga. Code Ann., Tit. 16, chs. 5, 7 (2019); Haw. Rev. Stat., Tit. 37, chs. 707, 708 (2014); Ill. Comp. Stat., ch. 720, Act 5, Tit. III, pts. B, C (West 2018); Ind. Code, Tit. 35, Arts. 42, 43 (2020); Kan. Stat. Ann., ch. 21, Arts. 54, 58 (2020); La. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 14, ch. 1, pts. 2, 3 (2016); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 17–A, pt. 2, ch. 9 (2006); Md. Crim. Law Code Ann., Tits. 3, 6 (2012); Mass. Gen. Laws, pt. IV, Tit. 1, chs. 265, 266 (2017); Minn. Stat., ch. 609 (2020); Miss. Code Ann., Tit. 97, chs. 3, 17 (2020); Mo. Rev. Stat., Tit. 38, ch. 565 (2016); Mont. Code Ann., Tit. 45, chs. 5, 6 (2020); Neb. Rev. Stat., ch. 28, Arts. 3, 5 (2021); Nev. Rev. Stat., Tit. 15, chs. 200, 205 (2017); N. J. Stat. Ann., Tit. 2C, subd. 2, pts. 1, 2 (2019); N. Y. Penal Law Ann., ch. 40, pt. 3, Tits. H, I (2009); N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann., ch. 14, subchs. III, V (2019); N. D. Cent. Code Ann., Tit. 12, pts. V, VI (2012); Okla. Stat., Tit. 21, pts. III, VII (2011); Ore. Rev. Stat., Tit. 16, chs. 163, 164 (2019); S. C. Code Ann., Tit. 16, chs. 3, 11 (2015); Tenn. Code Ann., Tit. 39, chs. 13, 14 (2020); Tex. Penal Code Ann., Tits. 5, 7 (West 2021); Utah Code Ann., Tit. 76, chs. 5, 6 (2017); Va. Code Ann., Tit. 18.2, chs. 4, 5 (2014); W. Va. Code Ann., ch. 61, Arts. 2, 3 (2020); Wis. Stat., chs. 940, 943 (2016); Wyo. Stat. Ann., Tit. 6, chs. 2, 3 (2019). 

5
 See Ala. Code, Tit. 13A, chs. 6, 7 (1982); Alaska Stat., Tit. 11, chs. 41, 46 (1983); Ark. Code Ann., Tit. 41, Arts. 5, 6 (Cum. Supp. 1985); Cal. Penal Code Ann., pt. I, Tits. 8, 13 (1984); Colo. Rev. Stat., Tit. 18, Arts. 3, 4 (1986); Del. Code Ann., Tit. 11, pt. 1, ch. 5, subchs. II, III (1979); Ga. Code Ann., Tit. 16, chs. 5, 7 (1984); Haw. Rev. Stat., Tit. 37, chs. 707, 708 (1985); Ill. Ann. Stat., Tit. III, pts. B, C (West 1980); Ind. Stat. Ann., Tit. 35, Arts. 42, 43 (1985); Kan. Stat. Ann., ch. 21, Arts. 34, 37 (1981); La. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 14, ch. 1, pts. II, III (West 1986); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 17–A, ch. 9 (1983); Mass. Gen. Laws, chs. 265, 266 (1986); Minn. Stat., ch. 609 (1986); Miss. Code Ann., Tit. 97, chs. 3, 17 (1973); Mo. Rev. Stat., Tit. 38, ch. 565 (1986); Mont. Code Ann., Tit. 45, chs. 5, 6 (1985); Neb. Rev. Stat., ch. 28, Arts. 3, 5 (1979); Nev. Rev. Stat., Tit. 15, chs. 200, 205 (1986); N. J. Stat. Ann., Tit. 2C, subd. 2, pts. 1, 2 (1982); N. Y. Penal Law Ann., ch. 40, pt. 3, Tits. H, I (West 1975); N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann., ch. 14, subchs. III, V (1981); Okla. Stat., Tit. 21, pts. III, VII (1983); Ore. Rev. Stat., Tit. 16, chs. 163, 164 (1985); Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 18, pt. II, Arts. B, C (Purdon 1983); S. C. Code Ann., Tit. 16, chs. 3, 11 (1985); Tex. Penal Code Ann., Tits. 5, 7 (West 1984); Utah Code Ann., Tit. 76, chs. 5, 6 (Cum. Supp. 1986); Va. Code Ann., Tit. 18.2, chs. 4, 5 (1982); W. Va. Code Ann., ch. 61, Arts. 2, 3 (1984); Wis. Stat., chs. 940, 943 (1982); Wyo. Stat. Ann., Tit. 6, chs. 2, 3 (1983). 

6
 The words “of another” in the use-of-force clause exclude crimes involving harm to oneself, as opposed to others, and reflect common phraseology in state criminal statutes covering offenses against the person, such as assault.  See, e.g., Tenn. Code Ann. §39–13–102 (aggravatedassault is an assault that, among other things, “[c]auses serious bodily injury to another”).  

7
 That understanding of offenses against the person and offenses against property also helps make more sense of the now-defunct residual clause.  See Johnson,

576 U.S. 591.  The residual clause was tacked onto the clause enumerating the covered offenses against property (burglary, arson, extortion, and use of explosives).  The residual clause covered crimes that “otherwise involv[e] conduct that presents a serious potential risk of physical injury to another.”

18 U. S. C. §924(e)(2)(B)(ii).  When still extant, the residual clause could have been read in one of two ways.  On one reading, given its placement with offenses against property, the residual clause could have been read to encompass other physically risky offenses against property similar to burglary, arson, extortion, and use of explosives.  A second possible reading (and the common reading when the residual clause was still in effect) was that the residual clause also covered some offenses against the person, not just offenses against property.  But even assuming that second reading was correct, and that there was potential overlap between the use-of-force clause and the residual clause, the solution was not to read the use-of-force clause contrary to its terms.  No one disputes that the use-of-force clause generally covers assault and homicide, among other crimes.  The residual clause was merely residual—a catchall.  Therefore, as relevant here, even if assault and homicide could theoretically have fit under the old residual clause, that would not negate coverage of assault and homicide under the use-of-force clause. 

8
 The plurality says that reading ACCA’s “against” phrase to refer to the category of covered offenses would leave the broader language in statutes like §16(a) “without any function.”  Ante, at 12.  That is incorrect.  The “against” phrase in statutes like §16(a) clarifies that the statutory definition encompasses both of those traditional categories of offenses: offenses against the person and offenses against property.   

9
 Indeed, a study published in 2011 concluded that individuals had difficulty “differentiat[ing] between knowing and reckless conduct, even with the benefit of jury instructions.”  Shen, et al., Sorting Guilty Minds, 86 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 1306, 1309 (2011).  The authors suggested possibly “abandoning” the distinction because of the inability of most people to distinguish the two categories with respect to particular fact patterns.  Ibid. 

10
 If a state offense labeled as assault did not require that the defendant cause sufficient contact with or injury or death to another person, such an offense presumably would not involve a “use of physical force” under ACCA.  Of course, it could still constitute a violent felony under ACCA if the offense entailed the threatened or attempted use of physical force. 

11
 See, e.g., Alaska Stat. §11.81.610(b) (1983); Ark. Stat. §41–204(2) (1977); Del. Code Ann., Tit. 11, §251(b) (1979); Haw. Rev. Stat. §702–204 (1985); 2 Ill. Rev. Stat., ch. 38, ¶¶4–3(a), 4–6 (1985); Kan. Stat. Ann. §21–5202(a) (2011); N. D. Cent. Code Ann., §12.1–02–02(1)(e), (2) (1985); Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §2901.21(B) (Lexis 2014); Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 18, §302 (Purdon 1983); Tenn. Code Ann. §39–11–301(c) (Cum. Supp. 1990); Tex. Penal Code Ann. §6.02(c) (West 1974); Utah Code Ann. §76–2–102 (Cum. Supp. 1989). 

12
 ACCA’s statutory history further supports that conclusion.  In 1984, in the original version of ACCA, Congress included only one offense against the person: robbery. 18 U. S. C. App. §1202(a) (1982 ed., Supp. II).  ACCA expressly defined robbery as a felony that involves the “taking of the property of another from the person or presence of another by force or violence.”  §1202(c)(8).  At the time, as had been true at common law, see 4 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 241–242 (1769), many state statutes defined robbery in a way that did not require that the defendant have intent or knowledge that his conduct would cause bodily injury.  In 1986, when Congress expanded the number of violent offenses against the person so as to include crimes such as assault, rape, and homicide in addition to robbery, Congress did not suggest that it suddenly wanted to require intent or knowledge for robbery offenses.  If Congress understood reckless robbery as a taking by force under the 1984 language, it follows that Congress would naturally also have understood reckless robbery as the use of physical force against the person of another under the 1986 statute.  And there is no good reason (textual or otherwise) to think that Congress wanted to include reckless robbery but to exclude reckless assault and reckless homicide from the use-of-force clause. 

13
 The plurality also equates “in opposition to” with “targeting.”  Ante, at 8–10.  But the plurality cites no dictionaries or similarly authoritative support for that subtle move in its analysis.  The plurality’s equating of “in opposition to” with “targeting” is seemingly woven out of whole cloth. 

14
 Indeed, the plurality eventually seems to acknowledge that point.  After dedicating pages to asserting that the ordinary meaning of the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” necessarily requires conduct that is intentionally or knowingly directed at another person, the plurality concedes that if the word “recklessly” appeared in ACCA’s use-of-force clause, then that clause would in fact “cover reckless offenses.”  Ante, at 15.  That is a surprising acknowledgment.  It is hard to square with the plurality’s suggestion that it is not possible for one to recklessly use physical force against another person.  After all, if the plurality’s ordinary meaning argument were correct, adding the word “recklessly” to the front of the use-of-force clause would seem to render that clause nonsensical.  My reading of the statute avoids that incongruity in the plurality’s interpretation by recognizing that the phrase “use of physical force against the person of another” encompasses recklessoffenses.   

15
 For just a few examples, see Almonte v. Hines, 2020 WL 1164657, *2 (SDNY, Mar. 11, 2020) (“Plaintiff had not proved by a preponderance of the evidence that Hines intentionally or recklessly used excessive force against Almonte during the arrest”); Evanston Ins. Co. v. Break I, Inc., 2019 WL 2995507, *7 (ND Ala., July 9, 2019) (“The security guard intentionally or recklessly used force against a person without her consent by shooting a gun at the male patron and hitting Ms. Beasley”); O’Hara v. New York, 570 Fed. Appx. 21, 24 (CA2 2014) (“[A] jury could have reasonably found” “that McAvoy intentionally or recklessly used excessive force against O’Hara”); Whitlock v. Jackson, 754 F. Supp. 1394, 1400 (SD Ind. 1991) (“[T]he due process claim required a finding that the defendants ‘unreasonably and recklessly used excessive force’ against Gaisor”); State v. Tyson, 2011–Ohio–4981, 2011 WL 4488955, *6 (Ohio App., Sept. 29, 2011) (“[T]he State was required to prove that appellant recklessly used or threatened the immediate use of force against Mr. Carter”); State v. Adams, 2010–Ohio–1942, 2010 WL 1757931, *2 (Ohio App., May 3, 2010) (“[T]he State was required to prove that appellant ‘recklessly used or threatened the immediate use of force’ against Stoops”); Cook v. State, 2005–0475, p. 3 (La. App. 1 Cir., 2/10/06), 928 So. 2d 589, 591 (“The jury found that Arton did not intentionally or recklessly use excessive force against Cook”); David v. State, 123 P.3d 1099, 1103 (Alaska App. 2005) (“[A] jury could not convict him of second-degree murder without also finding that he had used reckless or criminally negligent force against the victim”). 

16
 The plurality asserts that my two alternative and independent interpretations of the use-of-force clause are “mutually inconsistent.”  Ante, at 12.  But the point of alternative arguments is to explain that there may be two different ways of looking at an issue (which may differ from one another in certain respects), but that both ways of looking at the issue lead to the same bottom line.  So it is here. 

17
 Section 921(a)(33)(A) provides in relevant part: “[T]he term ‘misdemeanor crime of domestic violence’ means an offense that— “(i) is a misdemeanor under Federal, State, or Tribal law; and  “(ii) has, as an element, the use or attempted use of physical force, or the threatened use of a deadly weapon, committed by a current or former spouse, parent, or guardian of the victim, by a person with whom the victim shares a child in common, by a person who is cohabiting with or has cohabited with the victim as a spouse, parent, or guardian, or by a person similarly situated to a spouse, parent, or guardian of the victim.”  (Footnote omitted.) 

18
 To be sure, to avoid a
 
Second Amendment problem, the defendant in Voisine also argued that the statute at issue there should not be interpreted to prohibit the possession of firearms by someone who had committed a single reckless misdemeanor offense.  See 579 U. S., at ___, n. 6 (slip op., at 11, n. 6); see also id., at ___ (Thomas, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 16).  But there is no such constitutional issue lurking in this case.  This case involves a sentencing enhancement, not primary liability, and applies only when the defendant has been convicted of three prior ACCA violent felonies committed on different occasions and has then committed a fourth felony by unlawfully possessing firearms. 

19
 See, e.g., United States v. Burris, 920 F.3d 942, 951 (CA5 2019); United States v. Haight, 892 F.3d 1271, 1280–1281 (CADC 2018); United States v. Pam, 867 F.3d 1191, 1207–1208 (CA10 2017); United States v. Fogg, 836 F.3d 951, 956 (CA8 2016). 

20
 To reiterate, Justice Thomas declines to follow Voisine and, in doing so, provides the fifth vote for the Court’s decision today. 

21
 As the plurality notes, today’s decision should not be construed to express any view on the application of the use-of-force clause to crimesrequiring a mental state of extreme recklessness.  See ante, at 7, n. 4.In my view, crimes committed with extreme recklessness, such asdepraved-heart murder, should obviously still qualify as predicate offenses under ACCA, even after today’s decision.  And indeed, counsel for Borden forthrightly acknowledged at oral argument that extreme recklessness crimes, such as depraved-heart murder, can still suffice under ACCA.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 14–15, 19.  But the plurality, for some reason, refuses to even acknowledge that depraved-heart murder is a violent felony.  The plurality’s reticence is telling, and that reticence shows just how far the plurality’s interpretation of this statute has strayed from the statutory text and basic common sense. 

22
 See Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit. 17–A, §208 (Cum. Supp. 2021) (aggravated assault); R. I. Gen. Laws §11–5–2 (Supp. 2020) (felony assault); Utah Code Ann. §76–5–103 (Supp. 2019) (aggravated assault); see also United States v. Rose, 896 F.3d 104, 114 (CA1 2018) (although Rhode Island case law is inconclusive, “it appears possible” that ordinary recklessness suffices for felony assault under R. I. Gen. Law §11–5–2); State v. Seach, 2021 UT App 22, ¶18, 483 P.3d 1265, 1271 (Utah Code Ann. §76–5–103 requires the State to prove that a defendant acted “intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly”). 

23
 That is to say nothing of the collateral review petitions that will likely inundate courts in the circuits that relied on Voisine to hold that ACCA covers reckless offenses.  See n. 19, supra.  To be clear, defendants who received an ACCA enhancement based on a reckless felony conviction may not necessarily prevail on collateral review.  For example, many petitions may fall outside §2255’s 1-year statute of limitations.  But there can be little question that many such petitions will be filed. 


