::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-020
::decision_cite:: 19-5807
::decision_name::  Edwards v. Vannoy
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–5807

															_________________

															THEDRICK EDWARDS, PETITIONER v. DARREL VANNOY, WARDEN

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[May 17, 2021]

															Justice Kavanaugh delivered the opinion of the Court.

															Last Term in Ramos v. Louisiana, 590 U. S. ___ (2020), this Court held that a state jury must be unanimous to convict a criminal defendant of a serious offense.  Ramos repudiated this Court’s 1972 decision in Apodaca v. Oregon,

406 U.S. 404, which had allowed non-unanimous juries in state criminal trials.  The question in this case is whether the new rule of criminal procedure announced in Ramos applies retroactively to overturn final convictions on federal collateral review.  Under this Court’s retroactivity precedents, the answer is no.

															This Court has repeatedly stated that a decision announcing a new rule of criminal procedure ordinarily does not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  See Teague v. Lane,

489 U.S. 288, 310 (1989) (plurality opinion); see also Linkletter v. Walker,

381 U.S. 618, 639–640, and n. 20 (1965).  Indeed, in the 32 years since Teague underscored that principle, this Court has announced many important new rules of criminal procedure.  But the Court has not applied any of those new rules retroactively on federal collateral review.  See, e.g., Whorton v. Bockting, 549 U.S. 406, 421 (2007) (Confrontation Clause rule recognized in Crawford v. Washington,

541 U.S. 36 (2004), does not apply retroactively).  And for decades before Teague, the Court also regularly declined to apply new rules retroactively, including on federal collateral review.  See, e.g., DeStefano v. Woods,

392 U.S. 631, 635 (1968) (per curiam) (jury-trial rule recognized in Duncan v. Louisiana,

391 U.S. 145 (1968), does not apply retroactively).

															In light of the Court’s well-settled retroactivity doctrine, we conclude that the Ramos jury-unanimity rule likewise does not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  We therefore affirm the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

															I

															On the night of May 13, 2006, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Thedrick Edwards and an accomplice kidnapped Ryan Eaton, a student at LSU.  As Eaton was getting out of his car, Edwards and his accomplice confronted Eaton at gunpoint and forced him back into the car.  Edwards and his accomplice then jumped into the car with Eaton.  They drove with Eaton to an ATM where they hoped to withdraw money using Eaton’s card.  When they discovered that Eaton did not have any money in his account, they drove to Eaton’s apartment.  Once there, they bound and blindfolded Eaton, rummaged through his apartment, and took some of his belongings to Eaton’s car.

															After they were back in the car, Edwards and his accomplice coerced Eaton into arranging a meeting with Eaton’s girlfriend.  They then drove to the girlfriend’s apartment and, at gunpoint, forced Eaton to knock on the door.  When Eaton’s girlfriend opened the door, Edwards and his accomplice rushed inside.  Both Edwards and his accomplice were armed, and Edwards’s accomplice had his gun drawn.  Edwards and his accomplice instructed Eaton, Eaton’s girlfriend, and two other women in the apartment to lie on the floor.  Edwards then raped one of the women.  His accomplice raped another woman.  As they left, they grabbed some personal property from the apartment.  Edwards and his accomplice hurried back into Eaton’s car and drove around the corner.  They then abandoned the car and fled.

															Two days later, Edwards and his accomplice confronted another man at gunpoint and forced him to withdraw money from an ATM.

															Within a day of the second incident, the police collected substantial evidence implicating Edwards in both episodes.  The police obtained warrants to search his residence and to arrest him.  The day after the police executed the search warrant but before an arrest, Edwards turned himself in to the police and confessed to his crimes.  The police videotaped Edwards’s confession.  (The video is part of the joint appendix.  See supremecourt.gov/media/media.aspx.)

															Edwards was indicted in Louisiana state court for armed robbery, kidnapping, and rape.  Edwards pled not guilty and went to trial.  Before trial, Edwards moved to suppress the videotaped confession on the ground that the confession was involuntary.  The trial court denied the suppression motion.

															At trial, the jury heard Edwards’s confession and other evidence against him, including the testimony of eyewitnesses.  The jury convicted Edwards of five counts of armed robbery, two counts of kidnapping, and one count of rape.  At the time, Louisiana law permitted guilty verdicts if at least 10 of the 12 jurors found the defendant guilty.  The jury convicted Edwards by an 11-to-1 vote on one of the armed robbery counts, the two kidnapping counts, and the rape count.  The jury convicted Edwards by a 10-to-2 vote on the four remaining armed robbery counts.

															At sentencing, the trial judge stated: “I can say without hesitation that this is the most egregious case that I’ve had before me.”  Record 1113.  The judge sentenced Edwards to life imprisonment without parole.  The Louisiana First Circuit Court of Appeal affirmed the conviction and sentence.  In March 2011, Edwards’s conviction became final on direct review.

															After his conviction became final, Edwards applied for state post-conviction relief in the Louisiana courts.  The Louisiana courts denied relief.

															In 2015, Edwards filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus in the U. S. District Court for the Middle District of Louisiana.  He argued that the non-unanimous jury verdict violated his constitutional right to a unanimous jury.  The District Court rejected that claim as foreclosed by this Court’s 1972 decision in Apodaca v. Oregon,

406 U.S. 404.

															In Apodaca, this Court ruled that the Constitution does not require unanimous jury verdicts in state criminal trials.  The Apodaca majority consisted of a plurality opinion by four Justices and an opinion concurring in the judgment by Justice Powell.  In his opinion, Justice Powell acknowledged that the
 
Sixth Amendment requires a unanimous jury in federal criminal trials.  406 U. S., at 371.  But in his view, the
 
Fourteenth Amendment did not incorporate that right against the States, meaning that a unanimous jury was not constitutionally required in state criminal trials.  Id., at 373, 376–377.  In subsequent years, many federal and state courts viewed Justice Powell’s opinion as the controlling opinion from Apodaca.  See, e.g., Timbs v. Indiana, 586 U. S. ___, ___, n. 1 (2019) (slip op., at 3, n. 1); McDonald v. Chicago,

561 U.S. 742, 766, n. 14 (2010).

															In Edwards’s case, the District Court likewise followed Justice Powell’s opinion from Apodaca and concluded that a unanimous jury is not constitutionally required in state criminal trials.  The U. S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit denied a certificate of appealability.  2019 WL 8643258 (May 20, 2019).  Edwards then petitioned for a writ of certiorari in this Court, arguing that the Constitution requires a unanimous jury in state criminal trials.

															II

															While Edwards’s petition for certiorari was pending, this Court decided Ramos and rejected Justice Powell’s opinion in Apodaca.  See Ramos v. Louisiana, 590 U. S. ___ (2020); Apodaca v. Oregon,

406 U.S. 404 (1972).  The Court held that the
 
Fourteenth Amendment incorporates the
 
Sixth Amendment right to a unanimous jury against the States.  Therefore, in state court as well as federal court, a jury must be unanimous to convict a defendant of a serious offense.[1]

															The Court’s decision in Ramos directly affected Louisiana and Oregon, which were the only two States that still allowed non-unanimous juries.  For those States, this Court’s decision in Ramos immediately triggered a pressing question: Does Ramos apply retroactively to overturn final convictions on federal collateral review?  We granted certiorari in Edwards’s case to decide that question.  590 U. S. ___ (2020).  We conclude that Ramos does not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.

															A

															A new rule of criminal procedure applies to cases on direct review, even if the defendant’s trial has already concluded.  See Griffith v. Kentucky,

479 U.S. 314, 328 (1987).  But under the habeas corpus statute as interpreted by this Court, a new rule of criminal procedure ordinarily does not apply retroactively to overturn final convictions on federal collateral review.  See Teague v. Lane,

489 U.S. 288, 310 (1989) (plurality opinion); Penry v. Lynaugh,

492 U.S. 302,  

															 

															313–314 (1989).[2]

															In stating that new procedural rules ordinarily do not apply retroactively on federal collateral review, Teague reinforced what had already been the Court’s regular practice for several decades under the retroactivity standard articulated in Linkletter v. Walker,

381 U.S. 618 (1965).  Linkletter set forth a balancing test for determining retroactivity.  But even under Linkletter, “new rules that constituted clear breaks with the past generally were not given retroactive effect,” including on federal collateral review.  Teague, 489 U. S., at 304 (plurality opinion).

															As the Court has explained, applying “constitutional rules not in existence at the time a conviction became final seriously undermines the principle of finality which is essential to the operation of our criminal justice system.”  Id., at 309.  Here, for example, applying Ramos retroactively would potentially overturn decades of convictions obtained in reliance on Apodaca.  Moreover, conducting scores of retrials years after the crimes occurred would require significant state resources.  See Teague, 489 U. S., at 310 (plurality opinion).  And a State may not be able to retry some defendants at all because of “lost evidence, faulty memory, and missing witnesses.”  Allen v. Hardy,

478 U.S. 255, 260 (1986) (per curiam) (internal quotation marks omitted).  When previously convicted perpetrators of violent crimes go free merely because the evidence needed to conduct a retrial has become stale or is no longer available, the public suffers, as do the victims.  See United States v. Mechanik, 475 U.S. 66, 72 (1986).  Even when the evidence can be reassembled, conducting retrials years later inflicts substantial pain on crime victims who must testify again and endure new trials.  In this case, the victims of the robberies, kidnappings, and rapes would have to relive their trauma and testify again, 15 years after the crimes occurred.

															Put simply, the “costs imposed upon the States by retroactive application of new rules of constitutional law on habeas corpus thus generally far outweigh the benefits of this application.”  Sawyer v. Smith,

497 U.S. 227, 242 (1990) (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted).  For that reason, the Court has repeatedly stated that new rules of criminal procedure ordinarily do not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.

															The Court has identified only one possible exception to that principle.  The Court has stated that a new procedural rule will apply retroactively on federal collateral review only if it constitutes a “watershed” rule of criminal procedure.  Teague, 489 U. S., at 311 (plurality opinion).  But the Teague Court stated that it was “unlikely” that such watershed “components of basic due process have yet to emerge.”  Id., at 313; see also Whorton v. Bockting,

549 U.S. 406, 417 (2007); Schriro v. Summerlin,

542 U.S. 348, 352 (2004); Tyler v. Cain,

533 U.S. 656, 667, n. 7 (2001).  And in the 32 years since Teague, as we will explain, the Court has never found that any new procedural rule actually satisfies that purported exception.[3]

															B

															To determine whether Ramos applies retroactively on federal collateral review, we must answer two questions.

															First, did Ramos announce a new rule of criminal procedure, as opposed to applying a settled rule?  A new rule ordinarily does not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.

															Second, if Ramos announced a new rule, does it fall within an exception for watershed rules of criminal procedure that apply retroactively on federal collateral review?

															1

															Ramos held that a state jury must be unanimous to convict a defendant of a serious offense.  In so holding, Ramos announced a new rule.

															A rule is new unless it was “dictated by precedent existing at the time the defendant’s conviction became final.”  Teague, 489 U. S., at 301 (plurality opinion).  In other words, a rule is new unless, at the time the conviction became final, the rule was already “apparent to all reasonable jurists.”  Lambrix v. Singletary,

520 U.S. 518, 528 (1997).  The starkest example of a decision announcing a new rule is a decision that overrules an earlier case.  See Whorton, 549 U. S., at 416.

															The jury-unanimity requirement announced in Ramos was not dictated by precedent or apparent to all reasonable jurists when Edwards’s conviction became final in 2011.  On the contrary, before Ramos, many courts interpreted Apodaca to allow for non-unanimous jury verdicts in state criminal trials.[4]  In addition, in Ramos itself, six Members of the Court acknowledged that Apodaca allowed non-unanimous jury verdicts in state criminal trials.  See 590 U. S., at ___ (Sotomayor, J., concurring in part) (slip op., at 2); id., at ___ (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in part) (slip op., at 1); id., at ___–___ (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 7–8); id., at ___ (Alito, J., joined by Roberts, C. J., and Kagan, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 1).  And other Members of the Court recognized that Apodaca at least muddied the waters of the Court’s
 
Sixth Amendment jurisprudence.  Id., at ___, and n. 36 (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 10, and n. 36).  In short, even in Ramos itself, the Court indicated that the decision was not dictated by precedent or apparent to all reasonable jurists.

															Edwards responds that the Court’s decision in Ramos must have applied a settled rule, not a new rule, because the decision adhered to the original meaning of the
 
Sixth Amendment’s right to a jury trial and the
 
Fourteenth Amendment’s incorporation of that right (and others) against the States.  That argument conflates the merits question presented in Ramos with the retroactivity question presented here.  On the merits question, the critical point, as the Court thoroughly explained in Ramos, is that the Constitution’s text and history require a unanimous jury in state criminal trials.  On the retroactivity question, the critical point is that reasonable jurists who considered the question before Ramos interpreted Apodaca to allow non-unanimous jury verdicts in state criminal trials.

															By renouncing Apodaca and expressly requiring unanimous jury verdicts in state criminal trials, Ramos plainly announced a new rule for purposes of this Court’s retroactivity doctrine.  And new rules of criminal procedure ordinarily do not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.

															2

															Having determined that Ramos announced a new rule requiring jury unanimity, we must consider whether that new rule falls within an exception for watershed rules of criminal procedure that apply retroactively on federal collateral review.

															This Court has stated that the watershed exception is “extremely narrow” and applies only when, among other things, the new rule alters “our understanding of the bedrock procedural elements essential to the fairness of a proceeding.”  Whorton, 549 U. S., at 417–418 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															In the abstract, those various adjectives—watershed, narrow, bedrock, essential—do not tell us much about whether a particular decision of this Court qualifies for the watershed exception.  In practice, the exception has been theoretical, not real.  The Court has identified only one pre-Teague procedural rule as watershed: the right to counsel recognized in the Court’s landmark decision in Gideon v. Wainwright,

372 U.S. 335, 344–345 (1963).  See Whorton, 549 U. S., at 419, 421.  The Court has never identified any other pre-Teague or post-Teague rule as watershed.  None.  

															Moreover, the Court has flatly proclaimed on multiple occasions that the watershed exception is unlikely to cover any more new rules.  Even 32 years ago in Teague itself, the Court stated that it was “unlikely” that additional watershed rules would “emerge.”  489 U. S., at 313 (plurality opinion).  And since Teague, the Court has often reiterated that “it is unlikely that any such rules have yet to emerge.”  Whorton, 549 U. S., at 417 (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted); see also Beard v. Banks,

542 U.S. 406, 417 (2004); Summerlin, 542 U. S., at 352; Tyler, 533 U. S., at 667, n. 7; Graham v. Collins,

506 U.S. 461, 478 (1993); Sawyer, 497 U. S., at 243; Butler v. McKellar,

494 U.S. 407, 416 (1990).

															Consistent with those many emphatic pronouncements, the Court since Teague has rejected every claim that a new procedural rule qualifies as a watershed rule.  For example, in Beard v. Banks, 542 U. S., at 408, the Court declined to retroactively apply the rule announced in Mills v. Maryland,

486 U.S. 367, 384 (1988), that capital juries may not be required to disregard certain mitigating factors.  In O’Dell v. Netherland,

521 U.S. 151, 153 (1997), the Court refused to retroactively apply the rule announced in Simmons v. South Carolina,

512 U.S. 154, 156 (1994), that a capital defendant must be able, in certain circumstances, to inform the sentencing jury that he is parole ineligible.  In Lambrix v. Singletary, 520 U. S., at 539–540, the Court declined to retroactively apply the rule announced in Espinosa v. Florida,

505 U.S. 1079, 1082 (1992) (per curiam), that sentencers may not weigh invalid aggravating circumstances before recommending or imposing the death penalty.  In Sawyer v. Smith, 497 U. S., at 229, the Court refused to retroactively apply the rule announced in Caldwell v. Mississippi,

472 U.S. 320, 323 (1985), which prohibited a death sentence by a jury led to the false belief that responsibility for the sentence rested elsewhere.

															The list of cases declining to retroactively apply a new rule of criminal procedure extends back long before Teague to some of this Court’s most historic criminal procedure decisions.  For example, in Johnson v. New Jersey, 384 U.S. 719, 721 (1966), the Court declined to retroactively apply Miranda v. Arizona,

384 U.S. 436, 444–445 (1966), which required that police inform individuals in custody of certain constitutional rights before questioning them.  And in Linkletter v. Walker, 381 U. S., at 639–640, the Court refused to retroactively apply Mapp v. Ohio,

367 U.S. 643, 655 (1961), which incorporated the
 
Fourth Amendment exclusionary rule against the States.

															Edwards seeks to distinguish Ramos from the long line of cases where the Court has declined to retroactively apply new procedural rules.  Edwards emphasizes three aspects of Ramos: (i) the significance of the jury-unanimity right; (ii) Ramos’s reliance on the original meaning of the Constitution; and (iii) the effect of Ramos in preventing racial discrimination in the jury process.

															But Edwards’s attempts to distinguish Ramos are unavailing because the Court has already considered and rejected those kinds of arguments in prior retroactivity cases.

															First, Edwards emphasizes the significance of the jury-unanimity right for criminal defendants.  But that argument for retroactivity cannot be squared with the Court’s decisions in Duncan v. Louisiana,

391 U.S. 145 (1968), and DeStefano v. Woods,

392 U.S. 631 (1968) (per curiam).  In Duncan, the Court repudiated several precedents and ruled that a defendant has a constitutional right to a jury trial in a state criminal case.  391 U. S., at 149–150, 154–155.  Notwithstanding the extraordinary significance of Duncan in guaranteeing a jury trial and expanding the rights of criminal defendants, the Court in DeStefano declined to retroactively apply the jury right.  392 U. S., at 633; see also Summerlin, 542 U. S., at 356–358 (relying on DeStefano and rejecting retroactivity of jury right recognized in Ring v. Arizona,

536 U.S. 584, 589 (2002)).  We cannot discern a principled basis for retroactively applying the subsidiary Ramos jury-unanimity right when the Court in DeStefano declined to retroactively apply the broader jury right itself.[5]

															Second, Edwards stresses that Ramos relied on the original meaning of the
 
Sixth Amendment.  But that argument for retroactivity is inconsistent with Crawford v. Washington,

541 U.S. 36 (2004), and Whorton v. Bockting,

549 U.S. 406 (2007).  In Crawford, the Court relied on the original meaning of the
 
Sixth Amendment’s Confrontation Clause to overrule precedent and restrict the use of hearsay evidence against criminal defendants.  541 U. S., at 60–69.  Notwithstanding Crawford’s reliance on the original meaning of the
 
Sixth Amendment, the Court in Whorton declined to retroactively apply Crawford.  549 U. S., at 421.

															Third, Edwards says that Ramos prevents racial discrimination by ensuring that the votes of all jurors, regardless of race, matter in the jury room.  But that argument for retroactivity cannot prevail in light of Batson v. Kentucky,

476 U.S. 79 (1986), and Allen v. Hardy,

478 U.S. 255 (1986) (per curiam).  In Batson, the Court overruled precedent and revolutionized day-to-day jury selection by holding that state prosecutors may not discriminate on the basis of race when exercising individual peremptory challenges.  476 U. S., at 92–93, 96–98.  Nonetheless, the Court in Allen declined to retroactively apply Batson.  478 U. S., at 261; see also Teague, 489 U. S., at 295–296 (reaffirming Allen).

															The Court’s decisions in Duncan, Crawford, and Batson were momentous and consequential.  All three decisions fundamentally reshaped criminal procedure throughout the United States and significantly expanded the constitutional rights of criminal defendants.  One involved the jury-trial right, one involved the original meaning of the
 
Sixth Amendment’s Confrontation Clause, and one involved racial discrimination in jury selection.  Yet the Court did not apply any of those decisions retroactively on federal collateral review.  Ramos is likewise momentous and consequential.  But we see no good rationale for treating Ramos differently from Duncan, Crawford, and Batson.  Consistent with the Court’s long line of retroactivity precedents, we hold that the Ramos jury-unanimity rule does not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.[6]

															In so concluding, we recognize that the Court’s many retroactivity precedents taken together raise a legitimate question: If landmark and historic criminal procedure decisions—including Mapp, Miranda, Duncan, Crawford, Batson, and now Ramos—do not apply retroactively on federal collateral review, how can any additional new rules of criminal procedure apply retroactively on federal collateral review?  At this point, some 32 years after Teague, we think the only candid answer is that none can—that is, no new rules of criminal procedure can satisfy the watershed exception.  We cannot responsibly continue to suggest otherwise to litigants and courts.  In Teague itself, the Court recognized that the purported exception was unlikely to apply in practice, because it was “unlikely” that such watershed “components of basic due process have yet to emerge.”  489 U. S., at 313 (plurality opinion). The Court has often repeated that “it is unlikely that any of these watershed rules has yet to emerge.”  Tyler, 533 U. S., at 667, n. 7 (alteration and internal quotation marks omitted); see also, e.g., Whorton, 549 U. S., at 417; Summerlin, 542 U. S., at 352.  And for decades, the Court has rejected watershed status for new procedural rule after new procedural rule, amply demonstrating that the purported exception has become an empty promise.

															Continuing to articulate a theoretical exception that never actually applies in practice offers false hope to defendants, distorts the law, misleads judges, and wastes the resources of defense counsel, prosecutors, and courts.  Moreover, no one can reasonably rely on an exception that is non-existent in practice, so no reliance interests can be affected by forthrightly acknowledging reality.  It is time—probably long past time—to make explicit what has become increasingly apparent to bench and bar over the last 32 years: New procedural rules do not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  The watershed exception is moribund.  It must “be regarded as retaining no vitality.”  Herrera v. Wyoming, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 11) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															3

															We respectfully offer four responses to the dissent.

															First, in the dissent’s view, if a right is important enough to justify overruling or repudiating precedent (as in Ramos), then it often is important enough to apply retroactively as a watershed rule of criminal procedure.  But the Court’s precedents say the opposite and demonstrate that the dissent’s position erroneously inverts stare decisis and Teague.  Teague recognized that the Court would occasionally announce new rules of criminal procedure by overruling or repudiating existing precedents.  Teague further explained, however, that it was “unlikely” that such new procedural rules would apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  489 U. S., at 313 (plurality opinion).  In other words, under this Court’s longstanding case law, it is easier to overrule or repudiate a precedent—as the Court did in Mapp, Miranda, Duncan, Batson, and Crawford, for example—than it is to apply the new procedural rule retroactively on federal collateral review—as demonstrated by the Court’s corresponding non-retroactivity decisions in Linkletter, Johnson, DeStefano, Allen, and Whorton.  

															The Ramos Court fully understood all of this.  Although Ramos stopped short of expressly deciding this retroactivity question (because it was not squarely presented), Ramos discussed retroactivity and plainly foreshadowed today’s decision.  The lead opinion in Ramos—which was joined in relevant part by two of today’s dissenters, Justice Breyer and Justice Sotomayor—explained that overruling or repudiating Apodaca was not likely to significantly affect Louisiana’s and Oregon’s reliance interests in preserving final convictions because Ramos was not likely to apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  In particular, the lead opinion said that the States’ “worries” about Ramos applying retroactively and overturning hundreds of final convictions outstripped “the facts” because “Teague’s test is a demanding one, so much so that this Court has yet to announce a new rule of criminal procedure capable of meeting it.”  Ramos, 590 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Gorsuch, J.) (slip op., at 24); see also id., at ___–___ (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in part) (slip op., at 16–17).  The lead opinion added that Teague is “demanding by design, expressly calibrated to address the reliance interests States have in the finality of their criminal judgments.”  Id., at ___ (opinion of Gorsuch, J.) (slip op., at 24).  In light of that explicit language in Ramos, the Court’s decision today can hardly come as a surprise.  

															In short, the Court’s holding today—namely, that Ramos does not apply retroactively on federal collateral review—carefully adheres to Ramos and tracks the Court’s many longstanding precedents on retroactivity.     

															Second, the dissent suggests that the Court knows that Ramos should apply retroactively under the watershed exception, but wants to avoid applying Ramos retroactively, and for that reason has decided to just eliminate the watershed exception altogether.  That suggestion is unfounded.  Ramos was a momentous decision, and those of us who joined it continue to agree with it.  But as we have explained, Ramos itself analyzed the Court’s retroactivity precedents and foretold today’s decision on retroactivity.  We are simply following through on what Ramos (as well as the Court’s many other precedents) already said about retroactivity to now squarely hold that Ramos does not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  If we thought otherwise and believed that Ramos qualified under the Court’s precedents as a rule that applies retroactively, we would certainly say so.  But applying our retroactivity precedents, we have concluded that Ramos does not apply retroactively—just as the Court has previously held that other historic cases like Mapp, Miranda, Duncan, Batson, and Crawford did not apply retroactively.  After reaching that conclusion, we then took account of the overall jurisprudential landscape of the last several decades in Teague cases and acknowledged what has become unmistakably clear: The purported watershed exception is moribund.  

															Third, on that last point, the dissent responds that Teague nominally identified a retroactivity exception for watershed procedural rules and that we should do so as well.  But the problem, as we see it, is that Teague simultaneously said that it was “unlikely” that new procedural rules would qualify as watershed.  489 U. S., at 313 (plurality opinion).  So Teague took with one hand what it seemingly gave with the other.  And in the 32 years since Teague, this Court has never once held that a new procedural rule qualifies for the purported watershed exception.  What is more, the Court has regularly repeated that Teague’s watershed exception would likely never be satisfied.  The Court today need not and does not overrule any post-Teague cases that held the watershed exception satisfied because there are no post-Teague cases that held the watershed exception satisfied.  

															As noted above, no stare decisis values would be served by continuing to indulge the fiction that Teague’s purported watershed exception endures.  No one can reasonably rely on a supposed exception that has never operated in practice.  And perpetuating what has become an illusory exception misleads litigants and judges, and needlessly expends the scarce resources of defense counsel, prosecutors, and courts.  At this point, given that landmark cases like Mapp, Miranda, Duncan, Batson, Crawford, and now Ramos have not applied retroactively, we are simply acknowledging reality and stating the obvious: The purported watershed exception retains no vitality.

															Fourth, the dissent asserts that the Court is not living up to the promise of Ramos for criminal defendants.  To begin with, the dissent cannot reasonably charge the Court with failing to live up to Ramos given that Ramos itself explicitly forecast today’s decision on retroactivity.  Moreover, with respect, Justice Kagan dissented in Ramos.  To be sure, the dissent’s position on the jury-unanimity rule in Ramos was perfectly legitimate, as is the dissent’s position on retroactivity in today’s case.  And it is of course fair for a dissent to vigorously critique the Court’s analysis.  But it is another thing altogether to dissent in Ramos and then to turn around and impugn today’s majority for supposedly shortchanging criminal defendants.  To properly assess the implications for criminal defendants, one should assess the implications of Ramos and today’s ruling together.  And criminal defendants as a group are better off under Ramos and today’s decision, taken together, than they would have been if Justice Kagan’s dissenting view had prevailed in Ramos.  If the dissent’s view had prevailed in Ramos, no defendant would ever be entitled to the jury-unanimity right—not on collateral review, not on direct review, and not in the future.  By contrast, under the Court’s holdings in Ramos and this case, criminal defendants whose cases are still on direct review or whose cases arise in the future will have the benefit of the jury-unanimity right announced in Ramos.  The rhetoric in today’s dissent is misdirected.  Different Members of the Court have reached different conclusions in Ramos and in this case, but each Member of the Court has acted in good faith in deciding the difficult questions before us.   

															*  *  * 

															To summarize the Court’s retroactivity principles: New substantive rules alter “the range of conduct or the class of persons that the law punishes.”  Summerlin, 542 U. S., at 353.  Those new substantive rules apply to cases pending in trial courts and on direct review, and they also apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  New procedural rules alter “only the manner of determining the defendant’s culpability.”  Ibid. (emphasis deleted).  Those new procedural rules apply to cases pending in trial courts and on direct review.  But new procedural rules do not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  

															Ramos announced a new rule of criminal procedure.  It does not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  We affirm the judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
 Ramos does not apply to defendants charged with petty offenses, which typically are offenses that carry a maximum prison term of six months or less.  590 U. S., at ___, n. 7.  (slip op., at 3, n. 7); see also Blanton v. North Las Vegas,

489 U.S. 538, 543 (1989) (defining petty offense). 

2
 Before Griffith v. Kentucky,

479 U.S. 314 (1987), the Court sometimes would decline to apply new procedural rules even to cases on direct review.  See, e.g., Johnson v. New Jersey,

384 U.S. 719, 721 (1966) (rule announced in Miranda v. Arizona,

384 U.S. 436 (1966), applies only to cases in which the trial began after the date of the Miranda decision).  Griffith ended that practice and declared that new rules apply to all cases on direct review. 

3
 By contrast, a new substantive rule—for example, a rule that particular conduct cannot constitutionally be criminalized—usually applies retroactively on federal collateral review.  See Welch v. United States,

578 U.S. 120, 128–129 (2016).  The parties here agree, as do we, that the rule announced in Ramos is procedural.  The Ramos rule affects “only the manner of determining the defendant’s culpability,” not the “range of conduct or the class of persons that the law punishes.”  Schriro v. Summerlin,

542 U.S. 348, 353 (2004) (emphasis deleted). 

4
 See, e.g., Timbs v. Indiana, 586 U. S. ___, ___, n. 1 (2019) (slip op., at 3, n. 1) (the “
 
Sixth Amendment requires jury unanimity in federal, but not state, criminal proceedings”); McDonald v. Chicago,

561 U.S. 742, 766, n. 14 (2010) (“The Court has held that although the
 
Sixth Amendment right to trial by jury requires a unanimous jury verdict in federal criminal trials, it does not require a unanimous jury verdict in state criminal trials”); Schad v. Arizona,

501 U.S. 624, 634, n. 5 (1991) (plurality opinion) (a “state criminal defendant, at least in noncapital cases, has no federal right to a unanimous jury verdict”); Burch v. Louisiana,

441 U.S. 130, 137 (1979) (the Court has “approved the use of certain nonunanimous verdicts in cases involving 12-person juries”); Ludwig v. Massachusetts,

427 U.S. 618, 625 (1976) (the “holding in Apodaca” was that “the jury’s verdict need not be unanimous”); Smith v. Swarthout, 742 F.3d 885, 895, n. 4 (CA9 2014) (“The Supreme Court has instructed that the Sixth and
 
Fourteenth Amendments do not require a unanimous verdict in state criminal prosecutions”); see also 6 W. LaFave, J. Israel, N. King, & O. Kerr, Criminal Procedure §22.1(e), p. 23 (4th ed. 2015) (the “
 
Sixth Amendment does not require jury unanimity in state criminal trials”). 

5
 Edwards argues that the Ramos rule mirrors the rule announced in Burch v. Louisiana,

441 U.S. 130, 134 (1979).  In Burch, the Court held that six-person jury verdicts must be unanimous.  According to Edwards, the Court retroactively applied Burch in Brown v. Louisiana,

447 U.S. 323 (1980).  But the Justices who concurred in the judgment and supplied the decisive opinion in Brown said only that the Burch rule should apply to all cases on direct review.  447 U. S., at 337 (opinion of Powell, J., joined by Stevens, J.).  They did not say that the rule should apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  So Brown does not help Edwards here. The Court’s decision in Ivan V. v. City of New York,

407 U.S. 203 (1972) (per curiam), is no more helpful to Edwards.  In In re Winship, the Court held that a jury must find guilt “beyond a reasonable doubt.”

397 U.S. 358, 364 (1970).  And in Ivan V., the Court held that the rule announced in Winship applied in a case on direct review.  407 U. S., at 205.  But in its numerous retroactivity cases, this Court has never identified the Winship rule as a watershed rule of criminal procedure that applies retroactively on federal collateral review.  That no doubt explains why, in his submissions to this Court, Edwards himself did not cite Ivan V. in support of his retroactivity argument. In any event, Brown and Ivan V. were pre-Teague decisions.  See Teague v. Lane,

489 U.S. 288 (1989).  Because Teague tightened the previous standard set forth in Linkletter v. Walker,

381 U.S. 618 (1965), for applying a decision retroactively on federal collateral review, pre-Teague decisions holding that a rule is retroactive are not as relevant as pre-Teague decisions holding that a rule is not retroactive, such as DeStefano. 

6
 The Ramos rule does not apply retroactively on federal collateral review.  States remain free, if they choose, to retroactively apply the jury-unanimity rule as a matter of state law in state post-conviction proceedings.  See Danforth v. Minnesota,

552 U.S. 264, 282 (2008). 


