::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-074
::decision_cite:: 19-715
::decision_name::  Trump v. Mazars USA, LLP
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the
United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the
Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States,
Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal
errors, in order that corrections may be made before the
preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–715 and 19–760

															_________________

															DONALD J. TRUMP, et al., PETITIONERS

															19–715v.

															MAZARS USA, LLP, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit

															

															DONALD J. TRUMP, et al., PETITIONERS

															19–760v.

															DEUTSCHE BANK AG, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[July 9, 2020]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of
the Court.

															Over the course of five days in April 2019,
three committees of the U. S. House of Representatives issued
four subpoenas seeking information about the finances of President
Donald J. Trump, his children, and affiliated businesses. We have
held that the House has authority under the Constitution to issue
subpoenas to assist it in carrying out its legislative
responsibilities. The House asserts that the financial information
sought here—encompassing a decade’s worth of
transactions by the President and his family—will help guide
legislative reform in areas ranging from money laundering and
terrorism to foreign involvement in U. S. elections. The
President contends that the House lacked a valid legislative aim
and instead sought these records to harass him, expose personal
matters, and conduct law enforcement activities beyond its
authority. The question presented is whether the subpoenas exceed
the authority of the House under the Constitution.

															We have never addressed a congressional subpoena
for the President’s information. Two hundred years ago, it
was established that Presidents may be subpoenaed during a federal
criminal proceeding, United States v. Burr, 25 F.
Cas. 30 (No. 14,692d) (CC Va. 1807) (Marshall, Cir. J.), and
earlier today we extended that ruling to state criminal
proceedings, Trump v. Vance, ante, p. ___.
Nearly fifty years ago, we held that a federal prosecutor could
obtain information from a President despite assertions of executive
privilege, United States v. Nixon, 418
U.S. 683 (1974), and more recently we ruled that a private
litigant could subject a President to a damages suit and
appropriate discovery obligations in federal court, Clinton
v. Jones, 520 U.S.
681 (1997).

															This case is different. Here the
President’s information is sought not by prosecutors or
private parties in connection with a particular judicial
proceeding, but by committees of Congress that have set forth broad
legislative objectives. Congress and the President—the two
political branches established by the Constitution—have an
ongoing relationship that the Framers intended to feature both
rivalry and reciprocity. See The Federalist No. 51, p. 349 (J.
Cooke ed. 1961) (J. Madison); Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S.
579, 635 (1952) (Jackson, J., concurring). That distinctive
aspect necessarily informs our analysis of the question before
us.

															I

															A

															Each of the three committees sought
overlapping sets of financial documents, but each supplied
different justifications for the requests.

															The House Committee on Financial Services issued
two subpoenas, both on April 11, 2019. App. 128, 154, 226. The
first, issued to Deutsche Bank, seeks the financial information of
the President, his children, their immediate family members, and
several affiliated business entities. Specifically, the subpoena
seeks any document related to account activity, due diligence,
foreign transactions, business statements, debt schedules,
statements of net worth, tax returns, and suspicious activity
identified by Deutsche Bank. The second, issued to Capital One,
demands similar financial information with respect to more than a
dozen business entities associated with the President. The Deutsche
Bank subpoena requests materials from “2010 through the
present,” and the Capital One subpoena covers “2016
through the present,” but both subpoenas impose no time
limitations for certain documents, such as those connected to
account openings and due diligence. Id., at 128, 155.

															According to the House, the Financial Services
Committee issued these subpoenas pursuant to House Resolution 206,
which called for “efforts to close loopholes that allow
corruption, terrorism, and money laundering to infiltrate our
country’s financial system.” H. Res. 206, 116th
Cong., 1st Sess., 5 (Mar. 13, 2019). Such loopholes, the resolution
explained, had allowed “illicit money, including from Russian
oligarchs,” to flow into the United States through
“anonymous shell companies” using investments such as
“luxury high-end real estate.” Id., at 3. The
House also invokes the oversight plan of the Financial Services
Committee, which stated that the Committee intends to review
banking regulation and “examine the implementation,
effectiveness, and enforcement” of laws designed to prevent
money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
H. R. Rep. No. 116–40, p. 84 (2019). The plan
further provided that the Committee would “consider proposals
to prevent the abuse of the financial system” and
“address any vulnerabilities identified” in the real
estate market. Id., at 85.

															On the same day as the Financial Services
Committee, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence issued an
identical subpoena to Deutsche Bank—albeit for different
reasons. According to the House, the Intelligence Committee
subpoenaed Deutsche Bank as part of an investigation into foreign
efforts to undermine the U. S. political process. Committee
Chairman Adam Schiff had described that investigation in a previous
statement, explaining that the Committee was examining alleged
attempts by Russia to influence the 2016 election; potential links
between Russia and the President’s campaign; and whether the
President and his associates had been compromised by foreign actors
or interests. Press Release, House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence, Chairman Schiff Statement on House Intelligence
Committee Investigation (Feb. 6, 2019). Chairman Schiff added that
the Committee planned “to develop legislation and policy
reforms to ensure the U. S. government is better positioned to
counter future efforts to undermine our political process and
national security.” Ibid.

															Four days after the Financial Services and
Intelligence Committees, the House Committee on Oversight and
Reform issued another subpoena, this time to the President’s
personal accounting firm, Mazars USA, LLP. The subpoena demanded
information related to the President and several affiliated
business entities from 2011 through 2018, including statements of
financial condition, independent auditors’ reports, financial
reports, underlying source documents, and communications between
Mazars and the President or his businesses. The subpoena also
requested all engagement agreements and contracts “[w]ithout
regard to time.” App. to Pet. for Cert. in 19–715, p.
230.

															Chairman Elijah Cummings explained the basis for
the subpoena in a memorandum to the Oversight Committee. According
to the chairman, recent testimony by the President’s former
personal attorney Michael Cohen, along with several documents
prepared by Mazars and supplied by Cohen, raised questions about
whether the President had accurately represented his financial
affairs. Chairman Cummings asserted that the Committee had
“full authority to investigate” whether the President:
(1) “may have engaged in illegal conduct before and during
his tenure in office,” (2) “has undisclosed
conflicts of interest that may impair his ability to make impartial
policy decisions,” (3) “is complying with the
Emoluments Clauses of the Constitution,” and
(4) “has accurately reported his finances to the Office
of Government Ethics and other federal entities.” App. in No.
19–5142 (CADC), p. 107. “The Committee’s interest
in these matters,” Chairman Cummings concluded,
“informs its review of multiple laws and legislative
proposals under our jurisdiction.” Ibid.

															B

															Petitioners—the President in his
personal capacity, along with his children and affiliated
businesses—filed two suits challenging the subpoenas. They
contested the subpoena issued by the Oversight Committee in the
District Court for the District of Columbia (Mazars, No.
19–715), and the subpoenas issued by the Financial Services
and Intelligence Committees in the Southern District of New York
(Deutsche Bank, No. 19–760). In both cases,
petitioners contended that the subpoenas lacked a legitimate
legislative purpose and violated the separation of powers. The
President did not, however, resist the subpoenas by arguing that
any of the requested records were protected by executive privilege.
For relief, petitioners asked for declaratory judgments and
injunctions preventing Mazars and the banks from complying with the
subpoenas. Although named as defendants, Mazars and the banks took
no positions on the legal issues in these cases, and the House
committees intervened to defend the subpoenas.

															Petitioners’ challenges failed. In
Mazars, the District Court granted judgment for the House,
380 F. Supp. 3d 76 (DC 2019), and the D. C. Circuit
affirmed, 940 F.3d 710 (2019). In upholding the subpoena issued by
the Oversight Committee to Mazars, the Court of Appeals found that
the subpoena served a “valid legislative purpose”
because the requested information was relevant to reforming
financial disclosure requirements for Presidents and presidential
candidates. Id., at 726–742 (internal quotation marks
omitted). Judge Rao dissented. As she saw it, the
“gravamen” of the subpoena was investigating alleged
illegal conduct by the President, and the House must pursue such
wrongdoing through its impeachment powers, not its legislative
powers. Id., at 773–774. Otherwise, the House could
become a “roving inquisition over a co-equal branch of
government.” Id., at 748. The D. C. Circuit
denied rehearing en banc over several more dissents. 941 F.3d 1180,
1180–1182 (2019).

															In Deutsche Bank, the District Court
denied a preliminary injunction, 2019 WL 2204898 (SDNY, May 22,
2019), and the Second Circuit affirmed “in substantial
part,” 943 F.3d 627, 676 (2019). While acknowledging that the
subpoenas are “surely broad in scope,” the Court of
Appeals held that the Intelligence Committee properly issued its
subpoena to Deutsche Bank as part of an investigation into alleged
foreign influence over petitioners and Russian interference with
the U. S. political process. Id., at 650,
658–659. That investigation, the court concluded, could
inform legislation to combat foreign meddling and strengthen
national security. Id., at 658–659, and
n. 59.

															As to the subpoenas issued by the Financial
Services Committee to Deutsche Bank and Capital One, the Court of
Appeals concluded that they were adequately related to potential
legislation on money laundering, terrorist financing, and the
global movement of illicit funds through the real estate market.
Id., at 656–659. Rejecting the contention that the
subpoenas improperly targeted the President, the court explained in
part that the President’s financial dealings with Deutsche
Bank made it “appropriate” for the House to use him as
a “case study” to determine “whether new
legislation is needed.” Id., at 662–663, n.
67.[1]

															Judge Livingston dissented, seeing no
“clear reason why a congressional investigation aimed
generally at closing regulatory loopholes in the banking system
need focus on over a decade of financial information regarding this
President, his family, and his business affairs.” Id.,
at 687.

															We granted certiorari in both cases and stayed
the judgments below pending our decision. 589 U. S. ___
(2019).

															II

															A

															The question presented is whether the
subpoenas exceed the authority of the House under the Constitution.
Historically, disputes over congressional demands for presidential
documents have not ended up in court. Instead, they have been
hashed out in the “hurly-burly, the give-and-take of the
political process between the legislative and the executive.”
Hearings on S. 2170 et al. before the Subcommittee on
Intergovernmental Relations of the Senate Committee on Government
Operations, 94th Cong., 1st Sess., 87 (1975) (A. Scalia, Assistant
Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel).

															That practice began with George Washington and
the early Congress. In 1792, a House committee requested Executive
Branch documents pertaining to General St. Clair’s campaign
against the Indians in the Northwest Territory, which had concluded
in an utter rout of federal forces when they were caught by
surprise near the present-day border between Ohio and Indiana. See
T. Taylor, Grand Inquest: The Story of Congressional Investigations
19–23 (1955). Since this was the first such request from
Congress, President Washington called a Cabinet meeting, wishing to
take care that his response “be rightly conducted”
because it could “become a precedent.” 1 Writings of
Thomas Jefferson 189 (P. Ford ed. 1892).

															The meeting, attended by the likes of Alexander
Hamilton, Thomas Jefferson, Edmund Randolph, and Henry Knox, ended
with the Cabinet of “one mind”: The House had authority
to “institute inquiries” and “call for
papers” but the President could “exercise a
discretion” over disclosures, “communicat[ing] such
papers as the public good would permit” and
“refus[ing]” the rest. Id., at 189–190.
President Washington then dispatched Jefferson to speak to
individual congressmen and “bring them by persuasion into the
right channel.” Id., at 190. The discussions were
apparently fruitful, as the House later narrowed its request and
the documents were supplied without recourse to the courts. See 3
Annals of Cong. 536 (1792); Taylor, supra, at 24.

															Jefferson, once he became President, followed
Washington’s precedent. In early 1807, after Jefferson had
disclosed that “sundry persons” were conspiring to
invade Spanish territory in North America with a private army, 16
Annals of Cong. 686–687, the House requested that the
President produce any information in his possession touching on the
conspiracy (except for information that would harm the public
interest), id., at 336, 345, 359. Jefferson chose not to
divulge the entire “voluminous” correspondence on the
subject, explaining that much of it was “private” or
mere “rumors” and “neither safety nor
justice” permitted him to “expos[e] names” apart
from identifying the conspiracy’s “principal
actor”: Aaron Burr. Id., at 39–40. Instead of
the entire correspondence, Jefferson sent Congress particular
documents and a special message summarizing the conspiracy.
Id., at 39–43; see generally Vance,
ante, at 3–4. Neither Congress nor the President asked
the Judiciary to intervene.[2]

															Ever since, congressional demands for the
President’s information have been resolved by the political
branches without involving this Court. The Reagan and Clinton
presidencies provide two modern examples:

															During the Reagan administration, a House
subcommittee subpoenaed all documents related to the Department of
the Interior’s decision whether to designate Canada a
reciprocal country for purposes of the Mineral Lands Leasing Act.
President Reagan directed that certain documents be withheld
because they implicated his confidential relationship with
subordinates. While withholding those documents, the administration
made “repeated efforts” at accommodation through
limited disclosures and testimony over a period of several months.
6 Op. of Office of Legal Counsel 751, 780 (1982). Unsatisfied, the
subcommittee and its parent committee eventually voted to hold the
Secretary of the Interior in contempt, and an innovative compromise
soon followed: All documents were made available, but only for one
day with no photocopying, minimal notetaking, and no participation
by non-Members of Congress. Id., at 780–781; see H. R.
Rep. No. 97–898, pp. 3–8 (1982).

															In 1995, a Senate committee subpoenaed notes
taken by a White House attorney at a meeting with President
Clinton’s personal lawyers concerning the Whitewater
controversy. The President resisted the subpoena on the ground that
the notes were protected by attorney-client privilege, leading to
“long and protracted” negotiations and a Senate threat
to seek judicial enforcement of the subpoena. S. Rep. No.
104–204, pp. 16–17 (1996). Eventually the parties
reached an agreement, whereby President Clinton avoided the
threatened suit, agreed to turn over the notes, and obtained the
Senate’s concession that he had not waived any privileges.
Ibid.; see L. Fisher, Congressional Research Service,
Congressional Investigations: Subpoenas and Contempt Power
16–18 (2003).

															Congress and the President maintained this
tradition of negotiation and compromise—without the
involvement of this Court—until the present dispute. Indeed,
from President Washington until now, we have never considered a
dispute over a congressional subpoena for the President’s
records. And, according to the parties, the appellate courts have
addressed such a subpoena only once, when a Senate committee
subpoenaed President Nixon during the Watergate scandal. See
infra, at 13 (discussing Senate Select Committee on
Presidential Campaign Activities v. Nixon, 498 F.2d 725
(CADC 1974) (en banc)). In that case, the court refused to enforce
the subpoena, and the Senate did not seek review by this Court.

															This dispute therefore represents a significant
departure from historical practice. Although the parties agree that
this particular controversy is justiciable, we recognize that it is
the first of its kind to reach this Court; that disputes of this
sort can raise important issues concerning relations between the
branches; that related disputes involving congressional efforts to
seek official Executive Branch information recur on a regular
basis, including in the context of deeply partisan controversy; and
that Congress and the Executive have nonetheless managed for over
two centuries to resolve such disputes among themselves without the
benefit of guidance from us. Such longstanding practice “
‘is a consideration of great weight’ ” in cases
concerning “the allocation of power between [the] two elected
branches of Government,” and it imposes on us a duty of care
to ensure that we not needlessly disturb “the compromises and
working arrangements that [those] branches . . .
themselves have reached.” NLRB v. Noel Canning,
573 U.S.
513, 524–526 (2014) (quoting The Pocket Veto Case,
279 U.S.
655, 689 (1929)). With that in mind, we turn to the question
presented.

															B

															Congress has no enumerated constitutional
power to conduct investigations or issue subpoenas, but we have
held that each House has power “to secure needed
information” in order to legislate. McGrain v.
Daugherty, 273 U.S.
135, 161 (1927). This “power of inquiry—with
process to enforce it—is an essential and appropriate
auxiliary to the legislative function.” Id., at 174.
Without information, Congress would be shooting in the dark, unable
to legislate “wisely or effectively.” Id., at
175. The congressional power to obtain information is
“broad” and “indispensable.” Watkins
v. United States, 354 U.S.
178, 187, 215 (1957). It encompasses inquiries into the
administration of existing laws, studies of proposed laws, and
“surveys of defects in our social, economic or political
system for the purpose of enabling the Congress to remedy
them.” Id., at 187.

															Because this power is “justified solely as
an adjunct to the legislative process,” it is subject to
several limitations. Id., at 197. Most importantly, a
congressional subpoena is valid only if it is “related to,
and in furtherance of, a legitimate task of the Congress.”
Id., at 187. The subpoena must serve a “valid
legislative purpose,” Quinn v. United States,
349 U.S.
155, 161 (1955); it must “concern[ ] a subject on
which legislation ‘could be had,’ ”
Eastland v. United States Servicemen’s Fund,
421 U.S.
491, 506 (1975) (quoting McGrain, 273 U. S., at
177).

															Furthermore, Congress may not issue a subpoena
for the purpose of “law enforcement,” because
“those powers are assigned under our Constitution to the
Executive and the Judiciary.” Quinn, 349 U. S.,
at 161. Thus Congress may not use subpoenas to “try”
someone “before [a] committee for any crime or
wrongdoing.” McGrain, 273 U. S., at 179. Congress
has no “ ‘general’ power to inquire into
private affairs and compel disclosures,” id., at
173–174, and “there is no congressional power to expose
for the sake of exposure,” Watkins, 354 U. S., at
200. “Investigations conducted solely for the personal
aggrandizement of the investigators or to ‘punish’
those investigated are indefensible.” Id., at 187.

															Finally, recipients of legislative subpoenas
retain their constitutional rights throughout the course of an
investigation. See id., at 188, 198. And recipients have
long been understood to retain common law and constitutional
privileges with respect to certain materials, such as
attorney-client communications and governmental communications
protected by executive privilege. See, e.g., Congressional
Research Service, supra, at 16–18 (attorney-client
privilege); Senate Select Committee, 498 F. 2d, at 727,
730–731 (executive privilege).

															C

															The President contends, as does the Solicitor
General appearing on behalf of the United States, that the usual
rules for congressional subpoenas do not govern here because the
President’s papers are at issue. They argue for a more
demanding standard based in large part on cases involving the Nixon
tapes—recordings of conversations between President Nixon and
close advisers discussing the break-in at the Democratic National
Committee’s headquarters at the Watergate complex. The tapes
were subpoenaed by a Senate committee and the Special Prosecutor
investigating the break-in, prompting President Nixon to invoke
executive privilege and leading to two cases addressing the showing
necessary to require the President to comply with the subpoenas.
See Nixon, 418
U.S. 683; Senate Select Committee, 498 F.2d 725.

															Those cases, the President and the Solicitor
General now contend, establish the standard that should govern the
House subpoenas here. Quoting Nixon, the President asserts
that the House must establish a “demonstrated, specific
need” for the financial information, just as the Watergate
special prosecutor was required to do in order to obtain the tapes.
418 U. S., at 713. And drawing on Senate Select
Committee—the D. C. Circuit case refusing to enforce
the Senate subpoena for the tapes—the President and the
Solicitor General argue that the House must show that the financial
information is “demonstrably critical” to its
legislative purpose. 498 F. 2d, at 731.

															We disagree that these demanding standards apply
here. Unlike the cases before us, Nixon and Senate Select
Committee involved Oval Office communications over which the
President asserted executive privilege. That privilege safeguards
the public interest in candid, confidential deliberations within
the Executive Branch; it is “fundamental to the operation of
Government.” Nixon, 418 U. S., at 708. As a
result, information subject to executive privilege deserves
“the greatest protection consistent with the fair
administration of justice.” Id., at 715. We decline to
transplant that protection root and branch to cases involving
nonprivileged, private information, which by definition does not
implicate sensitive Executive Branch deliberations.

															The standards proposed by the President and the
Solicitor General—if applied outside the context of
privileged information—would risk seriously impeding Congress
in carrying out its responsibilities. The President and the
Solicitor General would apply the same exacting standards to
all subpoenas for the President’s information, without
recognizing distinctions between privileged and nonprivileged
information, between official and personal information, or between
various legislative objectives. Such a categorical approach would
represent a significant departure from the longstanding way of
doing business between the branches, giving short shrift to
Congress’s important interests in conducting inquiries to
obtain the information it needs to legislate effectively.
Confounding the legislature in that effort would be contrary to the
principle that:

															“It is the proper duty of a
representative body to look diligently into every affair of
government and to talk much about what it sees. It is meant to be
the eyes and the voice, and to embody the wisdom and will of its
constituents. Unless Congress have and use every means of
acquainting itself with the acts and the disposition of the
administrative agents of the government, the country must be
helpless to learn how it is being served.” United
States v. Rumely, 345 U.S.
41, 43 (1953) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Legislative inquiries might involve the
President in appropriate cases; as noted, Congress’s
responsibilities extend to “every affair of
government.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).
Because the President’s approach does not take adequate
account of these significant congressional interests, we do not
adopt it.

															D

															The House meanwhile would have us ignore that
these suits involve the President. Invoking our precedents
concerning investigations that did not target the President’s
papers, the House urges us to uphold its subpoenas because they
“relate[ ] to a valid legislative purpose” or
“concern[ ] a subject on which legislation could be
had.” Brief for Respondent 46 (quoting Barenblatt v.
United States, 360 U.S.
109, 127 (1959), and Eastland, 421 U. S., at 506).
That approach is appropriate, the House argues, because the cases
before us are not “momentous separation-of-powers
disputes.” Brief for Respondent 1.

															Largely following the House’s lead, the
courts below treated these cases much like any other, applying
precedents that do not involve the President’s papers. See
943 F. 3d, at 656–670; 940 F. 3d, at 724–742.
The Second Circuit concluded that “this case does not concern
separation of powers” because the House seeks personal
documents and the President sued in his personal capacity. 943
F. 3d, at 669. The D. C. Circuit, for its part,
recognized that “separation-of-powers concerns still linger
in the air,” and therefore it did not afford deference to the
House. 940 F. 3d, at 725–726. But, because the House
sought only personal documents, the court concluded that the case
“present[ed] no direct interbranch dispute.”
Ibid.

															The House’s approach fails to take
adequate account of the significant separation of powers issues
raised by congressional subpoenas for the President’s
information. Congress and the President have an ongoing
institutional relationship as the “opposite and rival”
political branches established by the Constitution. The Federalist
No. 51, at 349. As a result, congressional subpoenas directed at
the President differ markedly from congressional subpoenas we have
previously reviewed, e.g., Barenblatt, 360
U. S., at 127; Eastland, 421 U. S., at 506, and
they bear little resemblance to criminal subpoenas issued to the
President in the course of a specific investigation, see
Vance, ante, p. ___; Nixon, 418
U.S. 683. Unlike those subpoenas, congressional subpoenas for
the President’s information unavoidably pit the political
branches against one another. Cf. In re Sealed Case,
121 F.3d 729, 753 (CADC 1997) (“The President’s ability
to withhold information from Congress implicates different
constitutional considerations than the President’s ability to
withhold evidence in judicial proceedings.”).

															Far from accounting for separation of powers
concerns, the House’s approach aggravates them by leaving
essentially no limits on the congressional power to subpoena the
President’s personal records. Any personal paper possessed by
a President could potentially “relate to” a conceivable
subject of legislation, for Congress has broad legislative powers
that touch a vast number of subjects. Brief for Respondent 46. The
President’s financial records could relate to economic
reform, medical records to health reform, school transcripts to
education reform, and so on. Indeed, at argument, the House was
unable to identify any type of information that lacks some
relation to potential legislation. See Tr. of Oral Arg.
52–53, 62–65.

															Without limits on its subpoena powers, Congress
could “exert an imperious controul” over the Executive
Branch and aggrandize itself at the President’s expense, just
as the Framers feared. The Federalist No. 71, at 484 (A. Hamilton);
see id., No. 48, at 332–333 (J. Madison);
Bowsher v. Synar, 478 U.S.
714, 721–722, 727 (1986). And a limitless subpoena power
would transform the “established practice” of the
political branches. Noel Canning, 573 U. S., at 524
(internal quotation marks omitted). Instead of negotiating over
information requests, Congress could simply walk away from the
bargaining table and compel compliance in court.

															The House and the courts below suggest that
these separation of powers concerns are not fully implicated by the
particular subpoenas here, but we disagree. We would have to be
“blind” not to see what “[a]ll others can see and
understand”: that the subpoenas do not represent a
run-of-the-mill legislative effort but rather a clash between rival
branches of government over records of intense political interest
for all involved. Rumely, 345 U. S., at 44 (quoting
Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U.S.
20, 37 (1922) (Taft, C. J.)).

															The interbranch conflict here does not vanish
simply because the subpoenas seek personal papers or because the
President sued in his personal capacity. The President is the only
person who alone composes a branch of government. As a result,
there is not always a clear line between his personal and official
affairs. “The interest of the man” is often
“connected with the constitutional rights of the
place.” The Federalist No. 51, at 349. Given the close
connection between the Office of the President and its occupant,
congressional demands for the President’s papers can
implicate the relationship between the branches regardless whether
those papers are personal or official. Either way, a demand may aim
to harass the President or render him “complaisan[t] to the
humors of the Legislature.” Id., No. 71, at 483. In
fact, a subpoena for personal papers may pose a heightened risk of
such impermissible purposes, precisely because of the
documents’ personal nature and their less evident connection
to a legislative task. No one can say that the controversy here is
less significant to the relationship between the branches simply
because it involves personal papers. Quite the opposite. That
appears to be what makes the matter of such great consequence to
the President and Congress.

															In addition, separation of powers concerns are
no less palpable here simply because the subpoenas were issued to
third parties. Congressional demands for the President’s
information present an interbranch conflict no matter where the
information is held—it is, after all, the President’s
information. Were it otherwise, Congress could sidestep
constitutional requirements any time a President’s
information is entrusted to a third party—as occurs with
rapidly increasing frequency. Cf. Carpenter v. United
States, 585 U. S. ___, ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 15,
17). Indeed, Congress could declare open season on the
President’s information held by schools, archives, internet
service providers, e-mail clients, and financial institutions. The
Constitution does not tolerate such ready evasion; it “deals
with substance, not shadows.” Cummings v.
Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 325 (1867).

															E

															Congressional subpoenas for the
President’s personal information implicate weighty concerns
regarding the separation of powers. Neither side, however,
identifies an approach that accounts for these concerns. For more
than two centuries, the political branches have resolved
information disputes using the wide variety of means that the
Constitution puts at their disposal. The nature of such
interactions would be transformed by judicial enforcement of either
of the approaches suggested by the parties, eroding a
“[d]eeply embedded traditional way[ ] of conducting
government.” Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co., 343
U. S., at 610 (Frankfurter, J., concurring).

															A balanced approach is necessary, one that takes
a “considerable impression” from “the practice of
the government,” McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 401 (1819); see Noel Canning, 573 U. S., at
524–526, and “resist[s]” the “pressure
inherent within each of the separate Branches to exceed the outer
limits of its power,” INS v. Chadha, 462 U.S.
919, 951 (1983). We therefore conclude that, in assessing
whether a subpoena directed at the President’s personal
information is “related to, and in furtherance of, a
legitimate task of the Congress,” Watkins, 354
U. S., at 187, courts must perform a careful analysis that
takes adequate account of the separation of powers principles at
stake, including both the significant legislative interests of
Congress and the “unique position” of the President,
Clinton, 520 U. S., at 698 (internal quotation marks
omitted). Several special considerations inform this analysis.

															First, courts should carefully assess whether
the asserted legislative purpose warrants the significant step of
involving the President and his papers. “
‘[O]ccasion[s] for constitutional confrontation between the
two branches’ should be avoided whenever possible.”
Cheney v. United States Dist. Court for D. C.,
542 U.S.
367, 389–390 (2004) (quoting Nixon, 418
U. S., at 692). Congress may not rely on the President’s
information if other sources could reasonably provide Congress the
information it needs in light of its particular legislative
objective. The President’s unique constitutional position
means that Congress may not look to him as a “case
study” for general legislation. Cf. 943 F. 3d, at
662–663, n. 67.

															Unlike in criminal proceedings, where
“[t]he very integrity of the judicial system” would be
undermined without “full disclosure of all the facts,”
Nixon, 418 U. S., at 709, efforts to craft legislation
involve predictive policy judgments that are “not hamper[ed]
. . . in quite the same way” when every scrap of
potentially relevant evidence is not available, Cheney, 542
U. S., at 384; see Senate Select Committee, 498 F. 2d,
at 732. While we certainly recognize Congress’s important
interests in obtaining information through appropriate inquiries,
those interests are not sufficiently powerful to justify access to
the President’s personal papers when other sources could
provide Congress the information it needs.

															Second, to narrow the scope of possible conflict
between the branches, courts should insist on a subpoena no broader
than reasonably necessary to support Congress’s legislative
objective. The specificity of the subpoena’s request
“serves as an important safeguard against unnecessary
intrusion into the operation of the Office of the President.”
Cheney, 542 U. S., at 387.

															Third, courts should be attentive to the nature
of the evidence offered by Congress to establish that a subpoena
advances a valid legislative purpose. The more detailed and
substantial the evidence of Congress’s legislative purpose,
the better. See Watkins, 354 U. S., at 201, 205
(preferring such evidence over “vague” and
“loosely worded” evidence of Congress’s purpose).
That is particularly true when Congress contemplates legislation
that raises sensitive constitutional issues, such as legislation
concerning the Presidency. In such cases, it is
“impossible” to conclude that a subpoena is designed to
advance a valid legislative purpose unless Congress adequately
identifies its aims and explains why the President’s
information will advance its consideration of the possible
legislation. Id., at 205–206, 214–215.

															Fourth, courts should be careful to assess the
burdens imposed on the President by a subpoena. We have held that
burdens on the President’s time and attention stemming from
judicial process and litigation, without more, generally do not
cross constitutional lines. See Vance, ante, at
12–14; Clinton, 520 U. S., at 704–705. But
burdens imposed by a congressional subpoena should be carefully
scrutinized, for they stem from a rival political branch that has
an ongoing relationship with the President and incentives to use
subpoenas for institutional advantage.

															Other considerations may be pertinent as well;
one case every two centuries does not afford enough experience for
an exhaustive list.

															When Congress seeks information “needed
for intelligent legislative action,” it
“unquestionably” remains “the duty of all
citizens to cooperate.” Watkins, 354 U. S., at
187 (emphasis added). Congressional subpoenas for information from
the President, however, implicate special concerns regarding the
separation of powers. The courts below did not take adequate
account of those concerns. The judgments of the Courts of Appeals
for the D. C. Circuit and the Second Circuit are vacated, and
the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 The Court of Appeals
directed a “limited” remand for the District Court to
consider whether it was necessary to disclose certain
“sensitive personal details” (such as documents
reflecting medical services received by employees of the Trump
business entities) and a “few” documents that might not
relate to the committees’ legislative purposes. 943 F.3d 627,
667–668, 675 (2019). The Court of Appeals ordered that all
other documents be “promptly transmitted” to the
committees. Id., at 669.
2
 By contrast, later that
summer, the Judiciary was called on to resolve whether
President Jefferson could be issued a subpoena duces tecum
arising from Burr’s criminal trial. See United States
v. Burr, 25 F. Cas. 30 (No. 14,692d) (CC Va. 1807); see also
Trump v. Vance, ante, at
5–7.


