::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-071
::decision_cite:: 19-7
::decision_name::  Seila Law LLC v. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															 _________________

															No. 19–7

															_________________

															SEILA LAW LLC, PETITIONER v. CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 29, 2020]

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Gorsuch joins, concurring in part and dissenting in part.

															The Court’s decision today takes a restrained approach on the merits by limiting Humphrey’s Executor v. United States,

295 U.S. 602 (1935), rather than overruling it.  At the same time, the Court takes an aggressive approach on severability by severing a provision when it is not necessary to do so.  I would do the opposite.

															Because the Court takes a step in the right direction by limiting Humphrey’s Executor to “multimember expert agencies that do not wield substantial executive power,” ante, at 16 (emphasis added), I join Parts I, II, and III of its opinion.  I respectfully dissent from the Court’s severability analysis, however, because I do not believe that we should address severability in this case.

															I

															The decision in Humphrey’s Executor poses a direct threat to our constitutional structure and, as a result, the liberty of the American people.  The Court concludes that it is not strictly necessary for us to overrule that decision.  See ante, at 2, 13–17.  But with today’s decision, the Court has repudiated almost every aspect of Humphrey’s Executor.  In a future case, I would repudiate what is left of this erroneous precedent. 

															A

															“The Constitution does not vest the Federal Government with an undifferentiated ‘governmental power.’ ”  Department of Transportation v. Association of American Railroads,

575 U.S. 43, 67 (2015) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment).  It sets out three branches and vests a different form of power in each—legislative, executive, and judicial.  See Art. I, §1; Art. II, §1, cl. 1; Art. III, §1.

															Article II of the Constitution vests “[t]he executive Power” in the “President of the United States of America,” §1, cl. 1, and directs that he shall “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed,” §3.  Of course, the President cannot fulfill his role of executing the laws without assistance.  See Myers v. United States,

272 U.S. 52, 117 (1926).  He therefore must “select those who [are] to act for him under his direction in the execution of the laws.”  Ibid.  While these officers assist the President in carrying out his constitutionally assigned duties, “[t]he buck stops with the President.”  Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Bd.,

561 U.S. 477, 493 (2010).  “Since 1789, the Constitution has been understood to empower the President to keep [his] officers accountable—by removing them from office, if necessary.”  Id., at 483.  The Framers “insist[ed]” upon “unity in the Federal Executive” to “ensure both vigor and accountability” to the people.  Printz v. United States,

521 U.S. 898, 922 (1997); see also ante, at 22.

															Despite the defined structural limitations of the Constitution and the clear vesting of executive power in the President, Congress has increasingly shifted executive power to a de facto fourth branch of Government—independent agencies.  These agencies wield considerable executive power without Presidential oversight.  They are led by officers who are insulated from the President by removal restrictions, “reduc[ing] the Chief Magistrate to [the role of] cajoler-in-chief.”  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 502.  But “[t]he people do not vote for the Officers of the United States.  They instead look to the President to guide the assistants or deputies subject to his superintendence.”  Id., at 497–498 (alterations, internal quotation marks and citation omitted).  Because independent agencies wield substantial power with no accountability to either the President or the people, they “pose a significant threat to individual liberty and to the constitutional system of separation of powers and checks and balances.”  PHH Corp. v. CFPB, 881 F.3d 75, 165 (CADC 2018) (Kavanaugh, J., dissenting).

															Unfortunately, this Court “ha[s] not always been vigilant about protecting the structure of our Constitution,” at times endorsing a “more pragmatic, flexible approach” to our Government’s design.  Perez v. Mortgage Bankers Assn.,

575 U.S. 92, 115–116 (2015) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Our tolerance of independent agencies in Humphrey’s Executor is an unfortunate example of the Court’s failure to apply the Constitution as written.  That decision has paved the way for an ever-expanding encroachment on the power of the Executive, contrary to our constitutional design.

															B

															1

															The lead up to Humphrey’s Executor begins with this Court’s decision in Myers,

272 U.S. 52.  Myers involved a federal statute that prohibited the President from removing certain postmasters except “by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.”  Id., at 107 (internal quotation marks omitted).  The question presented was “whether under the Constitution the President has the exclusive power of removing executive officers of the United States whom he has appointed by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.”  Id., at 106.  In a 70-page opinion by Chief Justice Taft, the Court held that the Constitution did vest such power in the President.

															The Court anchored its analysis in evidence from the founding era.  It acknowledged that the “subject [of removal] was not discussed in the Constitutional Convention,” id., at 109–110, but it reviewed in detail the First Congress’ vigorous debate about the removal of executive officers in what is known as the Decision of 1789, id., at 111–135.[1]  In the course of analyzing the Decision of 1789, the Court explained that Article II vests “the executive power of the Government . . . in one person”—the President—and that the executive power includes the authority to “select those who [are] to act for him under his direction in the execution of the laws.”  Id., at 116–117.  Reiterating the position of James Madison and other Members of the First Congress, the Court noted that allowing limits on the President’s removal authority would grant Congress “the means of thwarting the Executive in the exercise of his great powers and in the bearing of his great responsibility, by fastening upon him, as subordinate executive officers, men who by their inefficient service under him, by their lack of loyalty to the service, or by their different views of policy might make his taking care that the laws be faithfully executed most difficult or impossible.”  Id., at 131.  After “devot[ing] much space to [the] discussion and decision of the question of the Presidential power of removal in the First Congress” as well as its understanding of the executive power, id., at 136, the Court concluded that “the power to remove officers appointed by the President and the Senate vested in the President alone,” id., at 114.  It repeatedly described this removal power as “unrestricted.”  Id., at 115, 134, 150, 172, 176.

															The Court noted that the First Congress’ understanding of the removal question was quickly “accepted as a final decision of the question by all branches of the Government.”  Id., at 136.  The decision was “affirmed by this Court in unmistakable terms.”  Id., at 148, 152–153 (discussing Ex parte Hennen, 13 Pet. 230, 259 (1839); Parsons v. United States,

167 U.S. 324, 330 (1897)).  Presidents had “uniform[ly]” adopted the First Congress’ view “whenever an issue ha[d] clearly been raised.”  Myers, 272 U. S., at 169.  And “Congress, in a number of acts, followed and enforced the legislative decision of 1789 for seventy-four years.”  Id., at 145.  While disputes with President Andrew Johnson over Reconstruction led Congress to “enact legislation to curtail the then acknowledged powers of the President,” id., at 165, the Myers Court declined to give these politically charged acts any weight, id., at 175–176.

															After exhaustively analyzing the historical evidence, the Court had “no hesitation in holding that [the First Congress’] conclusion [was] correct.”  Id., at 176.  Accordingly, the Court held that “the provision of the law [at issue], by which the unrestricted power of removal of first class postmasters is denied to the President, [was] in violation of the Constitution, and invalid.”  Ibid.

															2

															Nine years after Myers, the Court decided Humphrey’s Executor.  That case arose from the attempted removal of Commissioner William Humphrey from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).  In 1931, President Herbert Hoover appointed Humphrey to serve a 7-year term as one of the FTC’s five Commissioners.  By all accounts, Humphrey proved to be a controversial figure.  See Crane, Debunking Humphrey’s Executor, 83 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 1836, 1841 (2015); Winerman, The FTC at Ninety: History Through Headlines, 72 Antitrust L. J. 871, 878–879 (2005); Yoo, Calabresi, & Nee, The Unitary Executive During the Third Half-Century, 1889–1945, 80 Notre Dame L. Rev. 1, 64 (2004).  He reportedly “vowed not to approve any Commission action that did not have as its goal to help business help itself,” “threaten[ed] criminal prosecution against other commissioners who publicly dissented,” and “called his fellow commissioners men drunk with their own greatness” when they voted to initiate an investigation.  Crane, supra, at 1841 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Less than two years into Humphrey’s term, newly inaugurated President Franklin D. Roosevelt wrote Humphrey a letter, asking for his resignation.  The President explained that, in his view, “the aims and purposes of the Administration with respect to the work of the Commission [could] be carried out most effectively with personnel of [his] own selection.”  Humphrey’s Executor, 295 U. S., at 618 (internal quotation marks omitted).  A little over a month after his first letter, President Roosevelt wrote Humphrey again to ask for his resignation.  The letter stated: “You will, I know, realize that I do not feel that your mind and my mind go along together on either the policies or the administering of the [FTC], and, frankly, I think it is best for the people of this country that I should have a full confidence.”  Id., at 619 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Humphrey declined to resign.  In October 1933, President Roosevelt informed Humphrey that he was removed from his position.  Humphrey did not comply, continuing “to insist that he was still a member of the commission, entitled to perform its duties and receive the compensation provided by law.”  Ibid.

															Four months later, Humphrey died.  The executor of his estate brought suit in the Court of Claims, seeking to recover Humphrey’s salary from the date of his removal until the date of his death.  The Court of Claims certified two questions to this Court: (1) whether §1 of the Federal Trade Commission Act of 1914, ch. 311,

38Stat.
717, prohibited the President from removing FTC Commissioners except for “inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office,” and (2) if so, whether that restriction was constitutional.  295 U. S., at 619 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															The Court answered both of these questions in favor of Humphrey’s estate.  It first held that the FTC Act “limit[ed] the executive power of removal to the causes enumerated” therein—inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.  Id., at 626.  In the Court’s view, this construction of the Act was clear from “the face of the statute” and “the character of the commission,” id., at 624, which the Court described as a “body of experts” that operates “independent of executive authority . . . and free to exercise its judgment without the leave or hindrance of any other official,” id., at 625–626.

															Then, notwithstanding the text of Article II of the Constitution and the decision in Myers, the Court held that the Act’s restriction on the President’s authority to remove Commissioners was constitutional.  The Court acknowledged that the “recently decided” Myers decision had “fully review[ed] the general subject of the power of executive removal” and “examine[d] at length the historical, legislative and judicial data bearing upon the question.”  Humphrey’s Executor, 295 U. S., at 626.  And it conceded that executive officers are “subject to the exclusive and illimitable power of removal by the Chief Executive.”  Id., at 627; see also id., at 631 (recognizing “the President’s illimitable power of removal” over executive officers).[2]  The Court, however, claimed that “[t]he office of a postmaster is so essentially unlike the office [of an FTC Commissioner] that the decision in the Myers case [could not] be accepted as controlling.”  Id., at 627.  In the Court’s view, unlike the postmaster in Myers, FTC commissioners did not qualify as “purely executive officers.”  295 U. S., at 632.

															The Court grounded its analysis in its assertion that the FTC “occupies no place in the executive department and . . . exercises no part of the executive power vested by the Constitution in the President.”  Id., at 628.  Rather, in the Court’s view, by “filling in and administering the details embodied by [the FTC Act’s] general standard[,] the commission act[ed] in part quasi-legislatively and in part quasi-judicially.”  Ibid.  The Court stated that the FTC acted “as a legislative agency” by “making investigations and reports thereon for the information of Congress” and acted “as an agency of the judiciary” when performing its role “as a master in chancery under rules prescribed by the court.”  Ibid.  “Such a body,” the Court explained, “cannot in any proper sense be characterized as an arm or an eye of the executive.”  Ibid.

															After distinguishing “purely executive officers” from officers exercising “quasi-legislative or quasi-judicial powers,” ibid., the Court held that “[w]hether the power of the President to remove an officer shall prevail over the authority of Congress to condition the power by . . . precluding a removal except for cause, will depend upon the character of the office,” id., at 631.  “[P]urely executive officers” are subject to the President’s “unrestrictable power . . . to remove.”  Id., at 632.  But with regard to “quasi-legislative” and “quasi-judicial” officers, the Court concluded that “no removal [could] be made . . . except for one or more of the causes named.”  Ibid.

															3

															Humphrey’s Executor laid the foundation for a fundamental departure from our constitutional structure with nothing more than handwaving and obfuscating phrases such as “quasi-legislative” and “quasi-judicial.”  Unlike the thorough analysis in Myers, the Court’s thinly reasoned decision is completely “devoid of textual or historical precedent for the novel principle it set forth.”  Morrison v. Olson,

487 U.S. 654, 726 (1988) (Scalia, J., dissenting).  The exceptional weakness of the reasoning could be a product of the circumstances under which the case was decided—in the midst of a bitter standoff between the Court and President Roosevelt[3]—or it could be just another example of this Court departing from the strictures of the Constitution for a “more pragmatic, flexible approach” to our government’s design.  Perez, 575 U. S., at 116 (opinion of Thomas, J.) (internal quotation marks omitted).  But whatever the motivation, Humphrey’s Executor does not comport with the Constitution.

															Humphrey’s Executor relies on one key premise: the notion that there is a category of “quasi-legislative” and “quasi-judicial” power that is not exercised by Congress or the Judiciary, but that is also not part of “the executive power vested by the Constitution in the President.”  Humphrey’s Executor, supra, at 628.  Working from that premise, the Court distinguished the “illimitable” power of removal recognized in Myers, Humphrey’s Executor, 295 U. S., at 627–628, and upheld the FTC Act’s removal restriction, while simultaneously acknowledging that the Constitution vests the President with the entirety of the executive power, id., at 628.

															The problem is that the Court’s premise was entirely wrong.  The Constitution does not permit the creation of officers exercising “quasi-legislative” and “quasi-judicial powers” in “quasi-legislative” and “quasi-judicial agencies.”  Id., at 628–629.  No such powers or agencies exist.  Congress lacks the authority to delegate its legislative power, Whitman v. American Trucking Assns., Inc.,

531 U.S. 457, 472 (2001), and it cannot authorize the use of judicial power by officers acting outside of the bounds of Article III, Stern v. Marshall,

564 U.S. 462, 484 (2011).  Nor can Congress create agencies that straddle multiple branches of Government.  The Constitution sets out three branches of Government and provides each with a different form of power—legislative, executive, and judicial.  See Art. I, §1; Art. II, §1, cl. 1; Art. III, §1.  Free-floating agencies simply do not comport with this constitutional structure.  “[A]gencies have been called quasi-legislative, quasi-executive or quasi-judicial, as the occasion required, in order to validate their functions within the separation-of-powers scheme of the Constitution.”  FTC v. Ruberoid Co.,

343 U.S. 470, 487 (1952) (Jackson, J., dissenting).  But “[t]he mere retreat to the qualifying ‘quasi’ is implicit with confession that all recognized classifications have broken down, and ‘quasi’ is a smooth cover which we draw over our confusion as we might use a counterpane to conceal a disordered bed.”  Id., at 487–488.

															That is exactly what happened in Humphrey’s Executor.  The Court upheld the FTC Act’s removal restriction by using the “quasi” label to support its claim that the FTC “exercise[d] no part of the executive power vested by the Constitution in the President.”  Humphrey’s Executor, supra, at 628.  But “it is hard to dispute that the powers of the FTC at the time of Humphrey’s Executor would at the present time be considered ‘executive,’ at least to some degree.”  Morrison, supra, at 690, n. 28; see ante, at 14, n. 2; see post, at 18, n. 7 (Kagan, J., concurring in judgment with respect to severability and dissenting in part).

															C

															Today’s decision constitutes the latest in a series of cases that have significantly undermined Humphrey’s Executor.  First, in Morrison, the Court repudiated the reasoning of the decision.  487 U. S., at 689.  Then, in Free Enterprise Fund, we returned to the principles set out in the “landmark case of Myers.”  561 U. S., at 492.  And today, the Court rightfully limits Humphrey’s Executor to “multimember expert agencies that do not wield substantial executive power.”  Ante, at 16.  After these decisions, the foundation for Humphrey’s Executor is not just shaky.  It is nonexistent.

															This Court’s repudiation of Humphrey’s Executor began with its decision in Morrison.  There, the Court upheld a statute insulating an independent counsel from removal by the Attorney General absent a showing of “good cause.”  Morrison, supra, at 659–660.  In doing so, the Court set aside the reasoning of Humphrey’s Executor.  It recognized that Humphrey’s Executor “rel[ied] on the terms ‘quasi- legislative’ and ‘quasi-judicial’ to distinguish the officials involved in Humphrey’s Executor . . . from those in Myers.” 487 U. S., at 689.  But it then immediately stated that its “present considered view is that the determination of whether the Constitution allows Congress to impose a ‘good cause’-type restriction on the President’s power to remove an official cannot be made to turn on whether or not that official is classified as ‘purely executive.’ ”  Ibid.  The Court also rejected Humphrey’s Executor’s conclusion that the FTC did not exercise executive power, stating that “the powers of the FTC at the time of Humphrey’s Executor would at the present time be considered ‘executive.’ ”  Morrison, supra, at 690, n. 28.  The lone dissenter, Justice Scalia, disagreed with much of the Court’s analysis but noted that the Court had rightfully “swept” Humphrey’s Executor “into the dustbin of repudiated constitutional principles.”  487 U. S., at 725.  Thus, all nine Members of the Court in Morrison rejected the core rationale of Humphrey’s Executor.

															The reasoning of the Court’s decision in Free Enterprise Fund created further tension (if not outright conflict) with Humphrey’s Executor.  In Free Enterprise Fund, the Court concluded that a dual layer of for-cause removal restrictions for members of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board violated the Constitution.  In its analysis, the Court recognized that allowing officers to “execute the laws” beyond the President’s control “is contrary to Article II’s vesting of the executive power in the President.”  561 U. S., at 496 (emphasis added).  The Court acknowledged that “the executive power include[s] a power to oversee executive officers through removal.”  Id., at 492.  And it explained that, without the power of removal, the President cannot “be held fully accountable” for the exercise of the executive power, “ ‘greatly diminish[ing] the intended and necessary responsibility of the chief magistrate himself.’ ”  Id., at 514 (quoting The Federalist No. 70, p. 478 (J. Cooke ed. 1961) (A. Hamilton)).  Accountability, the Court repeatedly emphasized, plays a central role in our constitutional structure.  See, e.g., Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 498 (“[E]xecutive power without the Executive’s oversight . . . subverts the President’s ability to ensure that the laws are faithfully executed—as well as the public’s ability to pass judgment on his efforts”); id., at 513 (“The Constitution that makes the President accountable to the people for executing the laws also gives him the power to do so”).  Humphrey’s Executor is at odds with every single one of these principles: It ignores Article II’s Vesting Clause, sidesteps the President’s removal power, and encourages the exercise of executive power by unaccountable officers.  The reasoning of the two decisions simply cannot be reconciled.

															Finally, today’s decision builds upon Morrison and Free Enterprise Fund, further eroding the foundation of Humphrey’s Executor.  The Court correctly notes that “[t]he entire ‘executive Power’ belongs to the President alone.”  Ante, at 11.  The President therefore must have “power to remove—and thus supervise—those who wield executive power on his behalf.”  Ante, at 2.  As a result, the Court concludes that Humphrey’s Executor must be limited to “multimember expert agencies that do not wield substantial executive power.”  Ante, at 16 (emphasis added).  And, at the same time, it recognizes (as the Court did in Morrison) that “[t]he Court’s conclusion that the FTC did not exercise executive power has not withstood the test of time.”  Ante, at 14, n. 2.  In other words, Humphrey’s Executor does not even satisfy its own exception.

															In light of these decisions, it is not clear what is left of Humphrey’s Executor’s rationale.[4]  But if any remnant of that decision is still standing, it certainly is not enough to justify the numerous, unaccountable independent agencies that currently exercise vast executive power outside the bounds of our constitutional structure.

															*  *  *

															Continued reliance on Humphrey’s Executor to justify the existence of independent agencies creates a serious, ongoing threat to our Government’s design.  Leaving these unconstitutional agencies in place does not enhance this Court’s legitimacy; it subverts political accountability and threatens individual liberty.  We have a “responsibility to ‘examin[e] without fear, and revis[e] without reluctance,’ any ‘hasty and crude decisions’ rather than leaving ‘the character of [the] law impaired, and the beauty and harmony of the [American constitutional] system destroyed by the perpetuity of error.’ ”  Gamble v. United States, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 7) (quoting 1 J. Kent, Commentaries on American Law 444 (1826); some alterations in original).  We simply cannot compromise when it comes to our Government’s structure.  Today, the Court does enough to resolve this case, but in the future, we should reconsider Humphrey’s Executor in toto.  And I hope that we will have the will to do so.

															II

															While I think that the Court correctly resolves the merits of the constitutional question, I do not agree with its decision to sever the removal restriction in

12 U. S. C. §5491(c)(3).  See ante, at 30–36; post, at 37.  To resolve this case, I would simply deny the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) petition to enforce the civil investigative demand.

															A

															Article III of the Constitution vests “[t]he judicial Power of the United States” in the “supreme Court” and the lower federal courts established by Congress.  §1.  “[T]he judicial power is, fundamentally, the power to render judgments in individual cases” or controversies that are properly before the court.  Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., 584 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2018) (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 2–3); see also Plaut v. Spendthrift Farm, Inc.,

514 U.S. 211, 219 (1995) (“ ‘[A] “judicial Power” is one to render dispositive judgments’ ”); Baude, The Judgment Power, 96 Geo. L. J. 1807, 1815–1816 (2008).  “[T]he power exercised is that of ascertaining and declaring the law applicable to the controversy.”  Massachusetts v. Mellon,

262 U.S. 447, 488 (1923).  In the context of a constitutional challenge, “[i]t amounts to little more than the negative power to disregard an unconstitutional enactment.”  Ibid.; see also Mitchell, The Writ-of-Erasure Fallacy, 104 Va. L. Rev. 933, 936 (2018).  Thus, if a party argues that a statute and the Constitution conflict, “then courts must resolve that dispute and, . . . follow the higher law of the Constitution.”  Murphy, 584 U. S., at ___ (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 3).

															Consistent with this understanding, “[e]arly American courts did not have a severability doctrine.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 2) (citing Walsh, Partial Unconstitutionality, 85 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 738, 769 (2010)).  If a statute was unconstitutional, the court would just decline to enforce the statute in the case before it.  584 U. S., at ___ (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 3).  That was the end of the matter.  “[T]here was no ‘next step’ in which [a] cour[t]” severed portions of a statute.  Walsh, supra, at 777.

															Our modern severability precedents create tension with this historic practice.  Instead of declining to enforce an unconstitutional statute in an individual case, this Court has stated that courts must “seve[r] and excis[e]” portions of a statute to “remedy” the constitutional problem.  United States v. Booker,

543 U.S. 220, 245 (2005); Alaska Airlines, Inc. v. Brock,

480 U.S. 678, 686 (1987).  The Court’s rhetoric when discussing severance implies that a court’s decision to sever a provision “formally suspend[s] or erase[s it], when [the provision] actually remains on the books as a law.”  Mitchell, supra, at 1017.  The Federal Judiciary does not have the power to excise, erase, alter, or otherwise strike down a statute.  Murphy, supra, at ___ (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 4); Mitchell, supra, at 936.  And the Court’s reference to severability as a “remedy” is inaccurate.  Traditional remedies—like injunctions, declarations, or damages—“ ‘operate with respect to specific parties,’ not ‘on legal rules in the abstract.’ ”  Murphy, supra, at ___ (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 3) (quoting Harrison, Severability, Remedies, and Constitutional Adjudication, 83 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 56, 85 (2014)).

															Because the power of judicial review does not allow courts to revise statutes, Mitchell, supra, at 983, the Court’s severability doctrine must be rooted in statutory interpretation.  But, even viewing severability as an interpretive question, I remain skeptical of our doctrine.  As I have previously explained, “the severability doctrine often requires courts to weigh in on statutory provisions that no party has standing to challenge, bringing courts dangerously close to issuing advisory opinions.”  Murphy, 584 U. S., at ___ (concurring opinion) (slip op., at 5).  And the application of the doctrine “does not follow basic principles of statutory interpretation.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 4).  Instead of determining the meaning of a statute’s text, severability involves “nebulous inquir[ies] into hypothetical congressional intent.”  Booker, supra, at 320, n. 7 (Thomas, J., dissenting in part).

															B

															Consistent with the traditional understanding of the judicial power, I would deny CFPB’s petition to enforce the civil investigative demand that it issued to Seila.  See §5562(e)(1).  Seila “challenge[d] the validity of both the civil investigative demand and the ensuing enforcement action.”  Reply Brief for Petitioner 5.  Seila has not countersued or sought affirmative relief preventing the CFPB from acting in the future; it simply asks us to “reverse the court of appeals’ judgment.”  Brief for Petitioner 35.  I would do just that.  As the Court recognizes, the enforcement of a civil investigative demand by an official with unconstitutional removal protection injures Seila.  See ante, at 9–10.  Presented with an enforcement request from an unconstitutionally insulated Director, I would simply deny the CFPB’s petition for an order of enforcement.  This approach would resolve the dispute before us without addressing the issue of severability.

															The Court, however, does more.  In the plurality’s view,[5] because the CFPB raised a ratification argument before the Court of Appeals, we can (and should) reach the question of severability.  See ante, at 30–31.  But as explained more fully below, resolving this question is wholly unnecessary.  Regardless of whether the CFPB’s ratification theory is valid, the Court of Appeals on remand must reach the same outcome: The CFPB’s civil investigative demand cannot be enforced against Seila.

															The ratification argument presented by the CFPB is quite simple.  Since its creation in 2010, the CFPB has had three Directors—first Director Richard Cordray, then Acting Director Mick Mulvaney, and now Director Kathleen Kraninger.  The CFPB’s first Director, Director Cordray, issued a civil investigative demand to Seila and initiated the enforcement action.  The CFPB has conceded that these actions were unconstitutional.  But, in the Ninth Circuit, the CFPB argued that the investigative demand was ratified by Acting Director Mulvaney, who it claimed was not insulated by the removal provision.  Brief for Appellee in No. 17–56324, pp. 13–19.  In the CFPB’s view, the President could remove Acting Director Mulvaney at will because the “removal provision by its terms applies only to ‘the Director,’ not to an Acting Director,” and the Federal Vacancy Reform Act “does not limit the President’s ability to designate a different person as Acting Director.”  Id., at 14.  Based on this ratification theory, the CFPB asked the Ninth Circuit to affirm the District Court’s order granting the CFPB’s petition to enforce its investigative demand.

															The CFPB does not ask this Court to address ratification on the merits, but it does rely on its unresolved ratification theory to assert that the Court should reach severability.  In doing so, the CFPB relies on the same theory that it presented to the Ninth Circuit.  Thus, the only live ratification claim is the theory that Acting Director Mulvaney ratified the civil investigative demand.  See ante, at 30–31.[6]

															The resolution of the CFPB’s Acting-Director ratification theory, however, has no bearing on the outcome of the dispute before us and therefore provides no basis for addressing severability.  If the Acting Director did not ratify the investigative demand, then there is obviously no need to address severability.  And even if he did, the Court still does not need to address severability because the alleged ratification does not cure the constitutional injury—enforcement of an investigative demand by an unconstitutionally insulated Director.  Seila “challenge[d] the validity of both the civil investigative demand and the ensuing enforcement action.”  Reply Brief for Petitioner 5 (emphasis added).  Acting Director Mulvaney may (or may not) have properly ratified the issuance of the investigative demand and the initiation of the enforcement proceedings.  But he certainly could not ratify the continuance of the enforcement action by his successor, Director Kraninger.  Id., at 7.  Thus, even if the CFPB’s ratification theory is valid, Seila still has an injury: It has been (and continues to be) subjected to enforcement of an investigative demand by Director Kraninger, who “remains statutorily insulated from removal.”  Reply Brief for Respondent 7; see also Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 513; ante, at 10.  Thus, we should decline to enforce the civil investigative demand against Seila.  See supra, at 14–15.

															Ultimately, I cannot see how the resolution of the severability question affects the dispute before us.  And even if severability could affect this case in some hypothetical scenario, I would not reach out to resolve the issue given my growing discomfort with our current severability precedents.

															C

															Confident that it can address the question of severability, the plurality moves on to conduct its analysis.  It starts by pointing to the severability clause in the Dodd-Frank Act.  See ante, at 33.  That clause states: “If any provision of this Act, an amendment made by this Act, or the application of such provision or amendment to any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act, the amendments made by this Act, and the application of the provisions of such to any person or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.”  §5302.  The plurality states that “[i]f the Director were removable at will by the President, the constitutional violation would disappear.”  Ante, at 32–33.  Then, relying on language in the severability clause, it concludes that the removal provision, §5491(c)(3), should be severed.

															The plurality suggests that its analysis is a matter of simply enforcing the “plain language” of the severability clause. See ante, at 33.  But I am not sure it is that simple.  For one, the plurality does not actually analyze the statutory language.[7]  Second, the analysis the plurality does provide looks nothing like traditional statutory interpretation.  Generally, when we interpret a statute, we do not hold that the text sets out a “presum[ption]” that can be rebutted by looking to atextual evidence of legislative intent.  Ante, at 32.  A text-based interpretation does not allow a free-ranging inquiry into what “ ‘Congress, faced with the limitations imposed by the Constitution, would have preferred’ ” had it known of a constitutional issue.  Ante, at 33 (quoting Free Enterprise Fund, supra, at 509).  Nor does it consider whether Congress would have wanted to avoid “a major regulatory disruption.”  Ante, at 35.  Statutory interpretation focuses on the text.

															Even treating the question as a matter of pure statutory interpretation and assuming that the plurality points to the correct language, the text of the severability clause cannot, in isolation, justify severance of the removal provision.  In some instances, a constitutional injury arises as a result of two or more statutory provisions operating together.  See, e.g., Free Enterprise Fund, supra, at 509 (stating that the convergence of “a number of statutory provisions” produce a constitutional violation); Booker, 543 U. S., at 316–317 (opinion of Thomas, J.) (explaining that “the concerted action of [18 U. S. C.] §3553(b)(1) and the operative Guidelines and the relevant Rule of Criminal Procedure resulted in unconstitutional judicial factfinding”); Lea, Situation Severability, 103 Va. L. Rev. 735, 778–780 (2017) (discussing statutory convergences).  That is precisely the situation we have in this case.  As in Free Enterprise Fund, the provision requiring “good-cause removal is only one of [the] statutory provisions that, working together, produce a constitutional violation.”  561 U. S., at 509.  The constitutional violation results from, at a minimum, the combination of the removal provision,

12 U. S. C. §5491(c)(3), and the provision allowing the CFPB to seek enforcement of a civil investigative demand, §5562(e)(1).  When confronted with two provisions that operate together to violate the Constitution, the text of the severability clause provides no guidance as to which provision should be severed.  Thus, we must choose, based on something other than the severability clause, which provision to sever.

															Without text to guide us, the severability inquiry moves away from statutory interpretation and falls back on this Court’s questionable precedents.  See Murphy, 584 U. S., at ___–___ (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 4–6).  An analysis of the Court’s decisions in Booker and Free Enterprise Fund illustrates the Court’s approach to determining which provision to sever when confronting an injury caused by an unconstitutional convergence of multiple statutory provisions.

															In Booker, a Rule of Criminal Procedure, a subset of provisions in the Sentencing Guidelines, and a statutory provision operated together to require unconstitutional judicial factfinding.  To determine which aspect of the sentencing scheme to sever, the Court sought to divine “what Congress would have intended in light of the Court’s constitutional holding.”  Booker, 543 U. S., at 246 (internal quotation marks omitted).  The Court “recognize[d] that sometimes severability questions . . . can arise [in the context of] a legislatively unforeseen constitutional problem.”  Id., at 247.  But it nonetheless felt qualified to craft a remedy that would “move sentencing in Congress’ preferred direction.”  Id., at 264.  Surprisingly, that “move” did not involve enforcing the constitutional aspects of Congress’ sentencing scheme.  The Court stated that “we cannot assume that Congress, if faced with the statute’s invalidity in key applications, would have preferred to apply the statute in as many other instances as possible.”  Id., at 248.[8]  Despite the fact that there were a plethora of cases in which mandatory Sentencing Guidelines would have posed no constitutional problem, the Court decided to “sever and excise . . . the provision that requires sentencing courts to impose a sentence within the applicable Guidelines range,” along with another provision which was not even at issue in the case.  Id., at 259.  In essence, the Court crafted a new sentencing scheme, transforming the Sentencing Guidelines into an entirely discretionary system based on its estimation that Congress would have wanted that result.

															The Court in Free Enterprise Fund declined to explicitly engage in Booker’s free-wheeling inquiry into Congress’ hypothetical preferences, but it did not replace that inquiry with a clear standard.  In that case, the Court held that a “number of statutory provisions . . . , working together, produce[d] a constitutional violation” similar to the violation at issue here.  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 509.  The Court decided to sever the Board’s removal restriction.  It explicitly recognized that there were multiple ways to address the constitutional injury, stating that the Court could, for example, “blue-pencil a sufficient number of the Board’s responsibilities,” or “restrict the Board’s enforcement powers.”  Ibid.  But it described these alternative options as involving “editorial freedom—far more extensive than [the] holding today—[that] belongs to the Legislature, not the Judiciary.”  Id., at 510.  The Court did not explain, however, why the option that it chose was not also “editorial freedom” that belongs to the Legislature or why the alternatives involved “more extensive” “editorial freedom” than its preferred option.  Ibid.  The most that the Court provided was a suggestion that fewer provisions would have to be severed under its approach.  Id., at 509–510.

															Today’s plurality opinion provides no further guidance.  In fact, the plurality does not even recognize that it has made a choice between the provisions that cause the constitutional injury.  It merely states that “[i]f the Director were removable at will by the President, the constitutional violation would disappear.”  Ante, at 32–33.  Fair enough.  But if the Director lacked executive authority under the statute to seek enforcement of a civil investigative demand, §5562(e)(1), the constitutional violation in this case would also disappear.  The plurality thus chooses which of the provisions to sever.

															In short, when multiple provisions of law combine to cause a constitutional injury, the Court’s current approach allows the Court to decide which provision to sever.  The text of a severability clause does not guide that choice.  Nor does the practice of early American courts.  See supra, at 14–15.  The Court is thus left to choose based on nothing more than speculation as to what the Legislature would have preferred.  And the result of its choice can have a dramatic effect on the governing statutory scheme.  See Booker, supra, at 259 (converting the entirety of the Sentencing Guidelines from a mandatory to a discretionary system).  This is not a simple matter of following the “plain language” of a statute.  Ante, at 33.  It is incumbent on us to take a close look at our precedents to make sure that we are not exceeding the scope of the judicial power.

															*  *  *

															Given my concerns about our modern severability doctrine and the fact that severability makes no difference to the dispute before us, I would resolve this case by simply denying the CFPB’s petition to enforce the civil investigative demand.
Notes
1
 For a comprehensive review of the Decision of 1789, see Prakash, New Light on the Decision of 1789, 91 Cornell L. Rev. 1021 (2006). 

2
 The explicit and repeated recognition of the President’s “illimitable power” in Humphrey’s Executor highlights the dissent’s error in claiming that Humphrey’s Executor “abandoned [the] view” set out in Myers v. United States,

272 U.S. 52 (1926).  Post, at 17 (Kagan, J., concurring in judgment with respect to severability and dissenting in part) (hereinafter dissent).  Humphrey’s Executor did not abandon Myers; it distinguished Myers based on the flawed premise that the FTC exercised “quasi-legislative” and “quasi-judicial” power that is not part of “the executive power vested by the Constitution in the President.”  Humphrey’s Executor, 295 U. S., at 628; see also infra, at 9–11. 

3
 A number of historical sources indicate that President Roosevelt saw Humphrey’s Executor v. United States,

295 U.S. 602 (1935), as an attack on his administration.  Given the Court’s recent decision in Myers, the Roosevelt administration was reportedly “stunned” by the Court’s decision in Humphrey’s Executor, and the President was particularly annoyed that the decision “ma[de] it appear that he had been willfully violating the Constitution.”  See W. Leuchtenberg, The Supreme Court Reborn 78 (1995).  Justice Jackson, who was serving in the Roosevelt administration at the time, stated in an interview that “ ‘the decision that made Roosevelt madder at the Court than any other decision was that . . . little case of Humphrey’s Executor v. United States.  The President thought they went out of their way to spite him personally.’ ”  E. Gerhart, America’s Advocate: Robert H. Jackson 99 (1958) (quoting 1949 interview with Justice Jackson). 

4
 The dissent, while vigorously defending the holding of Humphrey's Executor, can muster no defense for the reasoning of the decision.  The dissent does not defend the notion of “quasi” powers or “quasi” agencies, recognizing that the power exercised by the FTC was executive power.  See post, at 18, n. 7.  And, in 39 pages, it cannot explain how any aspect of Humphrey’s Executor (other than its holding) survived Morrison v. Olson,

487 U.S. 654 (1988), and Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Bd.,

561 U.S. 477 (2010).  Instead, the dissent simply claims that Humphrey’s Executor was “extended” and “clarified” in Morrison, post, at 19, attempting to breathe validity into Humphrey’s Executor through the Court’s Morrison decision.  But the dissent’s reading of Morrison as “extend[ing] Humphrey’s domain” is baffling.  Post, at 19.  Morrison expressly repudiated the substantive reasoning of Humphrey’s Executor.  See supra, at 11–12.    

5
 The dissent provides no analysis of severability, simply stating “if the agency’s removal provision is unconstitutional, it should be severed.”  Post, at 37. 

6
 The Court-appointed amicus suggests that the CFPB’s current Director, Director Kraninger, ratified the enforcement proceeding by maintaining the suit after she stated her belief that the removal provision is unconstitutional.  But the CFPB expressly disclaimed the notion that Director Kraninger had the power to ratify the civil investigative demand, stating that she “remains statutorily insulated from removal, regardless whether she believes the law is invalid.”  Reply Brief for Respondent 7. 

7
 The severability clause refers to three alternative scenarios: (1) a “provision of [the] Act . . . is held to be unconstitutional”; (2) “an amendment made by [the] Act . . . is held unconstitutional”; and (3) “the application of [a] provision or amendment [of the Act] to any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional.”

12 U. S. C. §5302.  The plurality assumes, with no analysis, that this case falls in the first scenario, calling for a provision to be severed from the Dodd-Frank Act.  See ante, at 33.  But, as discussed below, there is no single “provision” of the Act that has led to the constitutional injury in this case.  See infra, at 20–21.  It is the attempted enforcement of a civil investigative demand under §5562(e)(1) by an unconstitutionally insulated Director that causes the constitutional injury in this case.  There is at least a nonfrivolous argument that this case implicates the third scenario contemplated by the severability clause—i.e., “the application of [a] provision” in a certain “circumstance.”  §5302.  If that were so, the text of the severability clause would not require any “provision” to be severed; the unconstitutional application of §5562(e)(1) simply would not affect other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Such a reading would be consistent with the traditional limits on the judicial power.  See supra, at 14–15. 

8
 This statement in Booker is irreconcilable with the plurality’s assertion here that “Congress would prefer that we use a scalpel rather than a bulldozer in curing the constitutional defect.”  Ante, at 35.   Thus, it appears that the plurality either sub silentio “junk[s] our settled severability doctrine,” ibid., or invokes, without explanation, different assumptions for different cases. 


