::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-071
::decision_cite:: 19-7
::decision_name::  Seila Law LLC v. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–7

															_________________

															SEILA LAW LLC, PETITIONER v. CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 29, 2020]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the Court with respect to Parts I, II, and III.

															In the wake of the 2008 financial crisis, Congress established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), an independent regulatory agency tasked with ensuring that consumer debt products are safe and transparent.  In organizing the CFPB, Congress deviated from the structure of nearly every other independent administrative agency in our history.  Instead of placing the agency under the leadership of a board with multiple members, Congress provided that the CFPB would be led by a single Director, who serves for a longer term than the President and cannot be removed by the President except for inefficiency, neglect, or malfeasance.  The CFPB Director has no boss, peers, or voters to report to.  Yet the Director wields vast rulemaking, enforcement, and adjudicatory authority over a significant portion of the U. S. economy.  The question before us is whether this arrangement violates the Constitution’s separation of powers.

															Under our Constitution, the “executive Power”—all of it—is “vested in a President,” who must “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.”  Art. II, §1, cl. 1; id., §3.  Because no single person could fulfill that responsibility alone, the Framers expected that the President would rely on subordinate officers for assistance.  Ten years ago, in Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Bd.,

561 U.S. 477 (2010), we reiterated that, “as a general matter,” the Constitution gives the President “the authority to remove those who assist him in carrying out his duties,” id., at 513–514.  “Without such power, the President could not be held fully accountable for discharging his own responsibilities; the buck would stop somewhere else.”  Id., at 514.

															The President’s power to remove—and thus supervise—those who wield executive power on his behalf follows from the text of Article II, was settled by the First Congress, and was confirmed in the landmark decision Myers v. United States,

272 U.S. 52 (1926).  Our precedents have recognized only two exceptions to the President’s unrestricted removal power.  In Humphrey’s Executor v. United States,

295 U.S. 602 (1935), we held that Congress could create expert agencies led by a group of principal officers removable by the President only for good cause.  And in United States v. Perkins,

116 U.S. 483 (1886), and Morrison v. Olson,

487 U.S. 654 (1988), we held that Congress could provide tenure protections to certain inferior officers with narrowly defined duties.

															We are now asked to extend these precedents to a new configuration: an independent agency that wields significant executive power and is run by a single individual who cannot be removed by the President unless certain statutory criteria are met.  We decline to take that step.  While we need not and do not revisit our prior decisions allowing certain limitations on the President’s removal power, there are compelling reasons not to extend those precedents to the novel context of an independent agency led by a single Director.  Such an agency lacks a foundation in historical practice and clashes with constitutional structure by concentrating power in a unilateral actor insulated from Presidential control.

															We therefore hold that the structure of the CFPB violates the separation of powers.  We go on to hold that the CFPB Director’s removal protection is severable from the other statutory provisions bearing on the CFPB’s authority.  The agency may therefore continue to operate, but its Director, in light of our decision, must be removable by the President at will.

															I

															A

															In the summer of 2007, then-Professor Elizabeth Warren called for the creation of a new, independent federal agency focused on regulating consumer financial products.  Warren, Unsafe at Any Rate, Democracy (Summer 2007).  Professor Warren believed the financial products marketed to ordinary American households—credit cards, student loans, mortgages, and the like—had grown increasingly unsafe due to a “regulatory jumble” that paid too much attention to banks and too little to consumers.  Ibid.  To remedy the lack of “coherent, consumer-oriented” financial regulation, she proposed “concentrat[ing] the review of financial products in a single location”—an independent agency modeled after the multimember Consumer Product Safety Commission.  Ibid.

															That proposal soon met its moment.  Within months of Professor Warren’s writing, the subprime mortgage market collapsed, precipitating a financial crisis that wiped out over $10 trillion in American household wealth and cost millions of Americans their jobs, their retirements, and their homes.  In the aftermath, the Obama administration embraced Professor Warren’s recommendation.  Through the Treasury Department, the administration encouraged Congress to establish an agency with a mandate to ensure that “consumer protection regulations” in the financial sector “are written fairly and enforced vigorously.”  Dept. of Treasury, Financial Regulatory Reform: A New Foundation 55 (2009).  Like Professor Warren, the administration envisioned a traditional independent agency, run by a multimember board with a “diverse set of viewpoints and experiences.”  Id., at 58.

															In 2010, Congress acted on these proposals and created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) as an independent financial regulator within the Federal Reserve System.  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank),

124Stat.
1376.  Congress tasked the CFPB with “implement[ing]” and “enforc[ing]” a large body of financial consumer protection laws to “ensur[e] that all consumers have access to markets for consumer financial products and services and that markets for consumer financial products and services are fair, transparent, and competitive.”

12 U. S. C. §5511(a).  Congress transferred the administration of 18 existing federal statutes to the CFPB, including the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and the Truth in Lending Act.  See §§5512(a), 5481(12), (14).  In addition, Congress enacted a new prohibition on “any unfair, deceptive, or abusive act or practice” by certain participants in the consumer-finance sector.  §5536(a)(1)(B).  Congress authorized the CFPB to implement that broad standard (and the 18 pre-existing statutes placed under the agency’s purview) through binding regulations.  §§5531(a)–(b), 5581(a)(1)(A), (b).

															Congress also vested the CFPB with potent enforcement powers.  The agency has the authority to conduct investigations, issue subpoenas and civil investigative demands, initiate administrative adjudications, and prosecute civil actions in federal court.  §§5562, 5564(a), (f ).  To remedy violations of federal consumer financial law, the CFPB may seek restitution, disgorgement, and injunctive relief, as well as civil penalties of up to $1,000,000 (inflation adjusted) for each day that a violation occurs.  §§5565(a), (c)(2); 12 CFR §1083.1(a), Table (2019).  Since its inception, the CFPB has obtained over $11 billion in relief for over 25 million consumers, including a $1 billion penalty against a single bank in 2018.  See CFPB, Financial Report of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Fiscal Year 2015, p. 3; CFPB, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection Announces Settlement With Wells Fargo for Auto-Loan Administration and Mortgage Practices (Apr. 20, 2018).

															The CFPB’s rulemaking and enforcement powers are coupled with extensive adjudicatory authority.  The agency may conduct administrative proceedings to “ensure or enforce compliance with” the statutes and regulations it administers.

12 U. S. C. §5563(a).  When the CFPB acts as an adjudicator, it has “jurisdiction to grant any appropriate legal or equitable relief.”  §5565(a)(1).  The “hearing officer” who presides over the proceedings may issue subpoenas, order depositions, and resolve any motions filed by the parties.  12 CFR §1081.104(b).  At the close of the proceedings, the hearing officer issues a “recommended decision,” and the CFPB Director considers that recommendation and “issue[s] a final decision and order.”  §§1081.400(d), 1081.402(b); see also §1081.405.

															Congress’s design for the CFPB differed from the proposals of Professor Warren and the Obama administration in one critical respect.  Rather than create a traditional independent agency headed by a multimember board or commission, Congress elected to place the CFPB under the leadership of a single Director.

12 U. S. C. §5491(b)(1).  The CFPB Director is appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate.  §5491(b)(2).  The Director serves for a term of five years, during which the President may remove the Director from office only for “inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.”  §§5491(c)(1), (3).

															Unlike most other agencies, the CFPB does not rely on the annual appropriations process for funding.  Instead, the CFPB receives funding directly from the Federal Reserve, which is itself funded outside the appropriations process through bank assessments.  Each year, the CFPB requests an amount that the Director deems “reasonably necessary to carry out” the agency’s duties, and the Federal Reserve grants that request so long as it does not exceed 12% of the total operating expenses of the Federal Reserve (inflation adjusted).  §§5497(a)(1), (2)(A)(iii), 2(B).  In recent years, the CFPB’s annual budget has exceeded half a billion dollars.  See CFPB, Fiscal Year 2019: Ann. Performance Plan and Rep., p. 7.

															B

															Seila Law LLC is a California-based law firm that provides debt-related legal services to clients.  In 2017, the CFPB issued a civil investigative demand to Seila Law to determine whether the firm had “engag[ed] in unlawful acts or practices in the advertising, marketing, or sale of debt relief services.”  2017 WL 6536586, *1 (CD Cal., Aug. 25, 2017).  See also

12 U. S. C. §5562(c)(1) (authorizing the agency to issue such demands to persons who “may have any information[ ] relevant to a violation” of one of the laws enforced by the CFPB).  The demand (essentially a subpoena) directed Seila Law to produce information and documents related to its business practices.

															Seila Law asked the CFPB to set aside the demand, objecting that the agency’s leadership by a single Director removable only for cause violated the separation of powers.  The CFPB declined to address that claim and directed Seila Law to comply with the demand.

															When Seila Law refused, the CFPB filed a petition to enforce the demand in the District Court.  See §5562(e)(1) (creating cause of action for that purpose).  In response, Seila Law renewed its defense that the demand was invalid and must be set aside because the CFPB’s structure violated the Constitution.  The District Court disagreed and ordered Seila Law to comply with the demand (with one modification not relevant here).

															The Court of Appeals affirmed.  923 F.3d 680 (CA9 2019).  The Court observed that the “arguments for and against” the constitutionality of the CFPB’s structure had already been “thoroughly canvassed” in majority, concurring, and dissenting opinions by the en banc Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in PHH Corp. v. CFPB, 881 F.3d 75 (2018), which had rejected a challenge similar to the one presented here.  923 F. 3d, at 682.  The Court saw “no need to re-plow the same ground.”  Ibid.  Instead, it provided a brief explanation for why it agreed with the PHH Court’s core holding.  The Court took as its starting point Humphrey’s Executor, which had approved for-cause removal protection for the Commissioners of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).  In applying that precedent, the Court recognized that the CFPB wields “substantially more executive power than the FTC did back in 1935” and that the CFPB’s leadership by a single Director (as opposed to a multimember commission) presented a “structural difference” that some jurists had found “dispositive.”  923 F. 3d, at 683–684.  But the Court felt bound to disregard those differences in light of our decision in Morrison, which permitted a single individual (an independent counsel) to exercise a core executive power (prosecuting criminal offenses) despite being insulated from removal except for cause.  Because the Court found Humphrey’s Executor and Morrison “controlling,” it affirmed the District Court’s order requiring compliance with the demand.  923 F. 3d, at 684.

															We granted certiorari to address the constitutionality of the CFPB’s structure.  589 U. S. ___ (2019).  We also requested argument on an additional question: whether, if the CFPB’s structure violates the separation of powers, the CFPB Director’s removal protection can be severed from the rest of the Dodd-Frank Act.

															Because the Government agrees with petitioner on the merits of the constitutional question, we appointed Paul Clement to defend the judgment below as amicus curiae.  He has ably discharged his responsibilities.

															II

															We first consider three threshold arguments raised by the appointed amicus for why we may not or should not reach the merits.  Each is unavailing.

															First, amicus argues that the demand issued to petitioner is not “traceable” to the alleged constitutional defect because two of the three Directors who have in turn played a role in enforcing the demand were (or now consider themselves to be) removable by the President at will.  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae 21–24.  Amicus highlights the Government’s argument below that the demand, originally issued by former Director Richard Cordray, had been ratified by an acting CFPB Director who, according to the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC), was removable by the President at will.  See Brief for Appellee in No. 17–56324 (CA9), pp. 1, 10, 13–19 (citing Designating an Acting Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, 41 Op. OLC ___, ___ (Nov. 25, 2017)).  Amicus further observes that current CFPB Director Kathleen Kraninger, now responsible for enforcing the demand, agrees with the Solicitor General’s position in this case that her for-cause removal protection is unconstitutional.  See Brief for Respondent on Pet. for Cert. 20; Letter from K. Kraninger, CFPB Director, to M. McConnell, Majority Leader, U. S. Senate, p. 2 (Sept. 17, 2019); Letter from K. Kraninger, CFPB Director, to N. Pelosi, Speaker, U. S. House of Representatives, p. 2 (Sept. 17, 2019).[1]  In amicus’ view, these developments reveal that the demand would have been issued—and would continue to be enforced—even in the absence of the CFPB Director’s removal protection, making the asserted separation of powers dispute “artificial.”  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae 22.

															Even if that were true, it would not deprive us of jurisdiction.  Amicus’ traceability argument appears to challenge petitioner’s Article III standing.  See Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife,

504 U.S. 555, 560 (1992) (explaining that the plaintiff ’s injury must be “fairly traceable to the challenged action of the defendant” (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted)).  But amicus’ argument does not cast any doubt on the jurisdiction of the District Court because petitioner is the defendant and did not invoke the Court’s jurisdiction.  See Bond v. United States,

564 U.S. 211, 217 (2011) (When the plaintiff has standing, “Article III does not restrict the opposing party’s ability to object to relief being sought at its expense.”).

															It is true that “standing must be met by persons seeking appellate review, just as it must be met by persons appearing in courts of first instance.”  Hollingsworth v. Perry,

570 U.S. 693, 705 (2013) (internal quotation marks omitted).  But petitioner’s appellate standing is beyond dispute.  Petitioner is compelled to comply with the civil investigative demand and to provide documents it would prefer to withhold, a concrete injury.  That injury is traceable to the decision below and would be fully redressed if we were to reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand with instructions to deny the Government’s petition to enforce the demand.

															Without engaging with these principles, amicus contends that a litigant wishing to challenge an executive act on the basis of the President’s removal power must show that the challenged act would not have been taken if the responsible official had been subject to the President’s control.  See Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae 21–24.  Our precedents say otherwise.  We have held that a litigant challenging governmental action as void on the basis of the separation of powers is not required to prove that the Government’s course of conduct would have been different in a “counterfactual world” in which the Government had acted with constitutional authority.  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 512, n. 12.  In the specific context of the President’s removal power, we have found it sufficient that the challenger “sustain[s] injury” from an executive act that allegedly exceeds the official’s authority.  Bowsher v. Synar,

478 U.S. 714, 721 (1986).

															Second, amicus contends that the proper context for assessing the constitutionality of an officer’s removal restriction is a contested removal.  See Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae 24–27.  While that is certainly one way to review a removal restriction, it is not the only way.  Our precedents have long permitted private parties aggrieved by an official’s exercise of executive power to challenge the official’s authority to wield that power while insulated from removal by the President.  See Bowsher, 478 U. S., at 721 (lawsuit filed by aggrieved third party in the absence of contested removal); Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 487 (same); Morrison, 487 U. S., at 668–669 (defense to subpoena asserted by third party in the absence of contested removal).  Indeed, we have expressly “reject[ed]” the “argument that consideration of the effect of a removal provision is not ‘ripe’ until that provision is actually used,” because when such a provision violates the separation of powers it inflicts a “here-and-now” injury on affected third parties that can be remedied by a court.  Bowsher, 478 U. S., at 727, n. 5 (internal quotation marks omitted).  The Court of Appeals therefore correctly entertained petitioner’s constitutional defense on the merits.

															Lastly, amicus contends that we should dismiss the case because the parties agree on the merits of the constitutional question and the case therefore lacks “adverseness.”  Tr. of Oral Arg. 42–43, 45–46.  That contention, however, is foreclosed by United States v. Windsor,

570 U.S. 744 (2013).  There, we explained that a lower court order that presents real-world consequences for the Government and its adversary suffices to support Article III jurisdiction—even if “the Executive may welcome” an adverse order that “is accompanied by the constitutional ruling it wants.”  Id., at 758.  Here, petitioner and the Government disagree about whether petitioner must comply with the civil investigative demand.  The lower courts sided with the Government, and the Government has not volunteered to relinquish that victory and withdraw the demand.  To the contrary, while the Government agrees that the agency is unconstitutionally structured, it believes it may nevertheless enforce the demand on remand.  See infra, at 30.  Accordingly, our “decision will have real meaning” for the parties.  INS v. Chadha,

462 U.S. 919, 939 (1983).  And, as in Windsor, any prudential concerns with deciding an important legal question in this posture can be addressed by “the practice of entertaining arguments made by an amicus when the Solicitor General confesses error with respect to a judgment below,” which we have done.  570 U. S., at 760.

															We therefore turn to the merits of petitioner’s constitutional challenge.

															III

															We hold that the CFPB’s leadership by a single individual removable only for inefficiency, neglect, or malfeasance violates the separation of powers.

															A

															Article II provides that “[t]he executive Power shall be vested in a President,” who must “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.”  Art. II, §1, cl. 1; id., §3.  The entire “executive Power” belongs to the President alone.  But because it would be “impossib[le]” for “one man” to “perform all the great business of the State,” the Constitution assumes that lesser executive officers will “assist the supreme Magistrate in discharging the duties of his trust.”  30 Writings of George Washington 334 (J. Fitzpatrick ed. 1939).

															These lesser officers must remain accountable to the President, whose authority they wield.  As Madison explained, “[I]f any power whatsoever is in its nature Executive, it is the power of appointing, overseeing, and controlling those who execute the laws.”  1 Annals of Cong. 463 (1789).  That power, in turn, generally includes the ability to remove executive officials, for it is “only the authority that can remove” such officials that they “must fear and, in the performance of [their] functions, obey.”  Bowsher, 478 U. S., at 726 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															 The President’s removal power has long been confirmed by history and precedent.  It “was discussed extensively in Congress when the first executive departments were created” in 1789.  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 492.  “The view that ‘prevailed, as most consonant to the text of the Constitution’ and ‘to the requisite responsibility and harmony in the Executive Department,’ was that the executive power included a power to oversee executive officers through removal.”  Ibid. (quoting Letter from James Madison to Thomas Jefferson (June 30, 1789), 16 Documentary History of the First Federal Congress 893 (2004)).  The First Congress’s recognition of the President’s removal power in 1789 “provides contemporaneous and weighty evidence of the Constitution’s meaning,” Bowsher, 478 U. S., at 723 (internal quotation marks omitted), and has long been the “settled and well understood construction of the Constitution,” Ex parte Hennen, 13 Pet. 230, 259 (1839).

															The Court recognized the President’s prerogative to remove executive officials in Myers v. United States,

272 U.S. 52.  Chief Justice Taft, writing for the Court, conducted an exhaustive examination of the First Congress’s determination in 1789, the views of the Framers and their contemporaries, historical practice, and our precedents up until that point.  He concluded that Article II “grants to the President” the “general administrative control of those executing the laws, including the power of appointment and removal of executive officers.”  Id., at 163–164 (emphasis added).  Just as the President’s “selection of administrative officers is essential to the execution of the laws by him, so must be his power of removing those for whom he cannot continue to be responsible.”  Id., at 117.  “[T]o hold otherwise,” the Court reasoned, “would make it impossible for the President . . . to take care that the laws be faithfully executed.”  Id., at 164.

															We recently reiterated the President’s general removal power in Free Enterprise Fund.  “Since 1789,” we recapped, “the Constitution has been understood to empower the President to keep these officers accountable—by removing them from office, if necessary.”  561 U. S., at 483.  Although we had previously sustained congressional limits on that power in certain circumstances, we declined to extend those limits to “a new situation not yet encountered by the Court”—an official insulated by two layers of for-cause removal protection.  Id., at 483, 514.  In the face of that novel impediment to the President’s oversight of the Executive Branch, we adhered to the general rule that the President possesses “the authority to remove those who assist him in carrying out his duties.”  Id., at 513–514.

															Free Enterprise Fund left in place two exceptions to the President’s unrestricted removal power.  First, in Humphrey’s Executor, decided less than a decade after Myers, the Court upheld a statute that protected the Commissioners of the FTC from removal except for “inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.”  295 U. S., at 620 (quoting

15 U. S. C. §41).  In reaching that conclusion, the Court stressed that Congress’s ability to impose such removal restrictions “will depend upon the character of the office.”  295 U. S., at 631.

															Because the Court limited its holding “to officers of the kind here under consideration,” id., at 632, the contours of the Humphrey’s Executor exception depend upon the characteristics of the agency before the Court.  Rightly or wrongly, the Court viewed the FTC (as it existed in 1935) as exercising “no part of the executive power.”  Id., at 628. Instead, it was “an administrative body” that performed “specified duties as a legislative or as a judicial aid.”  Ibid.  It acted “as a legislative agency” in “making investigations and reports” to Congress and “as an agency of the judiciary” in making recommendations to courts as a master in chancery.  Ibid.  “To the extent that [the FTC] exercise[d] any executive function[,] as distinguished from executive power in the constitutional sense,” it did so only in the discharge of its “quasi-legislative or quasi-judicial powers.”  Ibid. (emphasis added).[2]

															The Court identified several organizational features that helped explain its characterization of the FTC as non-executive.  Composed of five members—no more than three from the same political party—the Board was designed to be “non-partisan” and to “act with entire impartiality.”  Id., at 624; see id., at 619–620.  The FTC’s duties were “neither political nor executive,” but instead called for “the trained judgment of a body of experts” “informed by experience.”  Id., at 624 (internal quotation marks omitted).  And the Commissioners’ staggered, seven-year terms enabled the agency to accumulate technical expertise and avoid a “complete change” in leadership “at any one time.”  Ibid.

															In short, Humphrey’s Executor permitted Congress to give for-cause removal protections to a multimember body of experts, balanced along partisan lines, that performed legislative and judicial functions and was said not to exercise any executive power.  Consistent with that understanding, the Court later applied “[t]he philosophy of Humphrey’s Executor” to uphold for-cause removal protections for the members of the War Claims Commission—a three-member “adjudicatory body” tasked with resolving claims for compensation arising from World War II.  Wiener v. United States,

357 U.S. 349, 356 (1958).

															While recognizing an exception for multimember bodies with “quasi-judicial” or “quasi-legislative” functions, Humphrey’s Executor reaffirmed the core holding of Myers that the President has “unrestrictable power . . . to remove purely executive officers.”  295 U. S., at 632.  The Court acknowledged that between purely executive officers on the one hand, and officers that closely resembled the FTC Commissioners on the other, there existed “a field of doubt” that the Court left “for future consideration.”  Ibid.

															We have recognized a second exception for inferior officers in two cases, United States v. Perkins and Morrison v. Olson.[3]  In Perkins, we upheld tenure protections for a naval cadet-engineer.  116 U. S., at 485.  And, in Morrison, we upheld a provision granting good-cause tenure protection to an independent counsel appointed to investigate and prosecute particular alleged crimes by high-ranking Government officials.  487 U. S., at 662–663, 696–697.  Backing away from the reliance in Humphrey’s Executor on the concepts of “quasi-legislative” and “quasi-judicial” power, we viewed the ultimate question as whether a removal restriction is of “such a nature that [it] impede[s] the President’s ability to perform his constitutional duty.”  487 U. S., at 691.  Although the independent counsel was a single person and performed “law enforcement functions that typically have been undertaken by officials within the Executive Branch,” we concluded that the removal protections did not unduly interfere with the functioning of the Executive Branch because “the independent counsel [was] an inferior officer under the Appointments Clause, with limited jurisdiction and tenure and lacking policymaking or significant administrative authority.”  Ibid.

															These two exceptions—one for multimember expert agencies that do not wield substantial executive power, and one for inferior officers with limited duties and no policymaking or administrative authority—“represent what up to now have been the outermost constitutional limits of permissible congressional restrictions on the President’s removal power.”  PHH, 881 F. 3d, at 196 (Kavanaugh, J., dissenting) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															B

															Neither Humphrey’s Executor nor Morrison resolves whether the CFPB Director’s insulation from removal is constitutional.  Start with Humphrey’s Executor.  Unlike the New Deal-era FTC upheld there, the CFPB is led by a single Director who cannot be described as a “body of experts” and cannot be considered “non-partisan” in the same sense as a group of officials drawn from both sides of the aisle.  295 U. S., at 624.  Moreover, while the staggered terms of the FTC Commissioners prevented complete turnovers in agency leadership and guaranteed that there would always be some Commissioners who had accrued significant expertise, the CFPB’s single-Director structure and five-year term guarantee abrupt shifts in agency leadership and with it the loss of accumulated expertise.

															In addition, the CFPB Director is hardly a mere legislative or judicial aid.  Instead of making reports and recommendations to Congress, as the 1935 FTC did, the Director possesses the authority to promulgate binding rules fleshing out 19 federal statutes, including a broad prohibition on unfair and deceptive practices in a major segment of the U. S. economy.  And instead of submitting recommended dispositions to an Article III court, the Director may unilaterally issue final decisions awarding legal and equitable relief in administrative adjudications.  Finally, the Director’s enforcement authority includes the power to seek daunting monetary penalties against private parties on behalf of the United States in federal court—a quintessentially executive power not considered in Humphrey’s Executor.[4]

															The logic of Morrison also does not apply.  Everyone agrees the CFPB Director is not an inferior officer, and her duties are far from limited.  Unlike the independent counsel, who lacked policymaking or administrative authority, the Director has the sole responsibility to administer 19 separate consumer-protection statutes that cover everything from credit cards and car payments to mortgages and student loans.  It is true that the independent counsel in Morrison was empowered to initiate criminal investigations and prosecutions, and in that respect wielded core executive power.  But that power, while significant, was trained inward to high-ranking Governmental actors identified by others, and was confined to a specified matter in which the Department of Justice had a potential conflict of interest.  By contrast, the CFPB Director has the authority to bring the coercive power of the state to bear on millions of private citizens and businesses, imposing even billion-dollar penalties through administrative adjudications and civil actions.

															In light of these differences, the constitutionality of the CFPB Director’s insulation from removal cannot be settled by Humphrey’s Executor or Morrison alone.

															C

															The question instead is whether to extend those precedents to the “new situation” before us, namely an independent agency led by a single Director and vested with significant executive power.  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 483.  We decline to do so.  Such an agency has no basis in history and no place in our constitutional structure.

															1

															“Perhaps the most telling indication of [a] severe constitutional problem” with an executive entity “is [a] lack of historical precedent” to support it.  Id., at 505 (internal quotation marks omitted).  An agency with a structure like that of the CFPB is almost wholly unprecedented.

															After years of litigating the agency’s constitutionality, the Courts of Appeals, parties, and amici have identified “only a handful of isolated” incidents in which Congress has provided good-cause tenure to principal officers who wield power alone rather than as members of a board or commission.  Ibid.  “[T]hese few scattered examples”—four to be exact—shed little light.  NLRB v. Noel Canning,

573 U.S. 513, 538 (2014).

															First, the CFPB’s defenders point to the Comptroller of the Currency, who enjoyed removal protection for one year during the Civil War.  That example has rightly been dismissed as an aberration.  It was “adopted without discussion” during the heat of the Civil War and abandoned before it could be “tested by executive or judicial inquiry.”  Myers, 272 U. S., at 165.  (At the time, the Comptroller may also have been an inferior officer, given that he labored “under the general direction of the Secretary of the Treasury.”  Ch. 58,

12Stat.
665.)[5]

															Second, the supporters of the CFPB point to the Office of the Special Counsel (OSC), which has been headed by a single officer since 1978.[6]  But this first enduring single-leader office, created nearly 200 years after the Constitution was ratified, drew a contemporaneous constitutional objection from the Office of Legal Counsel under President Carter and a subsequent veto on constitutional grounds by President Reagan.  See Memorandum Opinion for the General Counsel, Civil Service Commission, 2 Op. OLC 120, 122 (1978); Public Papers of the Presidents, Ronald Reagan, Vol. II, Oct. 26, 1988, pp. 1391–1392 (1991).[7]  In any event, the OSC exercises only limited jurisdiction to enforce certain rules governing Federal Government employers and employees.  See

5 U. S. C. §1212.  It does not bind private parties at all or wield regulatory authority comparable to the CFPB.

															Third, the CFPB’s defenders note that the Social Security Administration (SSA) has been run by a single Administrator since 1994.  That example, too, is comparatively recent and controversial.  President Clinton questioned the constitutionality of the SSA’s new single-Director structure upon signing it into law.  See Public Papers of the Presidents, William J. Clinton, Vol. II, Aug. 15, 1994, pp. 1471–1472 (1995) (inviting a “corrective amendment” from Congress).  In addition, unlike the CFPB, the SSA lacks the authority to bring enforcement actions against private parties.  Its role is largely limited to adjudicating claims for Social Security benefits.

															The only remaining example is the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), created in 2008 to assume responsibility for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  That agency is essentially a companion of the CFPB, established in response to the same financial crisis.  See Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008,

122Stat.
2654.  It regulates primarily Government-sponsored enterprises, not purely private actors.  And its single-Director structure is a source of ongoing controversy.  Indeed, it was recently held unconstitutional by the Fifth Circuit, sitting en banc.  See Collins v. Mnuchin, 938 F.3d 553, 587–588 (2019).

															With the exception of the one-year blip for the Comptroller of the Currency, these isolated examples are modern and contested.  And they do not involve regulatory or enforcement authority remotely comparable to that exercised by the CFPB.  The CFPB’s single-Director structure is an innovation with no foothold in history or tradition.[8]

															2

															In addition to being a historical anomaly, the CFPB’s single-Director configuration is incompatible with our constitutional structure.  Aside from the sole exception of the Presidency, that structure scrupulously avoids concentrating power in the hands of any single individual.

															“The Framers recognized that, in the long term, structural protections against abuse of power were critical to preserving liberty.”  Bowsher, 478 U. S., at 730.  Their solution to governmental power and its perils was simple: divide it.  To prevent the “gradual concentration” of power in the same hands, they enabled “[a]mbition . . . to counteract ambition” at every turn.  The Federalist No. 51, p. 349 (J. Cooke ed. 1961) (J. Madison).  At the highest level, they “split the atom of sovereignty” itself into one Federal Government and the States.  Gamble v. United States, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 9) (internal quotation marks omitted).  They then divided the “powers of the new Federal Government into three defined categories, Legislative, Executive, and Judicial.”  Chadha, 462 U. S., at 951.

															They did not stop there.  Most prominently, the Framers bifurcated the federal legislative power into two Chambers: the House of Representatives and the Senate, each composed of multiple Members and Senators.  Art. I, §§2, 3.

															The Executive Branch is a stark departure from all this division.  The Framers viewed the legislative power as a special threat to individual liberty, so they divided that power to ensure that “differences of opinion” and the “jarrings of parties” would “promote deliberation and circumspection” and “check excesses in the majority.”  See The Federalist No. 70, at 475 (A. Hamilton); see also id., No. 51, at 350.  By contrast, the Framers thought it necessary to secure the authority of the Executive so that he could carry out his unique responsibilities.  See id., No. 70, at 475–478.  As Madison put it, while “the weight of the legislative authority requires that it should be . . . divided, the weakness of the executive may require, on the other hand, that it should be fortified.”  Id., No. 51, at 350.

															The Framers deemed an energetic executive essential to “the protection of the community against foreign attacks,” “the steady administration of the laws,” “the protection of property,” and “the security of liberty.”  Id., No. 70, at 471.  Accordingly, they chose not to bog the Executive down with the “habitual feebleness and dilatoriness” that comes with a “diversity of views and opinions.”  Id., at 476.  Instead, they gave the Executive the “[d]ecision, activity, secrecy, and dispatch” that “characterise the proceedings of one man.”  Id., at 472.

															To justify and check that authority—unique in our constitutional structure—the Framers made the President the most democratic and politically accountable official in Government.  Only the President (along with the Vice President) is elected by the entire Nation.  And the President’s political accountability is enhanced by the solitary nature of the Executive Branch, which provides “a single object for the jealousy and watchfulness of the people.”  Id., at 479.  The President “cannot delegate ultimate responsibility or the active obligation to supervise that goes with it,” because Article II “makes a single President responsible for the actions of the Executive Branch.”  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 496–497 (quoting Clinton v. Jones,

520 U.S. 681, 712–713 (1997) (Breyer, J., concurring in judgment)).

															The resulting constitutional strategy is straightforward: divide power everywhere except for the Presidency, and render the President directly accountable to the people through regular elections.  In that scheme, individual executive officials will still wield significant authority, but that authority remains subject to the ongoing supervision and control of the elected President.  Through the President’s oversight, “the chain of dependence [is] preserved,” so that “the lowest officers, the middle grade, and the highest” all “depend, as they ought, on the President, and the President on the community.”  1 Annals of Cong. 499 (J. Madison).

															The CFPB’s single-Director structure contravenes this carefully calibrated system by vesting significant governmental power in the hands of a single individual accountable to no one.  The Director is neither elected by the people nor meaningfully controlled (through the threat of removal) by someone who is.  The Director does not even depend on Congress for annual appropriations.  See The Federalist No. 58, at 394 (J. Madison) (describing the “power over the purse” as the “most compleat and effectual weapon” in representing the interests of the people).  Yet the Director may unilaterally, without meaningful supervision, issue final regulations, oversee adjudications, set enforcement priorities, initiate prosecutions, and determine what penalties to impose on private parties.  With no colleagues to persuade, and no boss or electorate looking over her shoulder, the Director may dictate and enforce policy for a vital segment of the economy affecting millions of Americans.

															The CFPB Director’s insulation from removal by an accountable President is enough to render the agency’s structure unconstitutional.  But several other features of the CFPB combine to make the Director’s removal protection even more problematic.  In addition to lacking the most direct method of presidential control—removal at will—the agency’s unique structure also forecloses certain indirect methods of Presidential control.

															Because the CFPB is headed by a single Director with a five-year term, some Presidents may not have any opportunity to shape its leadership and thereby influence its activities.  A President elected in 2020 would likely not appoint a CFPB Director until 2023, and a President elected in 2028 may never appoint one.  That means an unlucky President might get elected on a consumer-protection platform and enter office only to find herself saddled with a holdover Director from a competing political party who is dead set against that agenda.  To make matters worse, the agency’s single-Director structure means the President will not have the opportunity to appoint any other leaders—such as a chair or fellow members of a Commission or Board—who can serve as a check on the Director’s authority and help bring the agency in line with the President’s preferred policies.

															The CFPB’s receipt of funds outside the appropriations process further aggravates the agency’s threat to Presidential control.  The President normally has the opportunity to recommend or veto spending bills that affect the operation of administrative agencies.  See Art. I, §7, cl. 2; Art. II, §3.  And, for the past century, the President has annually submitted a proposed budget to Congress for approval.  See Budget and Accounting Act, 1921, ch. 18, §201,

42Stat.
20.  Presidents frequently use these budgetary tools “to influence the policies of independent agencies.”  PHH, 881 F. 3d, at 147 (Henderson, J., dissenting) (citing Pasachoff, The President’s Budget as a Source of Agency Policy Control, 125 Yale L. J. 2182, 2191, 2203–2204 (2016)).  But no similar opportunity exists for the President to influence the CFPB Director.  Instead, the Director receives over $500 million per year to fund the agency’s chosen priorities.  And the Director receives that money from the Federal Reserve, which is itself funded outside of the annual appropriations process.  This financial freedom makes it even more likely that the agency will “slip from the Executive’s control, and thus from that of the people.”  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 499.[9]

															3

															Amicus raises three principal arguments in the agency’s defense.  At the outset, amicus questions the textual basis for the removal power and highlights statements from Madison, Hamilton, and Chief Justice Marshall expressing “heterodox” views on the subject.  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae 4–5, 28–29.  But those concerns are misplaced.  It is true that “there is no ‘removal clause’ in the Constitution,” id., at 1, but neither is there a “separation of powers clause” or a “federalism clause.”  These foundational doctrines are instead evident from the Constitution’s vesting of certain powers in certain bodies.  As we have explained many times before, the President’s removal power stems from Article II’s vesting of the “executive Power” in the President.  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 483 (quoting Art. II, §1, cl. 1).  As for the opinions of Madison, Hamilton, and Chief Justice Marshall, we have already considered the statements cited by amicus and discounted them in light of their context (Madison), the fact they reflect initial impressions later abandoned by the speaker (Hamilton), or their subsequent rejection as ill-considered dicta (Chief Justice Marshall).  See Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 500, n. 6 (Madison); Myers, 272 U. S., at 136–139, 142–144 (Hamilton and Chief Justice Marshall).[10]

															Next, amicus offers a grand theory of our removal precedents that, if accepted, could leave room for an agency like the CFPB—and many other innovative intrusions on Article II.  According to amicus, Humphrey’s Executor and Morrison establish a general rule that Congress may impose “modest” restrictions on the President’s removal power, with only two limited exceptions.  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae 33–37.  Congress may not reserve a role for itself in individual removal decisions (as it attempted to do in Myers and Bowsher).  And it may not eliminate the President’s removal power altogether (as it effectively did in Free Enterprise Fund).  Outside those two situations, amicus argues, Congress is generally free to constrain the President’s removal power.  See also post, at 16–22 (Kagan, J., concurring in judgment with respect to severability and dissenting in part) (hereinafter dissent) (expressing similar view).

															But text, first principles, the First Congress’s decision in 1789, Myers, and Free Enterprise Fund all establish that the President’s removal power is the rule, not the exception.  While we do not revisit Humphrey’s Executor or any other precedent today, we decline to elevate it into a freestanding invitation for Congress to impose additional restrictions on the President’s removal authority.[11]

															Finally, amicus contends that if we identify a constitutional problem with the CFPB’s structure, we should avoid it by broadly construing the statutory grounds for removing the CFPB Director from office.  See Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae 50–53; Tr. of Oral Arg. 57–62.  The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the Director may be removed for “inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.”

12 U. S. C. §5491(c)(3).  In amicus’ view, that language could be interpreted to reserve substantial discretion to the President.  Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae 51.

															We are not persuaded.  For one, Humphrey’s Executor implicitly rejected an interpretation that would leave the President free to remove an officer based on disagreements about agency policy.  See 295 U. S., at 619, 625–626.  In addition, while both amicus and the House of Representatives invite us to adopt whatever construction would cure the constitutional problem, they have not advanced any workable standard derived from the statutory language.  Amicus suggests that the proper standard might permit removals based on general policy disagreements, but not specific ones; the House suggests that the permissible bases for removal might vary depending on the context and the Presidential power involved.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 58–60, 76–77.  They do not attempt to root either of those standards in the statutory text.  Further, although nearly identical language governs the removal of some two-dozen multimember independent agencies, amicus suggests that the standard should vary from agency to agency, morphing as necessary to avoid constitutional doubt.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 55–56.  We decline to embrace such an uncertain and elastic approach to the text.

															Amicus and the House also fail to engage with the Dodd-Frank Act as a whole, which makes plain that the CFPB is an “independent bureau.”

12 U. S. C. §5491(a); see also

44 U. S. C. §3502(5) (listing the CFPB as an “independent regulatory agency”).  Neither amicus nor the House explains how the CFPB would be “independent” if its head were required to implement the President’s policies upon pain of removal.  See Black’s Law Dictionary 838 (9th ed. 2009) (defining “independent” as “[n]ot subject to the control or influence of another”).  The Constitution might of course compel the agency to be dependent on the President notwithstanding Congress’s contrary intent, but that result cannot fairly be inferred from the statute Congress enacted.

															Constitutional avoidance is not a license to rewrite Congress’s work to say whatever the Constitution needs it to say in a given situation.  Without a proffered interpretation that is rooted in the statutory text and structure, and would avoid the constitutional violation we have identified, we take Congress at its word that it meant to impose a meaningful restriction on the President’s removal authority.

															The dissent, for its part, largely reprises points that the Court has already considered and rejected: It notes the lack of an express removal provision, invokes Congress’s general power to create and define executive offices, highlights isolated statements from individual Framers, downplays the decision of 1789, minimizes Myers, brainstorms methods of Presidential control short of removal, touts the need for creative congressional responses to technological and economic change, and celebrates a pragmatic, flexible approach to American governance.  See post, at 1–25, 32–33, 38.

															If these arguments sound familiar, it’s because they are.  They were raised by the dissent in Free Enterprise Fund. Compare post, at 1–25, 32–33, 38, with Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 515–524, 530  (Breyer, J., dissenting).  The answers to these repeated concerns (beyond those we have already covered) are the same today as they were ten years ago.  Today, as then, Congress’s “plenary control over the salary, duties, and even existence of executive offices” makes “Presidential oversight” more critical—not less—as the “[o]nly” tool to “counter [Congress’s] influence.”  Id., at 500 (opinion of the Court).  Today, as then, the various “bureaucratic minutiae” a President might use to corral agency personnel is no substitute for at will removal.  Ibid.  And today, as always, the urge to meet new technological and societal problems with novel governmental structures must be tempered by constitutional restraints that are not known—and were not chosen—for their efficiency or flexibility.  Id., at 499.

															As we explained in Free Enterprise Fund, “One can have a government that functions without being ruled by functionaries, and a government that benefits from expertise without being ruled by experts.”  Ibid.  While “[n]o one doubts Congress’s power to create a vast and varied federal bureaucracy,” the expansion of that bureaucracy into new territories the Framers could scarcely have imagined only sharpens our duty to ensure that the Executive Branch is overseen by a President accountable to the people.  Ibid.

															IV

															Having concluded that the CFPB’s leadership by a single independent Director violates the separation of powers, we now turn to the appropriate remedy.  We directed the parties to brief and argue whether the Director’s removal protection was severable from the other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that establish the CFPB.  If so, then the CFPB may continue to exist and operate notwithstanding Congress’s unconstitutional attempt to insulate the agency’s Director from removal by the President.  There is a live controversy between the parties on that question, and resolving it is a necessary step in determining petitioner’s entitlement to its requested relief.

															As the defendant in this action, petitioner seeks a straightforward remedy.  It asks us to deny the Government’s petition to enforce the civil investigative demand and dismiss the case.  The Government counters that the demand, though initially issued by a Director unconstitutionally insulated from removal, can still be enforced on remand because it has since been ratified by an Acting Director accountable to the President.  The parties dispute whether this alleged ratification in fact occurred and whether, if so, it is legally sufficient to cure the constitutional defect in the original demand.  That debate turns on case-specific factual and legal questions not addressed below and not briefed here.  A remand for the lower Courts to consider those questions in the first instance is therefore the appropriate course—unless such a remand would be futile.

															In petitioner’s view, it would be.  Before the Court of Appeals, petitioner contended that, regardless of any ratification, the demand is unenforceable because the statutory provision insulating the CFPB Director from removal cannot be severed from the other statutory provisions that define the CFPB’s authority.  See Brief for Appellant in No. 17–56324 (CA9), pp. 27–28, 30–32.  If petitioner is correct, and the offending removal provision means the entire agency is unconstitutional and powerless to act, then a remand would be pointless.  With no agency left with statutory authority to maintain this suit or otherwise enforce the demand, the appropriate disposition would be to reverse with instructions to deny the Government’s petition to enforce the agency’s demand for documents and dismiss the case, as petitioner requests.

															Accordingly, there is a live controversy over the question of severability.  And that controversy is essential to our ability to provide petitioner the relief it seeks: If the removal restriction is not severable, then we must grant the relief requested, promptly rejecting the demand outright.  If, on the other hand, the removal restriction is severable, we must instead remand for the Government to press its ratification arguments in further proceedings.  Unlike the lingering ratification issue, severability presents a pure question of law that has been fully briefed and argued by the parties.  We therefore proceed to address it.[12]

															It has long been settled that “one section of a statute may be repugnant to the Constitution without rendering the whole act void.”  Loeb v. Columbia Township Trustees,

179 U.S. 472, 490 (1900) (quoting Treasurer of Fayette Cty. v. People’s & Drovers’ Bank, 47 Ohio St. 503, 523, 25 N.E. 697, 702 (1890)).  Because a “statute bad in part is not necessarily void in its entirety,” “[p]rovisions within the legislative power may stand if separable from the bad.”  Dorchy v. Kansas,

264 U.S. 286, 289–290 (1924).

															“Generally speaking, when confronting a constitutional flaw in a statute, we try to limit the solution to the problem, severing any problematic portions while leaving the remainder intact.”  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 508 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Even in the absence of a severability clause, the “traditional” rule is that “the unconstitutional provision must be severed unless the statute created in its absence is legislation that Congress would not have enacted.”  Alaska Airlines, Inc. v. Brock,

480 U.S. 678, 685 (1987).  When Congress has expressly provided a severability clause, our task is simplified.  We will presume “that Congress did not intend the validity of the statute in question to depend on the validity of the constitutionally offensive provision . . . unless there is strong evidence that Congress intended otherwise.”  Id., at 686.

															The only constitutional defect we have identified in the CFPB’s structure is the Director’s insulation from removal.  If the Director were removable at will by the President, the constitutional violation would disappear.  We must therefore decide whether the removal provision can be severed from the other statutory provisions relating to the CFPB’s powers and responsibilities.

															In Free Enterprise Fund, we found a set of unconstitutional removal provisions severable even in the absence of an express severability clause because the surviving provisions were capable of “functioning independently” and “nothing in the statute’s text or historical context [made] it evident that Congress, faced with the limitations imposed by the Constitution, would have preferred no Board at all to a Board whose members are removable at will.”  561 U. S., at 509 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															So too here.  The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act bearing on the CFPB’s structure and duties remain fully operative without the offending tenure restriction.  Those provisions are capable of functioning independently, and there is nothing in the text or history of the Dodd-Frank Act that demonstrates Congress would have preferred no CFPB to a CFPB supervised by the President.  Quite the opposite.  Unlike the Sarbanes-Oxley Act at issue in Free Enterprise Fund, the Dodd-Frank Act contains an express severability clause.  There is no need to wonder what Congress would have wanted if “any provision of this Act” is “held to be unconstitutional” because it has told us: “the remainder of this Act” should “not be affected.”

12 U. S. C. §5302.

															Petitioner urges us to disregard this plain language for three reasons.  None is persuasive.  First, petitioner dismisses the clause as non-probative “boilerplate” because it applies “to the entire, 848-page Dodd-Frank Act” and “appears almost 600 pages before the removal provision at issue.”  Brief for Petitioner 45.  In petitioner’s view, that means we cannot be certain that Congress really meant to apply the clause to each of the Act’s provisions.  But boilerplate is boilerplate for a reason—because it offers tried-and-true language to ensure a precise and predictable result.  That is the case here.  The language unmistakably references “any provision of this Act.”

12 U. S. C. §5302 (emphasis added).  And it appears in a logical and prominent place, immediately following the Act’s title and definitions sections, reinforcing the conclusion that it applies to the entirety of the Act.  Congress was not required to laboriously insert duplicative severability clauses, provision by provision, to accomplish its stated objective.

															Second, petitioner points to an additional severability clause in the Act that applies only to one of the Act’s subtitles.  See

15 U. S. C. §8232.  In petitioner’s view, that clause would be superfluous if Congress meant the general severability clause to apply across the Act.  But “our preference for avoiding surplusage constructions is not absolute.”  Lamie v. United States Trustee,

540 U.S. 526, 536 (2004).  In this instance, the redundant language appears to reflect the fact that the subtitle to which it refers originated as a standalone bill that was later incorporated into Dodd-Frank.  Compare

15 U. S. C. §8232 with H. R. 2571, 111th Cong., 1st Sess., §302 (2009).  And petitioner does not offer any construction that would give effect to both provisions, making the redundancy both inescapable and unilluminating. See Microsoft Corp. v. i4i L. P.,

564 U.S. 91, 106 (2011) (“The canon against superfluity assists only where a competing interpretation gives effect to every clause and word of a statute.” (internal quotation marks omitted)).

															Finally, petitioner argues more broadly that Congress would not have wanted to give the President unbridled control over the CFPB’s vast authority.  Petitioner highlights the references to the CFPB’s independence in the statutory text and legislative history, as well as in Professor Warren’s and the Obama administration’s original proposals.  See Brief for Petitioner 43–44 (collecting examples).  And petitioner submits that Congress might not have exempted the CFPB from congressional oversight via the appropriations process if it had known that the CFPB would come under executive control.

															These observations certainly confirm that Congress preferred an independent CFPB to a dependent one; but they shed little light on the critical question whether Congress would have preferred a dependent CFPB to no agency at all.  That is the only question we have the authority to decide, and the answer seems clear.  Petitioner assumes that, if we eliminate the CFPB, regulatory and enforcement authority over the statutes it administers would simply revert back to the handful of independent agencies previously responsible for them.  See id., at 46.  But, as the Solicitor General and House of Representatives explain, that shift would trigger a major regulatory disruption and would leave appreciable damage to Congress’s work in the consumer-finance arena.  See Reply Brief for Respondent 21–22; Tr. of Oral Arg. 67–68.  One of the agencies whose regulatory authority was transferred to the CFPB no longer exists.  See 12 U. S. C. §§5412–5413 (Office of Thrift Supervision).  The others do not have the staff or appropriations to absorb the CFPB’s 1,500-employee, 500-million-dollar operations.  And none has the authority to administer the Dodd-Frank Act’s new prohibition on unfair and deceptive practices in the consumer-finance sector.  Given these consequences, it is far from evident that Congress would have preferred no CFPB to a CFPB led by a Director removable at will by the President.

															Justice Thomas would have us junk our settled severability doctrine and start afresh, even though no party has asked us to do so.  See post, at 15–16, 21–24 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).  Among other things, he objects that it is sheer “speculation” that Congress would prefer that its consumer protection laws be enforced by a Director accountable to the President rather than not at all.  Post, at 23–24. We think it clear that Congress would prefer that we use a scalpel rather than a bulldozer in curing the constitutional defect we identify today.  And such an approach by this Court can come as no surprise to Congress, which was on notice of constitutional objections to single-Director agencies by multiple past Presidents from both political parties, supra, at 19–20, and enacted Dodd-Frank against the background of our established severability doctrine.

															As in every severability case, there may be means of remedying the defect in the CFPB’s structure that the Court lacks the authority to provide.  Our severability analysis does not foreclose Congress from pursuing alternative responses to the problem—for example, converting the CFPB into a multimember agency.  The Court’s only instrument, however, is a blunt one.  We have “the negative power to disregard an unconstitutional enactment,” Massachusetts v. Mellon,

262 U.S. 447, 488 (1923); see Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 178 (1803), but we cannot re-write Congress’s work by creating offices, terms, and the like.  “[S]uch editorial freedom . . . belongs to the Legislature, not the Judiciary.”  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 510.

															Because we find the Director’s removal protection severable from the other provisions of Dodd-Frank that establish the CFPB, we remand for the Court of Appeals to consider whether the civil investigative demand was validly ratified.

															*  *  *

															A decade ago, we declined to extend Congress’s authority to limit the President’s removal power to a new situation, never before confronted by the Court.  We do the same today.  In our constitutional system, the executive power belongs to the President, and that power generally includes the ability to supervise and remove the agents who wield executive power in his stead.  While we have previously upheld limits on the President’s removal authority in certain contexts, we decline to do so when it comes to principal officers who, acting alone, wield significant executive power.  The Constitution requires that such officials remain dependent on the President, who in turn is accountable to the people.

															The judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is vacated, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

															

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
 Director Kraninger did not indicate whether she would disregard her statutory removal protection if the President attempted to remove her without cause. 

2
 The Court’s conclusion that the FTC did not exercise executive power has not withstood the test of time.  As we observed in Morrison v. Olson,

487 U.S. 654 (1988), “[I]t is hard to dispute that the powers of the FTC at the time of Humphrey’s Executor would at the present time be considered ‘executive,’ at least to some degree.”  Id., at 690, n. 28.  See also Arlington v. FCC,

569 U.S. 290, 305, n. 4 (2013) (even though the activities of administrative agencies “take ‘legislative’ and ‘judicial’ forms,” “they are exercises of—indeed, under our constitutional structure they must be exercises of—the ‘executive Power’ ” (quoting Art. II, §1, cl. 1)). 

3
 Article II distinguishes between two kinds of officers—principal officers (who must be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate) and inferior officers (whose appointment Congress may vest in the President, courts, or heads of Departments).  §2, cl. 2.  While “[o]ur cases have not set forth an exclusive criterion for distinguishing between principal and inferior officers,” we have in the past examined factors such as the nature, scope, and duration of an officer’s duties.  Edmond v. United States,

520 U.S. 651, 661 (1997).  More recently, we have focused on whether the officer’s work is “directed and supervised” by a principal officer.  Id., at 663. 

4
 The dissent would have us ignore the reasoning of Humphrey’s Executor and instead apply the decision only as part of a reimagined Humphrey’s-through-Morrison framework.  See post, at 18, n. 7, 19–22 (Kagan, J., concurring in judgment with respect to severability and dissenting in part) (hereinafter dissent).  But we take the decision on its own terms, not through gloss added by a later Court in dicta.  The dissent also criticizes us for suggesting that the 1935 FTC may have had lesser responsibilities than the present FTC.  See post, at 27, n. 10.  Perhaps the FTC possessed broader rulemaking, enforcement, and adjudicatory powers than the Humphrey’s Court appreciated.  Perhaps not.  Either way, what matters is the set of powers the Court considered as the basis for its decision, not any latent powers that the agency may have had not alluded to by the Court. 

5
 The dissent suggests that the Comptroller still enjoyed some degree of insulation after his removal protection was repealed because the President faced a new requirement to “communicate[ ]” his “reasons” for terminating the Comptroller to the Senate.  Post, at 15 (quoting Act of June 3, 1864, ch. 106, §1,

13Stat.
100).  But the President could still remove the Comptroller for any reason so long as the President was, in the dissent’s phrase, “in a firing mood.”  Post, at 15. 

6
 The OSC should not be confused with the independent counsel in Morrison or the special counsel recently appointed to investigate allegations related to the 2016 Presidential election.  Despite sharing similar titles, those individuals have no relationship to the OSC. 

7
 An Act similar to the one vetoed by President Reagan was eventually signed by President George H. W. Bush after extensive negotiations and compromises with Congress.  See Public Papers of the Presidents, George H. W. Bush, Vol. I, Apr. 10, 1989, p. 391 (1990). 

8
 The dissent categorizes the CFPB as one of many “financial regulators” that have historically enjoyed some insulation from the President.  See post, at 11–16.  But even assuming financial institutions like the Second Bank and the Federal Reserve can claim a special historical status, the CFPB is in an entirely different league.  It acts as a mini legislature, prosecutor, and court, responsible for creating substantive rules for a wide swath of industries, prosecuting violations, and levying knee-buckling penalties against private citizens.  See supra, at 4–5.  And, of course, it is the only agency of its kind run by a single Director. 

9
 Amicus and the dissent try to diminish the CFPB’s insulation from Presidential control by observing that the CFPB’s final rules can be set aside by a super majority of the Financial Stability and Oversight Council (FSOC).  See Brief for Court-Appointed Amicus Curiae 40; post, at 33, n. 13, 36.  But the FSOC’s veto power is statutorily reserved for extreme situations, when two-thirds of the Council concludes that a CFPB regulation would “put the safety and soundness of the United States banking system or the stability of the financial system of the United States at risk.”  12 U. S. C. §§5513(a), (c)(3).  That narrow escape hatch has no impact on the CFPB’s enforcement or adjudicatory authority and has never been used in the ten years since the agency’s creation.  It certainlydoes not render the CFPB’s independent, single-Director structureconstitutional. 

10
 The dissent likewise points to Madison’s statement in The Federalist No. 39 that the “tenure” of “ministerial offices generally will be a subject of legal regulation.”  Post, at 10 (quoting The Federalist No. 39, p. 253 (J. Cooke ed. 1961)).  But whatever Madison may have meant by that statement, he later led the charge in contending, on the floor of the First Congress, that “inasmuch as the power of removal is of an Executive nature  . . . it is beyond the reach of the Legislative body.”  1 Annals of Cong. 464 (1789); see also id., at 462–464, 495–496.  Like the dissent in Free Enterprise Fund, the dissent goes on to “attribute[ ] to Madison a belief that . . . the Comptroller[ ] could be made independent of the President.  But Madison’s actual proposal, consistent with his view of the Constitution, was that the Comptroller hold office for a term of ‘years, unless sooner removed by the President’; he would thus be ‘dependent upon the President, because he can be removed by him,’ and also ‘dependent upon the Senate, because they must consent to his [reappointment] for every term of years.’ ”  Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Bd.,

561 U.S. 477, 499, 500 n. 6 (2010) (citation omitted) (quoting 1 Annals of Cong. 612).  See post, at 10, n. 4. The dissent further notes that, at the time of the founding, some States placed limitations on their Governors’ removal power.  See post, at 7.  But the Framers hardly viewed State Governors as a reliable guide in fashioning the Federal Executive.  Indeed, they expressly rejected the “executive council” structure favored by most States, fearing that subjecting the President to oversight, as the States had, would “distract and . . . enervate the whole system of administration” and inject it with “habitual feebleness and dilatoriness.”  The Federalist No. 70, at 473, 476 (A. Hamilton). 

11
 Building on amicus’ proposal, the dissent would endorse whatever “the times demand, so long as the President retains the ability to carry out his constitutional functions.”  Post, at 4.  But that amorphous test provides no real limiting principle.  The “clearest” (and only) “example” the dissent can muster for what may be prohibited is a for-cause removal restriction placed on the President’s “close military or diplomatic advisers.”  Post, at 17.  But that carveout makes no logical or constitutional sense.  In the dissent’s view, for-cause removal restrictions are permissible because they guarantee the President “meaningful control” over his subordinates.  Post, at 28 (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted); see also post, at 8, 20, 26, 36.  If that is the theory, then what is the harm in giving the President the same “meaningful control” over his close advisers?  The dissent claims to see a constitutional distinction between the President’s “own constitutional duties in foreign relations and war” and his duty to execute laws passed by Congress.  Post, at 13.  But the same Article that establishes the President’s foreign relations and war duties expressly entrusts him to take care that the laws be faithfully executed.  And, from the perspective of the governed, it is far from clear that the President’s core and traditional powers present greater cause for concern than peripheral and modern ones.  If anything, “[t]he growth of the Executive Branch, which now wields vast power and touches almost every aspect of daily life, heightens the concern that it may slip from the Executive’s control, and thus from that of the people.”  Free Enterprise Fund, 561 U. S., at 499 (emphasis added). 

12
 Justice Thomas believes that any ratification is irrelevant.  In his view, even if the issuance of the demand and initiation of this suit have been validly ratified, Director Kraninger’s activities in litigating the case—after inheriting it from an Acting Director, but before becoming removable at will herself in light of our decision—present a distinct constitutional injury requiring immediate dismissal.  See post, at 17–19 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part).  But whether and when the temporary involvement of an unconstitutionally insulated officer in an otherwise valid prosecution requires dismissal falls outside the questions presented, has not been fully briefed, and is best resolved by the lower courts in the first instance. 


