::SCDB_caseID:: 2019-074
::decision_cite:: 19-715
::decision_name::  Trump v. Mazars USA, LLP
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 19–715 and 19–760

															_________________

															DONALD J. TRUMP, et al., PETITIONERS

															19–715v.

															MAZARS USA, LLP, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit

															

															DONALD J. TRUMP, et al., PETITIONERS

															19–760v.

															DEUTSCHE BANK AG, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[July 9, 2020]

															

															Justice Alito, dissenting.

															Justice Thomas makes a valuable argument about
the constitutionality of congressional subpoenas for a
President’s personal documents. In these cases, however, I
would assume for the sake of argument that such subpoenas are not
categorically barred. Nevertheless, legislative subpoenas for a
President’s personal documents are inherently suspicious.
Such documents are seldom of any special value in considering
potential legislation, and subpoenas for such documents can easily
be used for improper non-legislative purposes. Accordingly, courts
must be very sensitive to separation of powers issues when they are
asked to approve the enforcement of such subpoenas.

															In many cases, disputes about subpoenas for
Presidential documents are fought without judicial involvement. If
Congress attempts to obtain such documents by subpoenaing a
President directly, those two heavyweight institutions can use
their considerable weapons to settle the matter. See ante,
at 10 (opinion of the Court) (“Congress and the President
maintained this tradition of negotiation and
compromise—without the involvement of this Court—until
the present dispute”). But when Congress issues such a
subpoena to a third party, Congress must surely appreciate that the
Judiciary may be pulled into the dispute, and Congress should not
expect that the courts will allow the subpoena to be enforced
without seriously examining its legitimacy.

															Whenever such a subpoena comes before a court,
Congress should be required to make more than a perfunctory showing
that it is seeking the documents for a legitimate legislative
purpose and not for the purpose of exposing supposed Presidential
wrongdoing. See ante, at 12. The House can inquire about
possible Presidential wrongdoing pursuant to its impeachment power,
see ante, at 17–21 (Thomas, J., dissenting), but the
Committees do not defend these subpoenas as ancillary to that
power.

															Instead, they claim that the subpoenas were
issued to gather information that is relevant to legislative
issues, but there is disturbing evidence of an improper law
enforcement purpose. See 940 F.3d 710, 767–771 (CADC 2019)
(Rao, J., dissenting). In addition, the sheer volume of documents
sought calls out for explanation. See 943 F.3d 627, 676–681
(CA2 2019) (Livingston, J., concurring in part and dissenting in
part).

															The Court recognizes that the decisions below
did not give adequate consideration to separation of powers
concerns. Therefore, after setting out a non-exhaustive list of
considerations for the lower courts to take into account,
ante, at 18–20, the Court vacates the judgments of the
Courts of Appeals and sends the cases back for reconsideration. I
agree that the lower courts erred and that these cases must be
remanded, but I do not think that the considerations outlined by
the Court can be properly satisfied unless the House is required to
show more than it has put forward to date.

															Specifically, the House should provide a
description of the type of legislation being considered, and while
great specificity is not necessary, the description should be
sufficient to permit a court to assess whether the particular
records sought are of any special importance. The House should also
spell out its constitutional authority to enact the type of
legislation that it is contemplating, and it should justify the
scope of the subpoenas in relation to the articulated legislative
needs. In addition, it should explain why the subpoenaed
information, as opposed to information available from other
sources, is needed. Unless the House is required to make a showing
along these lines, I would hold that enforcement of the subpoenas
cannot be ordered. Because I find the terms of the Court’s
remand inadequate, I must respectfully dissent.

													
