::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-032
::decision_cite:: 19-968
::decision_name::  Uzuegbunam v. Preczewski
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–968

															_________________

															CHIKE UZUEGBUNAM, et al., PETITIONERS v. STANLEY C. PRECZEWSKI, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[March 8, 2021]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, dissenting.

															Petitioners Chike Uzuegbunam and Joseph Bradford want to challenge the constitutionality of speech restrictions at Georgia Gwinnett College.  There are just a few problems: Uzuegbunam and Bradford are no longer students at the college.  The challenged restrictions no longer exist.  And the petitioners have not alleged actual damages.  The case is therefore moot because a federal court cannot grant Uzuegbunam and Bradford “any effectual relief whatever.”  Chafin v. Chafin,

568 U.S. 165, 172 (2013) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															The Court resists this conclusion, holding that the petitioners can keep pressing their claims because they have asked for “nominal damages.”  In the Court’s view, nominal damages can save a case from mootness because any amount of money—no matter how trivial—“can redress a past injury.”  Ante, at 1.  But an award of nominal damages does not alleviate the harms suffered by a plaintiff, and is not intended to.  If nominal damages can preserve a live controversy, then federal courts will be required to give advisory opinions whenever a plaintiff tacks on a request for a dollar.  Because I would place a higher value on Article III, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															In urging the ratification of the Constitution, Alexander Hamilton famously wrote that “the judiciary, from the nature of its functions, will always be the least dangerous” of “the different departments of power.”  The Federalist No. 78, p. 465 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961).  This was so, Hamilton explained, because the Judiciary “will be least in a capacity to annoy or injure” “the political rights of the Constitution.”  Ibid.  Whereas “[t]he executive not only dispenses the honors but holds the sword of the community,” and “[t]he legislature not only commands the purse but prescribes the rules by which the duties and rights of every citizen are to be regulated,” the Judiciary “may truly be said to have neither FORCE nor WILL but merely judgment.”  Ibid.

															But that power of judgment can nonetheless bind the Executive and Legislature—and the States.  It is modest only if confined to its proper sphere.  As John Marshall emphasized during his one term in the House of Representatives, “[i]f the judicial power extended to every question under the constitution” or “to every question under the laws and treaties of the United States,” then “[t]he division of power [among the branches of Government] could exist no longer, and the other departments would be swallowed up by the judiciary.”  4 Papers of John Marshall 95 (C. Cullen ed. 1984) (quoted in DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno,

547 U.S. 332, 341 (2006)).  To maintain adequate separation between the Judiciary, on the one hand, and the political branches and the States, on the other, Article III of the Constitution authorizes federal courts to decide only “Cases” and “Controversies”—that is, “cases of a Judiciary nature.”   2 Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, p. 430  (M. Farrand ed. 1966) (J. Madison).

															The case-or-controversy requirement imposes fundamental restrictions on who can invoke federal jurisdiction and what types of disputes federal courts can resolve.  As pertinent here, “when it is impossible for a court to grant any effectual relief whatever to the prevailing party,” Chafin, 568 U. S., at 172 (internal quotation marks omitted), the case is moot, and the court has no power to decide it, see Spencer v. Kemna,

523 U.S. 1, 18 (1998).  To decide a moot case would be to give an advisory opinion, in violation of “the oldest and most consistent thread in the federal law of justiciability.”  Flast v. Cohen,

392 U.S. 83, 96 (1968) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															By insisting that judges be able to provide meaningful redress to litigants, Article III ensures that federal courts exercise their authority only “as a necessity in the determination of real, earnest and vital controversy between individuals.”  Chicago & Grand Trunk R. Co. v. Wellman,

143 U.S. 339, 345 (1892); see Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc.,

454 U.S. 464, 471 (1982) (“The constitutional power of federal courts cannot be defined, and indeed has no substance, without reference to the necessity ‘to adjudge the legal rights of litigants in actual controversies.’ ” (quoting Liverpool, New York & Philadelphia S. S. Co. v. Commissioners of Emigration,

113 U.S. 33, 39 (1885))).  When plaintiffs like Uzuegbunam and Bradford allege neither actual damages nor the prospect of future injury, an award of nominal damages does not change their status or condition at all.  Such an award instead represents a judicial determination that the plaintiffs’ interpretation of the law is correct—nothing more.  The court in such a case is acting not as an Article III court, but as a moot court, deciding cases “in the rarified atmosphere of a debating society.”   Director, Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs v. Perini North River Associates,

459 U.S. 297, 305 (1983) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															II

															The Court sees no problem with turning judges into advice columnists.  In its view, the common law and (to a lesser extent) our cases require that federal courts open their doors to any plaintiff who asks for a dollar.  I part ways with the Court regarding both the framework it applies and the result it reaches.

															Begin with the framework.  The Court’s initial premise is that we must “look to the forms of relief awarded at common law” in order to decide “whether nominal damages can redress a past injury.”  Ante, at 4.  Because the Court finds that “nominal damages were available at common law in analogous circumstances” to the ones before us, it “conclude[s] that a request for nominal damages satisfies the redressability element of standing where a plaintiff ’s claim is based on a completed violation of a legal right.”  Ante, at 11.

															Any lessons that we learn from the common law, however, must be tempered by differences in constitutional design.  The structure and function of 18th-century English courts were in many respects irreconcilable with “the role assigned to the judiciary in a tripartite allocation of power.”  Flast, 392 U. S., at 95.  Perhaps most saliently, in England “all jurisdictions of courts [were] either mediately or immediately derived from the crown,” 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 257 (1765), an organizational principle the Framers explicitly rejected by separating the Executive from the Judiciary.  This difference in organization yielded a difference in operation.  To give just one example, “English judicial practice with which early Americans were familiar had long permitted the Crown to solicit advisory opinions from judges.”  R. Fallon, J. Manning, D. Meltzer, & D. Shapiro, Hart and Wechsler’s The Federal Courts and the Federal System 52 (7th ed. 2015).  We would not look to such practice for guidance today if a plaintiff came into court arguing that advisory opinions were in fact an appropriate form of Article III redress.  We would know that they are not.  We likewise should know that a bare request for nominal damages is not justiciable because the plaintiff cannot “benefit in a tangible way from the court’s intervention.”  Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment,

523 U.S. 83, 103, n. 5 (1998) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															We should of course consult founding-era decisions when discerning the boundaries of our jurisdiction, for the Framers sought to limit the judicial power to “Cases” and “Controversies,” as those terms were understood at the time.  See Coleman v. Miller,

307 U.S. 433, 460 (1939) (opinion of Frankfurter, J.).  No question.  But that does not mean that the requirements of Article III are “satisfied merely because a party requests a court of the United States to declare its legal rights, and has couched that request for forms of relief historically associated with courts of law in terms that have a familiar ring to those trained in the legal process.”  Valley Forge, 454 U. S., at 471.  A focus on common law analogues cannot obscure the significance of the establishment of an independent Judiciary—a “remarkable transformation” from a system with courts operating as “appendages of crown power.”  Gordon S. Wood, The Origins of Judicial Review, 22 Suffolk U. L. Rev. 1293, 1304 (1988).  That transformation carries with it the need to cabin the jurisdiction of the Judiciary to ensure it does not trespass on the province of the political branches.

															It is in any event entirely unclear whether common law courts would have awarded nominal damages in a case like the one before us.  There is no dispute that “nominal damages historically could provide prospective relief,” because such awards allowed “plaintiffs at common law to ‘obtain a form of declaratory relief in a legal system with no general declaratory judgment act.’ ”  Ante, at 4 (quoting D. Laycock & R. Hasen, Modern American Remedies 636 (5th ed. 2019); emphasis added); see Borchard, The Declaratory Judgment—A Needed Procedural Reform, 28 Yale L. J. 1, 25–29 (1918) (describing the development of declaratory judgments in England in the second half of the 19th century).  Yet the petitioners in this case no longer seek prospective relief.  Although they initially asked for a declaratory judgment and a preliminary injunction, they abandoned those requests once the college rescinded the challenged policies.

															The Court is correct to note that plaintiffs at common law often received nominal damages for past violations of their rights.  Those awards, however, were generally limited to situations in which prevailing plaintiffs tried and failed to prove actual damages.  See 1 D. Dobbs, Law of Remedies §3.3(2), p. 296 (2d ed. 1993) (describing nominal damages awards as “a rescue operation”).  Notwithstanding the Court’s protestations to the contrary, nominal damages in such cases were in fact a “consolation prize,” ante, at 9, awarded as a hook to allow prevailing plaintiffs to at least recover attorney’s fees and costs.  See W. Hale, Handbook on the Law of Damages 30–31 (1896) (“The importance of the right to recover nominal damages often consists in its effect on costs.”); 1 T. Sedgwick, Measure of Damages §96, p. 164 (9th ed. 1912) (“[T]hey are a mere peg to hang costs on.” (internal quotation marks omitted)).  The petitioners in this case have asked to recover their fees and costs, but they never sought actual damages, so the common law provides little relevant support.

															On this last point, the Court acknowledges in several places that the historical record is mixed as to whether legal violations were actionable at all without a showing of compensable harm.  See ante, at 5, 7.  And the Court does not cite any case in which plaintiffs sought only nominal damages for purely retrospective injuries.  The Court instead relies on several decisions that contained live damages claims, see Barker v. Green, 2 Bing. 317, 130 Eng. Rep. 327 (C. P. 1824) (“actual damage was the gist of the action”); Hatch v. Lewis, 2 F. & F. 467, 469, 175 Eng. Rep. 1145, 1146 (N. P. 1861) (defendants’ ineffective assistance allegedly caused plaintiff to be “deprived of the profits and emoluments he might otherwise have obtained”); Dods v. Evans, 15 C. B. N. S. 621, 143 Eng. Rep. 929 (C. P. 1864) (action for damages), or involved prospective harm to the plaintiff ’s reputation, see Marzetti v. Williams, 1 B. & Ad. 415, 420, 109 Eng. Rep. 842, 844 (K. B. 1830) (bank’s failure to timely pay “was injurious to the character of the plaintiff in his trade”); see also C. Addison, Law of Torts 46–47 (1860) (defamation actionable without proof of damage).

															The Court also appeals to “categorical” and “definitive” statements by Lord Chief Justice Holt and Justice Story, that “every injury imports a damage,” Ashby v. White, 2 Raym. Ld. 938, 955, 92 Eng. Rep. 126, 137 (K. B. 1703), and that “[t]he law tolerates no farther inquiry than whether there has been the violation of a right,” Webb v. Portland Mfg. Co., 29 F. Cas. 506, 508 (No. 17,322) (CC Me. 1838).  Ante, at 8–9.  These statements, however, bear less weight than the Court suggests.  Lord Holt was alone in dissent in Ashby (no shame there), and although his opinion has been cited favorably by subsequent cases and commentary, his colleagues disagreed with him.  The Court writes that “the House of Lords overturned the majority decision, thus validating Lord Holt’s position,” ante, at 6, but the House of Lords likely paid scant attention to Lord Holt’s analysis.  It appears instead that the majority decision was reversed as collateral damage in a Whig-Tory political dispute, and “little weight was given to reasoning or eloquence.”  2 J. Campbell, Lives of the Chief Justices of England 160 (1849).  (Ashby had tried to vote for a Whig candidate, and his ballot had been rejected as part of a Tory election-rigging scheme.  Id., at 156–157.)  Regardless, the House of Lords held that Ashby “should recover his damages assessed by the jury” at trial, suggesting that the fact of injury alone did not “import” them.  Ashby v. White, 1 Bro. P. C. 62, 64, 1 Eng. Rep. 417, 418 (1703).

															Justice Story is no more helpful to the Court—despite the supposedly “definitive” nature of his statement in Webb—as he took the position elsewhere in his writings that a legal violation alone was not sufficient to ground a lawsuit.  See Commentaries on the Law of Agency §236, p. 200 (1839) (“[T]he rule applies, that though it is a wrong, it is without any damage; and, to maintain an action, both must concur; for damnum absque injuria, and injuria absque damno, are equally objections to any recovery.”).  Perhaps Justice Story’s conflicting statements can be reconciled, see ante, at 7; Hessick, Standing, Injury in Fact, and Private Rights, 93 Cornell L. Rev. 275, 283, n. 38 (2008), but neither his commentary nor Lord Holt’s dissent provides firm footing for the position that a plaintiff could seek nominal damages without alleging actual damages or prospective harm.

															At bottom, the Court relies on a handful of indeterminate sources to justify a radical expansion of the judicial power.  The Court acknowledges that “the rule allowing nominal damages for a violation of any legal right . . . was not universally followed,” ante, at 7, but even this concession understates the equivocal nature of the historical record.  I would require more before bursting the bounds of Article III.

															The Court spends little time trying to reconcile its analysis with modern justiciability principles.  It cites in passing our decisions in Carey v. Piphus,

435 U.S. 247 (1978), Memphis Community School Dist. v. Stachura,

477 U.S. 299 (1986), and Farrar v. Hobby,

506 U.S. 103 (1992), but those cases made no mention of Article III, and none involved a standalone claim for nominal damages.  The Court also contends that nominal damages must provide redress because courts would otherwise lack jurisdiction to award them, even where a plaintiff tries and fails to prove actual damages.  See ante, at 10.  But a claim for actual damages preserves a live controversy, see Memphis Light, Gas & Water Div. v. Craft,

436 U.S. 1, 8–9 (1978), and a court does not lose jurisdiction just because that claim ultimately fails.

															Finally, the Court argues that nominal damages provide Article III relief because they “affec[t] the behavior of the defendant towards the plaintiff ” by requiring “money changing hands.”  Ante, at 10 (internal quotation marks omitted).  If this were the standard, then the prospect of attorney’s fees and costs would confer standing at the beginning of a lawsuit and prevent mootness throughout—a proposition we have squarely rejected.  See Lewis v. Continental Bank Corp.,

494 U.S. 472, 480 (1990).  The Court posits that “nominal damages are redress,” whereas fees and costs “are merely a byproduct of a suit that already succeeded.”  Ante, at 11 (internal quotation marks omitted).  This classification just begs the question of what qualifies as redress.  To satisfy Article III, redress must alleviate the plaintiff ’s alleged injury in some way, either by compensating the plaintiff for a past loss or by preventing an ongoing or future harm.  Nominal damages do not serve these ends where a plaintiff alleges only a completed violation of his rights.  They are not intended to approximate the value of tangible or intangible harms, or the deterrent effect required to prevent future misconduct.  And they are not calculated with reference to either of these purposes.  Because such an award performs no remedial function—and because “[r]elief that does not remedy the injury suffered cannot bootstrap a plaintiff into federal court,” Steel Co., 523 U. S., at 107—nominal damages cannot preserve a live controversy where a case is otherwise moot.

															III

															Today’s decision risks a major expansion of the judicial role.  Until now, we have said that federal courts can review the legality of policies and actions only as a necessary incident to resolving real disputes.  Going forward, the Judiciary will be required to perform this function whenever a plaintiff asks for a dollar.  For those who want to know if their rights have been violated, the least dangerous branch will become the least expensive source of legal advice.

															In an effort to downplay these consequences, the Court argues that plaintiffs who seek nominal damages will often be able to seek actual damages as well.  In this case, for example, the Court notes that Uzuegbunam and Bradford “would have satisfied redressability if instead of one dollar in nominal damages they sought one dollar in compensation for a wasted bus fare to travel to the free speech zone.”  Ante, at 11.  Maybe they would have, and maybe they should have.  The Court is mistaken, however, to equate a small amount of actual damages with the token award of nominal damages.  The former redresses a compensable harm and satisfies Article III, while the latter is a legal fiction with “no existence in point of quantity.”  J. Mayne, Law of Damages 27 (1856) (internal quotation marks omitted); see Dobbs, Law of Remedies §3.3(2), at 294 (“Nominal damages are damages in name only . . . .”).

															The Court also insists that not every “request for nominal damages guarantees entry to court.”  Ante, at 11.  Yet its holding admits of no limiting principle.  As then-Judge McConnell remarked in an insightful concurrence on the issue before us, “[i]t is hard to conceive of a case in which a plaintiff would be unable to append a claim for nominal damages, and thus insulate the case from the possibility of mootness.”  Utah Animal Rights Coalition v. Salt Lake City Corp., 371 F.3d 1248, 1266 (CA10 2004).  The Court today reinforces this point by emphasizing that “every violation of a right imports damage,” ante, at 12 (emphasis added; alterations and internal quotation marks omitted)—even though we have definitively and recently held that a plaintiff must allege a concrete injury even where his rights have been violated, see Thole v. U. S. Bank N. A., 590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 5) (“This Court has rejected the argument that ‘a plaintiff automatically satisfies the injury-in-fact requirement whenever a statute grants a person a statutory right and purports to authorize that person to sue to vindicate that right.’ ” (quoting Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins,

578 U.S. 330, 341 (2016))).

															The best that can be said for the Court’s sweeping exception to the case-or-controversy requirement is that it may itself admit of a sweeping exception: Where a plaintiff asks only for a dollar, the defendant should be able to end the case by giving him a dollar, without the court needing to pass on the merits of the plaintiff ’s claims.  Although we recently reserved the question whether a defendant can moot a case by depositing the full amount requested by the plaintiff, Campbell-Ewald Co. v. Gomez,

577 U.S. 153, 166 (2016), our cases have long suggested that he can, see, e.g., California v. San Pablo & Tulare R. Co.,

149 U.S. 308, 313–314 (1893).  The United States agrees, arguing in its brief in “support” of the petitioners that “the defendant should be able to end the litigation without a resolution of the constitutional merits, simply by accepting the entry of judgment for nominal damages against him.”  Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 29.  The defendant can even file an offer of judgment for one dollar, rendering the plaintiff liable for any subsequent costs if he receives only nominal damages.  See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 68(d).  This is a welcome caveat, and it may ultimately save federal courts from issuing reams of advisory opinions.  But it also highlights the flimsiness of the Court’s view of the separation of powers.  The scope of our jurisdiction should not depend on whether the defendant decides to fork over a buck.

															*  *  *

															Five years after Hamilton wrote Federalist No. 78, Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson sent a letter on behalf of President George Washington to Chief Justice John Jay and the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court, asking for advice about the Nation’s rights and obligations regarding the ongoing war in Europe.  Washington’s request must have struck him as reasonable enough, since English sovereigns regularly sought advice from their courts.  Yet the Justices declined the entreaty, citing “the lines of separation drawn by the Constitution between the three departments of the government.”  3 Correspondence and Public Papers of John Jay 488 (H. Johnston ed. 1891).  For over two centuries, the Correspondence of the Justices has stood as a reminder that federal courts cannot give answers simply because someone asks.

															The Judiciary is authorized “to say what the law is” only because “[t]hose who apply [a] rule to particular cases, must of necessity expound and interpret the rule.”  Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 177 (1803) (emphasis added).  Today’s decision abandons that principle.  When a plaintiff brings a nominal damages claim in the absence of past damages or future harm, it is not “necessary to give an opinion upon a question of law.”  San Pablo, 149 U. S., at 314.  It is instead a “gratuitous” exercise of the judicial power, Simon v. Eastern Ky. Welfare Rights Organization,

426 U.S. 26, 38 (1976), and expanding that power encroaches on the political branches and the States.  Perhaps defendants will wise up and moot such claims by paying a dollar, but it is difficult to see that outcome as a victory for Article III. Rather than encourage litigants to fight over farthings, I would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
													
