::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-022
::decision_cite:: 19-930
::decision_name::  CIC Services., LLC v. Internal Revenue Service
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 19–930

															_________________

															CIC SERVICES, LLC, PETITIONER v. INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[May 17, 2021]

															

															Justice Kavanaugh, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full.  I write separately to underscore what remains (and does not remain) of Alexander v. “Americans United” Inc.,

416 U.S. 752 (1974), and Bob Jones Univ. v. Simon,

416 U.S. 725 (1974), in the wake of the Court’s decision today.

															In Americans United and Bob Jones, this Court adopted a straightforward and broad rule for determining whether a pre-enforcement suit is barred by the Anti-Injunction Act.  Under that rule, if a pre-enforcement suit would “necessarily preclude” the assessment or collection of a tax, that suit is barred by the Act and the taxpayer needs to bring a refund suit after paying the tax.  Bob Jones, 416 U. S., at 732; see also Americans United, 416 U. S., at 760–761.  In other words, Americans United and Bob Jones instruct courts to look to the effects of a suit.  And if a pre-enforcement suit would have the effect of preventing the assessment or collection of a tax, then that suit is barred by the Anti-Injunction Act.

															Many courts have taken Americans United and Bob Jones at their word.  And the Sixth Circuit did so here.  In this case, CIC challenged a regulation that was backed by tax penalties—more specifically, penalties that the Tax Code labels as “taxes” for purposes of the Anti-Injunction Act.  See

26 U. S. C. §6671(a).  Because invalidating the regulation at issue would “necessarily preclude” the collection of tax penalties (labeled as “taxes” by the Tax Code) stemming from an individual’s violation of that regulation, the Sixth Circuit concluded that CIC’s pre-enforcement suit was barred by the Anti-Injunction Act under Americans United and Bob Jones.  That was a reasonable conclusion to reach, especially given that CIC’s primary argument here is the same basic argument that this Court rejected in both Americans United and Bob Jones.  Compare Brief for Respondent in Alexander v. “Americans United” Inc., O. T. 1973, No. 72–1371, p. 25 (It “is clear that the ‘purpose’ of this law suit” “is not to restrain the assessment or collection of any tax but to challenge the constitutionality of an essentially regulatory Act of Congress”), with Brief for Petitioner 17 (“The purpose of CIC’s suit” “is to avoid the burdens of the reporting requirement—not to avoid or dispute any tax liability”).

															The Court today holds, however, that CIC’s pre-enforcement suit is not barred by the Anti-Injunction Act.  In so holding, the Court in effect carves out a new exception to Americans United and Bob Jones for pre-enforcement suits challenging regulations backed by tax penalties.  I agree with the Court’s decision to narrow Americans United and Bob Jones because the broad “effects” rule articulated in those decisions is hard to square with the text of the Anti-Injunction Act, which bars only a pre-enforcement “suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any tax.”  §7421(a).  Contrary to some sweeping language in Americans United and Bob Jones, the Anti-Injunction Act is best read as directing courts to look at the stated object of a suit rather than the suit’s downstream effects.  See ante, at 7–8.  And for that reason, as the Court explains, the text of the Anti-Injunction Act is best read as distinguishing (i) pre-enforcement suits challenging the regulatory component of a regulatory tax, which remain prohibited because the requested relief necessarily runs against the assessment or collection of a tax, from (ii) pre-enforcement suits challenging a regulation backed by a tax penalty, which may proceed because the requested relief runs against an independent legal obligation.

															In short, as I understand the Court’s opinion today, the rule going forward is that pre-enforcement suits challenging regulatory taxes or traditional revenue-raising taxes are still ordinarily barred by the Anti-Injunction Act.  But pre-enforcement suits challenging regulations backed by tax penalties are ordinarily not barred, even though those suits, if successful, would necessarily preclude the collection or assessment of what the Tax Code refers to as a tax.

															With those observations, I join the Court’s opinion in full.
													
