::SCDB_caseID:: 1822-006
::decision_cite:: 20 U.S. 38 (1822)
::decision_name::  Ex Parte Kearney
::decision_year:: 1822
::opinion_author:: 
::opinion_type:: 
::opinion:: 

U.S. Supreme Court
Ex Parte Kearney, 20 U.S. 7
Wheat. 38 38 (1822)
Ex Parte Kearney
20 U.S. (7 Wheat.) 38
ON APPLICATION FOR
WRIT
OF HABEAS CORPUS
Syllabus

															This Court has authority to issue a habeas corpus where a person
is imprisoned under the warrant or order of any other court of the
United States.

															But this Court has no appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases
confided to it by the laws of the United States, and cannot revise
the judgments of the circuit courts by writ of error in any case
where a party has been convicted of a public offense.

															Hence the Court will not grant a habeas corpus where a party has
been committed for a contempt adjudged by a court of competent
jurisdiction.

															In such a case, this Court will not inquire into the sufficiency
of the cause of commitment.

															The case of Crosby, Lord Mayor of London, 3 Wils. 108,
commented on, and its authority confirmed.

															Mr. Jones moved for a habeas corpus to bring up the body of John
T. Kearney, now in jail, in the custody of the marshal, under a
commitment of the Circuit Court for the District of Columbia for an
alleged contempt. The petition stated that on the trial of an
indictment in that court, the petitioner was examined as a witness,
and refused to answer a certain question which was put to him,
because he conceived it tended materially to implicate him, and to
criminate him as a particeps criminis. The objection was
overruled by the court, and he having persisted in refusing to
answer the question, was committed to jail for the supposed
contempt, and for no other cause.

															Page 20 U. S. 41

															MR. JUSTICE STORY delivered the opinion of the Court, and after
stating the case, proceeded as follows:

															Upon the argument of this motion, two questions have been made:
first, whether this Court has authority to issue a habeas corpus,
where a person is in jail, under the warrant or order of any other
court of the United States; secondly, if it have, whether, upon the
facts stated, a fit case is made out to justify the exercise of
such an authority.

															Page 20 U. S. 42

															As to the first question, it is unnecessary to say more than
that the point has already passed in rem judicatam in this
Court. In the case of Bollman &
Swartwout, 4 Cranch 75, it was expressly decided
upon full argument that this Court possessed such an authority, and
the question has ever since been considered at rest.

															The second point is of much more importance. It is to be
considered that this Court has no appellate jurisdiction confided
to it in criminal cases by the laws of the United States. It cannot
entertain a writ of error to revise the judgment of the circuit
court in any case where a party has been convicted of a public
offense. And undoubtedly the denial of this authority proceeded
upon great principles of public policy and convenience. If every
party had a right to bring before this Court every case in which
judgment had passed against him for a crime or misdemeanor or
felony, the course of justice might be materially delayed and
obstructed, and in some cases totally frustrated. If, then, this
Court cannot directly revise a judgment of the circuit court in a
criminal case, what reason is there to suppose that it was intended
to vest it with the authority to do it indirectly?

															It is also to be observed that there is no question here but
that this commitment was made by a court of competent jurisdiction,
and in the exercise of an unquestionable authority. The only
objection is not that the court acted beyond its jurisdiction, but
that it erred in its judgment of the law applicable to the case.
If, then, we are to give any relief in this case,

															Page 20 U. S. 43

															it is by a revision of the opinion of the court, given in the
course of a criminal trial, and thus asserting a right to control
its proceedings, and take from them the conclusive effect which the
law intended to give them. If this were an application for a habeas
corpus, after judgment on an indictment for an offense within the
jurisdiction of the circuit court, it could hardly be maintained
that this Court could revise such a judgment or the proceedings
which led to it or set it aside and discharge the prisoner. There
is, in principle, no distinction between that case and the present,
for when a court commits a party for a contempt, their adjudication
is a conviction, and their commitment, in consequence is execution,
and so the law was settled upon full deliberation, in the case of
Brass Crosby, Lord Mayor of London, 3 Wilson 188.

															Indeed, in that case the same point was before the court as in
this. It was an application to the court of common pleas for a
habeas corpus to bring up the body of the Lord Mayor, who was
committed for contempt by the House of Commons. The habeas corpus
was granted, and upon the return the causes of contempt for which
the party was committed were set forth. It was argued that the
House of Commons had no authority to commit for a contempt, and if
they had, that they had not used it rightly and properly, and that
the causes assigned were insufficient. But the whole court was of
opinion that the House of Commons had a right to commit for a
contempt, and that the court could not revise its adjudication.
Lord Chief Justice De Grey on

															Page 20 U. S. 44

															that occasion said

															"When the House of Commons adjudged anything to be a contempt,
or a breach of privilege, their adjudication is a conviction, and
their commitment in consequence is execution, and no court can
discharge, on bail, a person that is in execution by the judgment
of any other court. The House of Commons therefore having an
authority to commit, and that commitment being an execution, what
can this Court do? It can do nothing, when a person is in execution
by the judgment of a court having a competent jurisdiction. In such
a case, this Court is not a court of appeal."

															Again,

															"The courts of K.B. or C.B. never discharged any person
committed for a contempt, in not answering in the court of chancery
if the return was for a contempt. If the admiralty commits for a
contempt, or one be taken up on excommunicato capiendo,
this Court never discharges the persons committed."

															Mr. Justice Blackstone

															"All courts, by which I mean to include the two Houses of
Parliament and the courts of Westminster Hall, can have no control
in matters of contempt. The sole adjudication of contempt, and the
punishment thereof, belongs exclusively, and without interfering,
to each respective court. Infinite confusion and disorder would
follow if courts could, by writs of habeas corpus, examine and
determine the contempt of others."

															So that it is most manifest from the whole reasoning of the
court in this case that a writ of habeas corpus was not deemed a
proper remedy, where a party was committed for a contempt by a
court of competent

															Page 20 U. S. 45

															jurisdiction, and that, if granted, the court could not inquire
into the sufficiency of the cause of commitment. If, therefore, we
were to grant the writ in this case, it would be applying it in a
manner not justified by principle or usage, and we should be bound
to remand the party unless we were prepared to abandon the whole
doctrine, so reasonable, just, and convenient, which has hitherto
regulated this important subject. We are entirely satisfied to
administer the law as we find it, and are all of opinion that upon
the facts of this case, the motion ought to be denied.

															The argument of inconvenience has been pressed upon us with
great earnestness. But where the law is clear, this argument can be
of no avail, and it will probably be found that there are also
serious inconveniences on the other side. Wherever power is lodged,
it may be abused. But this forms no solid objection against its
exercise. Confidence must be reposed somewhere, and if there should
be an abuse, it will be a public grievance, for which a remedy may
be applied by the legislature, and is not to be devised by courts
of justice. This argument was also used in the case already cited,
and the answer of the court to it is so satisfactory, that it would
be useless to attempt any further refutation.

															Upon the whole, it is the opinion of the Court that the motion
be overruled.

															Writ denied.

