::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-052
::decision_cite:: 20-157
::decision_name::  Caniglia v. Strom
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–157

															_________________

															EDWARD A. CANIGLIA, PETITIONER v.  ROBERT F. STROM, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit

															[May 17, 2021]

															

															Justice Alito, concurring.

															I join the opinion of the Court but write separately to explain my understanding of the Court’s holding and to highlight some important questions that the Court does not decide.

															1.  The Court holds—and I entirely agree—that there is no special
 
Fourth Amendment rule for a broad category of cases involving “community caretaking.”  As I understand the term, it describes the many police tasks that go beyond criminal law enforcement.  These tasks vary widely, and there is no clear limit on how far they might extend in the future.  The category potentially includes any non-law-enforcement work that a community chooses to assign, and because of the breadth of activities that may be described as community caretaking, we should not assume that the
 
Fourth Amendment’s command of reasonableness applies in the same way to everything that might be viewed as falling into this broad category.

															The Court’s decision in Cady v. Dombrowski,

413 U.S. 433 (1973), did not recognize any such “freestanding”
 
Fourth Amendment category.  See ante, at 2, 4.  The opinion merely used the phrase “community caretaking” in passing.  413 U. S., at 441.

															2.  While there is no overarching “community caretaking” doctrine, it does not follow that all searches and seizures conducted for non-law-enforcement purposes must be analyzed under precisely the same
 
Fourth Amendment rules developed in criminal cases.  Those rules may or may not be appropriate for use in various non-criminal-law-enforcement contexts.  We do not decide that issue today.

															3.  This case falls within one important category of cases that could be viewed as involving community caretaking: conducting a search or seizure for the purpose of preventing a person from committing suicide.  Assuming that petitioner did not voluntarily consent to go with the officers for a psychological assessment,[1] he was seized and thus subjected to a serious deprivation of liberty.  But was this warrantless seizure “reasonable”?  We have addressed the standards required by due process for involuntary commitment to a mental treatment facility, see Addington v. Texas,

441 U.S. 418, 427 (1979); see also O’Connor v. Donaldson,

422 U.S. 563, 574–576 (1975); Foucha v. Louisiana,

504 U.S. 71, 75–77, 83 (1992), but we have not addressed
 
Fourth Amendment restrictions on seizures like the one that we must assume occurred here, i.e., a short-term seizure conducted for the purpose of ascertaining whether a person presents an imminent risk of suicide.  Every State has laws allowing emergency seizures for psychiatric treatment, observation, or stabilization, but these laws vary in many respects, including the categories of persons who may request the emergency action, the reasons that can justify the action, the necessity of a judicial proceeding, and the nature of the proceeding.[2]  Mentioning these laws only in passing, petitioner asked us to render a decision that could call features of these laws into question.  The Court appropriately refrains from doing so.

															4.  This case also implicates another body of law that petitioner glossed over: the so-called “red flag” laws that some States are now enacting.  These laws enable the police to seize guns pursuant to a court order to prevent their use for suicide or the infliction of harm on innocent persons.  See, e.g., Cal. Penal Code Ann. §§18125–18148 (West Cum. Supp. 2021); Fla. Stat. §790.401(4) (Cum. Supp. 2021); Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., ch. 140, §131T (2021).  They typically specify the standard that must be met and the procedures that must be followed before firearms may be seized.  Provisions of red flag laws may be challenged under the
 
Fourth Amendment, and those cases may come before us.  Our decision today does not address those issues.

															5.  One additional category of cases should be noted: those involving warrantless, nonconsensual searches of a home for the purpose of ascertaining whether a resident is in urgent need of medical attention and cannot summon help.  At oral argument, The Chief Justice posed a question that highlighted this problem.  He imagined a situation in which neighbors of an elderly woman call the police and express concern because the woman had agreed to come over for dinner at 6 p.m., but by 8 p.m., had not appeared or called even though she was never late for anything.  The woman had not been seen leaving her home, and she was not answering the phone.  Nor could the neighbors reach her relatives by phone.  If the police entered the home without a warrant to see if she needed help, would that violate the
 
Fourth Amendment?  Tr. of Oral Arg. 6–8.

															Petitioner’s answer was that it would.  Indeed, he argued, even if 24 hours went by, the police still could not lawfully enter without a warrant.  If the situation remained unchanged for several days, he suggested, the police might be able to enter after obtaining “a warrant for a missing person.”  Id., at 9.

															The Chief Justice’s question concerns an important real-world problem.  Today, more than ever, many people, including many elderly persons, live alone.[3]  Many elderly men and women fall in their homes,[4] or become incapacitated for other reasons, and unfortunately, there are many cases in which such persons cannot call for assistance.  In those cases, the chances for a good recovery may fade with each passing hour.[5]  So in The Chief Justice’s imaginary case, if the elderly woman was seriously hurt or sick and the police heeded petitioner’s suggestion about what the
 
Fourth Amendment demands, there is a fair chance she would not be found alive.  This imaginary woman may have regarded her house as her castle, but it is doubtful that she would have wanted it to be the place where she died alone and in agony.

															Our current precedents do not address situations like this.  We have held that the police may enter a home without a warrant when there are “exigent circumstances.”  Payton v. New York,

445 U.S. 573, 590 (1980).  But circumstances are exigent only when there is not enough time to get a warrant, see Missouri v. McNeely,

569 U.S. 141, 149 (2013); Michigan v. Tyler,

436 U.S. 499, 509 (1978), and warrants are not typically granted for the purpose of checking on a person’s medical condition.  Perhaps States should institute procedures for the issuance of such warrants, but in the meantime, courts may be required to grapple with the basic
 
Fourth Amendment question of reasonableness.

															6.  The three categories of cases discussed above are simply illustrative.  Searches and seizures conducted for other non-law-enforcement purposes may arise and may present their own
 
Fourth Amendment issues.  Today’s decision does not settle those questions.

															*  *  *

															In sum, the Court properly rejects the broad “community caretaking” theory on which the decision below was based.  The Court’s decision goes no further, and on that understanding, I join the opinion in full.
Notes
1
 The Court of Appeals assumed petitioner’s consent was not voluntary because the police allegedly promised that they would not seize his guns if he went for a psychological evaluation.  953 F.3d 112, 121 (CA1 2020).  The Court does not decide whether this assumption was justified. 

2
 See Brief for Petitioner 38–39, n. 4 (gathering state authorities); L. Hedman et al., State Laws on Emergency Holds for Mental Health Stabilization,  67 Psychiatric Servs. 579 (2016). 

3
 Dept. of Commerce, Bureau of Census, The Rise of Living Alone,Fig. HH–4 (2020), https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/library /visualizations /time-series /demo /families-and-households /hh-4.pdf; Ortiz-Ospina, The Rise of Living Alone (Dec. 10, 2019), https://ourworldindata.org/living-alone; Smith, Cities With the Most Adults Living Alone (May 4, 2020), https://www.self.inc/blog/adults-living-alone. 

4
 See B. Moreland, R. Kakara, & A. Henry, Trends in Nonfatal Falls and Fall-Related Injuries Among Adults Aged ≥65 Years—United States, 2012–2018, 69 Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Rep. 875 (2020). 

5
 See, e.g., J. Gurley, N. Lum, M. Sande, B. Lo, & M. Katz, Persons Found in Their Homes Helpless or Dead, 334 New Eng. J. Med. 1710 (1996). 


