::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-017
::decision_cite:: 20-1029
::decision_name::  City of Austin v. Reagan National Advertising of Austin, LLC
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–1029

															_________________

															City of Austin, Texas, PETITIONER v. Reagan National Advertising  of Austin, LLC, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[April 21, 2022]

															

															Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.

															Like thousands of jurisdictions around the country, the City of Austin, Texas (City), regulates signs that advertise things that are not located on the same premises as the sign, as well as signs that direct people to offsite locations.  These are known as off-premises signs, and they include, most notably, billboards.  The question presented is whether, under this Court’s precedents interpreting the Free Speech Clause of the
 
First Amendment, the City’s regulation is subject to strict scrutiny.  We hold that it is not.

															I

															A

															American jurisdictions have regulated outdoor advertisements for well over a century.  See C. Taylor &  W. Chang, The History of Outdoor Advertising Regulation in the United States, 15 J. of Macromarketing 47, 48 (Spring 1995).  By some accounts, the proliferation of conspicuous patent-medicine advertisements on rocks and barns prompted States to begin regulating outdoor advertising in the late 1860s.  Ibid.; F. Presbrey, The History and Development of Advertising 500–501 (1929).  As part of this regulatory tradition, federal, state, and local governments have long distinguished between signs (such as billboards) that promote ideas, products, or services located elsewhere and those that promote or identify things located onsite.  For example, this Court in 1932 reviewed and approved of a Utah statute that prohibited signs advertising cigarettes and related products, but allowed businesses selling such products to post onsite signs identifying themselves as dealers.  Packer Corp. v. Utah,

285 U.S. 105, 107, 110.

															On-/off-premises distinctions, like the one at issue here, proliferated following the enactment of the Highway Beautification Act of 1965 (Act),

23 U. S. C. §131.  In the Act, Congress directed States receiving federal highway funding to regulate outdoor signs in proximity to federal highways, in part by limiting off-premises signs.  See §§131(b)–(c) (allowing exceptions for “signs, displays, and devices advertising the sale or lease of property upon which they are located” and “signs, displays, and devices . . . advertising activities conducted on the property on which they are located”).  Under the Act, approximately two-thirds of States have implemented similar on-/off-premises distinctions.  See App. A to Reply to Brief in Opposition (collecting statutes); Brief for State of Florida et al. as Amici Curiae 7, n. 3 (same).  The City represents, and respondents have not disputed, that “tens of thousands of municipalities nationwide” have adopted analogous on-/off-premises distinctions in their sign codes.  Brief for Petitioner 19; see also App. B to Reply to Brief in Opposition (collecting examples of ordinances); Brief for State of Florida et al. as Amici Curiae 8, n. 4 (same).

															The City of Austin is one such municipality.  The City distinguishes between on-premises and off-premises signs in its sign code, and specially regulates the latter, in order to “protect the aesthetic value of the city and to protect public safety.”  App. 39.

															During the time period relevant to this dispute, the City’s sign code defined the term “off-premise sign” to mean “a sign advertising a business, person, activity, goods, products, or services not located on the site where the sign is installed, or that directs persons to any location not on that site.”  Austin, Tex., City Code §25–10–3(11) (2016).  This definition was materially analogous to the one used in the federal Highway Beautification Act and many other state and local codes referenced above.  The code prohibited the construction of any new off-premises signs, §25–10–102(1), but allowed existing off-premises signs to remain as grandfathered “non-conforming signs,” §25–10–3(10).  An owner of a grandfathered off-premises sign could “continue or maintain [it] at its existing location” and could change the “face of the sign,” but could not “increase the degree of the existing nonconformity,” “change the method or technology used to convey a message,” or “increase the illumination of the sign.”  §§25–10–152(A)–(B).  By contrast, the code permitted the digitization of on-premises signs.  §25–10–102(6) (permitting “electronically controlled changeable-copy sign[s]”).[1]

															B

															Respondents, Reagan National Advertising of Austin, LLC (Reagan), and Lamar Advantage Outdoor Company, L. P. (Lamar), are outdoor-advertising companies that own billboards in Austin.  In April and June of 2017, Reagan sought permits from the City to digitize some of its off-premises billboards.  The City denied the applications.  Reagan filed suit against the City in state court alleging that the code’s prohibition against digitizing off-premises signs, but not on-premises signs, violated the Free Speech Clause of the
 
First Amendment.  The City removed the case to federal court, and Lamar intervened as a plaintiff.[2] 

															After the parties stipulated to the pertinent facts, the District Court held a bench trial and entered judgment in favor of the City.  377 F. Supp. 3d 670, 673, 683 (WD Tex. 2019).  As relevant, the court held that the challenged sign code provisions were content neutral under Reed v. Town of Gilbert,

576 U.S. 155 (2015).  The court explained that “the on/off premises distinction [did] not impose greater restrictions for political messages, religious messages, or any other subject matter,” and “d[id] not require a viewer to evaluate the topic, idea, or viewpoint on the sign”; instead, it required the viewer only “to determine whether the subject matter is located on the same property as the sign.”  377 F. Supp. 3d, at 681.  The court therefore held that the distinction was a facially content-neutral “regulation based on location.”  Ibid.  The court further found “no evidence in the record” that the City had applied the sign code provisions “differently for different messages or speakers” or that its stated concern for esthetics and safety was “pretext for any other purpose.”  Id., at 681–682.  Accordingly, the court reviewed the City’s on-/off-premises distinction under the standard of intermediate scrutiny applicable to content-neutral regulations of speech.  Id., at 682.  The court found that the distinction satisfied this standard.  Id., at 682–683.

															The Court of Appeals reversed.  972 F.3d 696, 699 (CA5 2020).  The court opined that because the City’s on-/off-premises distinction required a reader to inquire “who is the speaker and what is the speaker saying,” “both hallmarks of a content-based inquiry,” the distinction was  content based.  Id., at 706.  It reasoned that “[t]he fact that a government official ha[s] to read a sign’s message to determine the sign’s purpose [i]s enough to” render a regulation content based and “subject [it] to strict scrutiny.”  Ibid. (citing Thomas v. Bright, 937 F.3d 721, 730–731 (CA6 2019)); see also 972 F. 3d, at 704 (“To determine whether a sign is on-premises or off-premises, one must read the sign . . . ”).  The court acknowledged that its interpretation of Reed was “broad,” but reasoned that the consequences were “not . . . unforeseen,” given the concerns raised by Justices who did not join the opinion of the Court.  972 F. 3d, at 707.

															Because the Court of Appeals determined that the City’s on-/off-premises distinction imposed a content-based restriction on speech, it reviewed that distinction under the onerous standard of strict scrutiny.  Recognizing that strict scrutiny “is, understandably, a hard standard to meet” and that it “leads to almost certain legal condemnation,” id., at 709, the court held that the City’s justifications for the distinction could not meet that standard, rendering it unconstitutional, id., at 709–710.[3]

															This Court granted certiorari.  594 U. S. ___ (2021).

															II

															A regulation of speech is facially content based under the
 
First Amendment if it “target[s] speech based on its communicative content”—that is, if it “applies to particular speech because of the topic discussed or the idea or message expressed.”  Reed, 576 U. S., at 163.  The Court of Appeals interpreted Reed to mean that if “[a] reader must ask: who is the speaker and what is the speaker saying” to apply a regulation, then the regulation is automatically content based.  972 F. 3d, at 706.  This rule, which holds that a regulation cannot be content neutral if it requires reading the sign at issue, is too extreme an interpretation of this Court’s precedent.  Unlike the regulations at issue in Reed, the City’s off-premises distinction requires an examination of speech only in service of drawing neutral, location-based lines.  It is agnostic as to content.  Thus, absent a content-based purpose or justification, the City’s distinction is content neutral and does not warrant the application of strict scrutiny.

															A

															The Reed Court confronted a very different regulatory scheme than the one at issue here: a comprehensive sign code that “single[d] out specific subject matter for differential treatment.”  576 U. S., at 169.  The town of Gilbert, Arizona, had adopted a code that applied distinct size, placement, and time restrictions to 23 different categories of signs.  Id., at 159.  The Court focused its analysis on three categories defined by whether the signs displayed ideological, political, or certain temporary directional messages.  The code gave the most favorable treatment to “ ‘Ideological Sign[s],’ ” defined as those “ ‘communicating a message or ideas for noncommercial purposes’ ” with certain exceptions.  Id., at 159–160 (alteration in original).  It offered less favorable treatment to “ ‘Political Sign[s],’ ” defined as those “ ‘designed to influence the outcome of an election.’ ”  Id., at 160 (alteration in original).  Most restricted of all were “ ‘Temporary Directional Signs Relating to a Qualifying Event,’ ” with qualifying events defined as gatherings “ ‘sponsored, arranged, or promoted by a religious, charitable, community service, educational, or other similar non-profit organization.’ ”  Id., at 160–161.

															The Reed Court determined that these restrictions were facially content based.  Id., at 164–165.  Rejecting the contention that the restrictions were content neutral because they did not discriminate on the basis of viewpoint, the Court explained: “[I]t is well established that ‘[t]he
 
First Amendment’s hostility to content-based regulation extends not only to restrictions on particular viewpoints, but also to prohibition of public discussion of an entire topic.’ ”  Id., at 169 (quoting Consolidated Edison Co. of N. Y. v. Public Serv. Comm’n of N. Y.,

447 U.S. 530, 537 (1980)); accord, e.g., Police Dept. of Chicago v. Mosley,

408 U.S. 92, 95 (1972) (explaining that “[t]he central problem” with a municipality’s effort to exempt labor picketing from a prohibition on picketing near public schools was “that it describes permissible picketing in terms of its subject matter”); Carey v. Brown,

447 U.S. 455, 460–461 (1980) (subjecting a similar statute that “accord[ed] preferential treatment to the expression of views on one particular subject” to strict scrutiny).[4]  Applying these principles, the Court reasoned that “a speech regulation targeted at specific subject matter is content based even if it does not discriminate among viewpoints within that subject matter. . . . For example, a law banning the use of sound trucks for political speech—and only political speech—would be a content-based regulation, even if it imposed no limits on the political viewpoints that could be expressed.”  576 U. S., at 169.  By treating ideological messages more favorably than political messages, and both more favorably than temporary directional messages, “[t]he Town’s Sign Code likewise single[d] out specific subject matter for differential treatment, even if it [did] not target viewpoints within that subject matter.”  Ibid.

															In this case, enforcing the City’s challenged sign code provisions requires reading a billboard to determine whether it directs readers to the property on which it stands or to some other, offsite location.  Unlike the sign code at issue in Reed, however, the City’s provisions at issue here do not single out any topic or subject matter for differential treatment.  A sign’s substantive message itself is irrelevant to the application of the provisions; there are no content-discriminatory classifications for political messages, ideological messages, or directional messages concerning specific events, including those sponsored by religious and nonprofit organizations.  Rather, the City’s provisions distinguish based on location: A given sign is treated differently based solely on whether it is located on the same premises as the thing being discussed or not.  The message on the sign matters only to the extent that it informs the sign’s relative location.  The on-/off-premises distinction is therefore similar to ordinary time, place, or manner restrictions.   Reed does not require the application of strict scrutiny to this kind of location-based regulation.  Cf. Frisby v. Schultz,

487 U.S. 474, 482 (1988) (sustaining an ordinance that prohibited “only picketing focused on, and taking place in front of, a particular residence” as content neutral).

															B

															This Court’s
 
First Amendment precedents and doctrines have consistently recognized that restrictions on speech may require some evaluation of the speech and nonetheless remain content neutral.

															Most relevant here, the
 
First Amendment allows for regulations of solicitation—that is, speech “requesting or seeking to obtain something” or “[a]n attempt or effort to gain business.”  Black’s Law Dictionary 1677 (11th ed. 2019).  To identify whether speech entails solicitation, one must read or hear it first.  Even so, the Court has reasoned that restrictions on solicitation are not content based and do not inherently present “the potential for becoming a means of suppressing a particular point of view,” so long as they do not discriminate based on topic, subject matter, or viewpoint.  Heffron v. International Soc. for Krishna Consciousness, Inc.,

452 U.S. 640, 649 (1981).

															Thus, in 1940, the Court invalidated a statute prohibiting solicitation for religious causes but observed that States were “free to regulate the time and manner of solicitation generally, in the interest of public safety, peace, comfort or convenience.”  Cantwell v. Connecticut,

310 U.S. 296, 306–307.  Decades later, the Court reviewed just such a time, place, and manner regulation restricting all solicitation at the Minnesota State Fair, as well as all sale or distribution of merchandise, to a specific location.  Heffron, 452 U. S., at 643–644.  The State had applied the restriction against a religious practice that included “solicit[ing] donations for the support of the Krishna religion.”  Id., at 645.  As a result, members of the religion were free to roam the fairgrounds and discuss their beliefs, but they were prohibited from asking for donations for their cause outside of a designated location.  Id., at 646, 655.  The Court upheld the State’s application of this restriction as content neutral, emphasizing that it “applie[d] evenhandedly to all who wish[ed] . . . to solicit funds,” whether for “commercial or charitable” reasons.  Id., at 649.

															Consistent with these precedents, the Court has previously understood distinctions between on-premises and off-premises signs, like the one at issue in this case, to be  content neutral.  In 1978, the Court summarily dismissed an appeal “for want of a substantial federal question” where a state court had approved of an on-/off-premises distinction as a permissible time, place, and manner restriction under the Free Speech Clause.  Suffolk Outdoor Advertising Co. v. Hulse,

439 U.S. 808 (1978).  Three years later, the Court upheld in relevant part an ordinance that prohibited all off-premises commercial advertising but allowed on-premises commercial advertising.  Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego,

453 U.S. 490, 503–512 (1981) (plurality opinion).[5]  The Metromedia Court did not need to decide whether the off-premises prohibition was content based, as it regulated only commercial speech and so was subject to intermediate scrutiny in any event.  See id., at 507–512 (citing Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm’n of N. Y.,

447 U.S. 557 (1980)).  Shortly thereafter, however, the Court applied the relevant portion of Metromedia and described the off-premises prohibition as “a content-neutral prohibition against the use of billboards.”  Members of City Council of Los Angeles v. Taxpayers for Vincent,

466 U.S. 789, 807 (1984) (emphasis added).

															Underlying these cases and others is a rejection of the view that any examination of speech or expression inherently triggers heightened
 
First Amendment concern.  Rather, it is regulations that discriminate based on “the topic discussed or the idea or message expressed” that are  content based.  Reed, 576 U. S., at 171.  The sign code provisions challenged here do not discriminate on those bases.

															C

															Reagan does not claim Reed expressly or implicitly overturned the precedents discussed above.  Its argument relies primarily on one sentence in Reed recognizing that “[s]ome facial distinctions based on a message are obvious, defining regulated speech by particular subject matter, and others are more subtle, defining regulated speech by its function or purpose.”  Id., at 163.  Seizing on this reference, Reagan asserts that the City’s sign code “defines off- premises signs based on their ‘function or purpose.’ ”  Brief for Respondent Reagan 20 (quoting Reed, 576 U. S., at 163).  It asks the Court to “reaffirm that, where a regulation ‘define[s] regulated speech by its function or purpose,’ it is  content-based on its face and thus subject to strict scrutiny.”  Brief for Respondent Reagan 34 (quoting Reed, 576 U. S., at 163).

															The argument stretches Reed’s “function or purpose” language too far.  The principle the Reed Court articulated is more straightforward.  While overt subject-matter discrimination is facially content based (for example, “ ‘Ideological Sign[s],’ ” defined as those “ ‘communicating a message or ideas for noncommercial purposes’ ”), so, too, are subtler forms of discrimination that achieve identical results based on function or purpose (for example, “ ‘Political Sign[s],’ ” defined as those “ ‘designed to influence the outcome of an election’ ”).  Id., at 159, 160, 163–164 (alterations in original).  In other words, a regulation of speech cannot escape classification as facially content based simply by swapping an obvious subject-matter distinction for a “function or purpose” proxy that achieves the same result.  That does not mean that any classification that considers function or purpose is always content based.  Such a reading of “function or purpose” would contravene numerous precedents, including many of those discussed above.  Reed did not purport to cast doubt on these cases.

															Nor did Reed cast doubt on the Nation’s history of regulating off-premises signs.  Off-premises billboards of the sort that predominate today were not present in the founding era, but as large outdoor advertisements proliferated in the 1800s, regulation followed.  As early as 1932, the Court had already approved a location-based differential for advertising signs.  See Packer Corp., 285 U. S., at 107, 110. Thereafter, for the last 50-plus years, federal, state, and local jurisdictions have repeatedly relied upon on-/off- premises distinctions to address the distinct safety and esthetic challenges posed by billboards and other methods of outdoor advertising.  See supra, at 2.  The unbroken tradition of on-/off-premises distinctions counsels against the adoption of Reagan’s novel rule.  See Williams-Yulee v. Florida Bar,

575 U.S. 433, 446 (2015) (recognizing “history and tradition of regulation” as relevant when considering the scope of the
 
First Amendment).[6]

															D

															Tellingly, even today’s dissent appears reluctant to embrace the read-the-sign rule adopted by the court below.  Instead, the dissent attacks a straw man.  Contrary to its accusations, we do not “nullif[y]” Reed’s protections, “resuscitat[e]” a decision that we do not cite, or fashion a novel “specificity test” simply by quoting the standard repeatedly enunciated in Reed.  Post, at 9, 11, 21 (opinion of Thomas, J.).  Nor do we cast doubt on any of our precedents recognizing examples of topic or subject-matter discrimination as content based.  See, e.g., post, at 9–10.  We merely apply those precedents to reach the “commonsense” result that a location-based and content-agnostic on-/off-premises distinction does not, on its face, “singl[e] out specific subject matter for differential treatment.”  Reed, 576 U. S., at 163, 169.

															It is the dissent that would upend settled understandings of the law.  Where we adhere to the teachings of history, experience, and precedent, the dissent would hold that tens of thousands of jurisdictions have presumptively violated the
 
First Amendment, some for more than half a century, and that they have done so by use of an on-/off-premises distinction this Court has repeatedly reviewed and never previously questioned.  For the reasons we have explained, the Constitution does not require that bizarre result.

															III

															This Court’s determination that the City’s ordinance is facially content neutral does not end the
 
First Amendment inquiry.  If there is evidence that an impermissible purpose or justification underpins a facially content-neutral restriction, for instance, that restriction may be content based.  See Reed, 576 U. S., at 164.  Moreover, to survive intermediate scrutiny, a restriction on speech or expression must be “ ‘narrowly tailored to serve a significant governmental interest.’ ”  Ward v. Rock Against Racism,

491 U.S. 781, 791 (1989).

															The parties dispute whether the City can satisfy these requirements.  This Court, however, is “a court of final review and not first view,” and it does not “[o]rdinarily . . . decide in the first instance issues not decided below.”  Zivotofsky v. Clinton,

566 U.S. 189, 201 (2012) (internal quotation marks omitted).  “In particular, when we reverse on a threshold question, we typically remand for resolution of any claims the lower courts’ error prevented them from addressing.”  Ibid.  Because the Court of Appeals did not address these issues, the Court leaves them for remand and expresses no view on the matters.

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

															

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
 The City subsequently amended its sign code.  The parties agree that the amendments do not affect this dispute.  Reply to Brief in Opposition 11–12; Brief for Respondent Reagan 9. 

2
 Lamar did not participate in the proceedings on the merits before this Court.  Brief for Respondent Reagan II. 

3
 The Court of Appeals further considered the possibility that the code provisions regulated only commercial speech, such that only intermediate scrutiny would apply even if the provisions were content based.  972 F. 3d, at 707–709; see Central Hudson Gas & Elec. Corp. v. Public Serv. Comm’n of N. Y.,

447 U.S. 557, 566 (1980).  The court rejected this view because the provisions “applie[d] with equal force to both commercial and noncommercial messages.”  972 F. 3d, at 709.  Before this Court, the City makes a similar argument, claiming that “[a]s applied to billboards like those owned by respondents,” the contested code provisions regulate commercial speech and so are subject to intermediate scrutiny.  Brief for Petitioner 49.  It is undisputed, however, that Reagan’s billboards also display noncommercial messages, meaning that the City’s denial of Reagan’s applications for digitization implicated Reagan’s commercial and noncommercial speech alike.  See Brief for Respondent Reagan 45–46; App. 130–141.  More importantly, as the Court of Appeals explained, the contested code provisions admit of no exception for noncommercial speech.  The only way in which they differentiate speech is by distinguishing between on-premises and off-premises signs.  The Court thus must determine which level of scrutiny applies to the manner in which the provisions actually regulate speech. 

4
 The concurrence in Reed, which spoke for three of the six Justices in the majority, similarly explained that “[c]ontent-based laws merit th[e] protection” of strict scrutiny “because they present, albeit sometimes in a subtler form, the same dangers as laws that regulate speech based on viewpoint.  Limiting speech based on its ‘topic’ or ‘subject’ favors those who do not want to disturb the status quo.  Such regulations may interfere with democratic self-government and the search for truth.”  576 U. S., at 174 (Alito, J., concurring) (quoting Consolidated Edison Co. of N. Y., 447 U. S., at 537). 

5
 Although the opinion in Metromedia was labeled a plurality for four Justices, the relevant portion of the opinion was also joined by a fifth.  See 453 U. S., at 541 (Stevens, J., dissenting in part) (“join[ing] Parts I through IV of Justice White’s opinion”). 

6
 The Court of Appeals, for its part, understood Reed to have deemed a regulation content based solely because “it ‘single[d] out signs bearing a particular message: the time and location of a specific event.’ ”  972 F.3d 696, 706 (CA5 2020) (quoting Reed, 576 U. S., at 171).  Reagan does not rely as heavily on this language, and for good reason.  As a preliminary matter, the Reed Court found that the provisions at issue in that case did not, in fact, “hinge on ‘whether and when an event is occurring.’ ”  Id., at 170.  More fundamentally, those provisions did not target all events generally, regardless of topic; they targeted “a specific event” (an election) “because of the topic discussed or the idea or message expressed” (political speech).  Id., at 171.  The Court of Appeals’ contrary reading would render the majority opinion in Reed irreconcilable with the concurrence, which recognized that “[r]ules imposing time restrictions on signs advertising a one-time event,” which “do not discriminate based on topic or subject,” would be content neutral.  Id., at 174, 175 (Alito, J., concurring). 


