::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-010
::decision_cite:: 20-1009
::decision_name::  Shinn v. Martinez Ramirez
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–1009

															_________________

															DAVID SHINN, DIRECTOR, ARIZONA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS, REHABILITATION AND REENTRY, PETITIONER v. DAVID MARTINEZ RAMIREZ

															DAVID SHINN, DIRECTOR, ARIZONA DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS, REHABILITATION AND REENTRY, et al., PETITIONERS v.  BARRY LEE JONES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[May 23, 2022]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															The
 
Sixth Amendment guarantees criminal defendants the right to the effective assistance of counsel at trial.  This Court has recognized that right as “a bedrock principle” that constitutes the very “foundation for our adversary system” of criminal justice.  Martinez v. Ryan,

566 U.S. 1, 12 (2012).  Today, however, the Court hamstrings the federal courts’ authority to safeguard that right.  The Court’s decision will leave many people who were convicted in violation of the
 
Sixth Amendment to face incarceration or even execution without any meaningful chance to vindicate their right to counsel.

															In reaching its decision, the Court all but overrules two recent precedents that recognized a critical exception to the general rule that federal courts may not consider claims on habeas review that were not raised in state court.  Just 10 years ago, the Court held that a federal court may consider a habeas petitioner’s substantial claim of ineffective assistance of trial counsel (a “trial-ineffectiveness” claim), even if not presented in state court, if the State barred the petitioner from asserting that claim until state postconviction proceedings, and the petitioner’s counsel in those proceedings was also ineffective.  See id., at 17; see also Trevino v. Thaler, 
569 U.S. 413, 429 (2013).  Martinez and Trevino establish that such a petitioner is not at fault for any failure to bring a trial-ineffectiveness claim in state court.  Despite these precedents, the Court today holds that such a petitioner is nonetheless at fault for the ineffective assistance of postconviction counsel in developing the evidence of trial ineffectiveness in state court.  The Court instead holds that a petitioner in these circumstances, having received ineffective assistance of trial and postconviction counsel, is barred from developing such evidence in federal court.

															This decision is perverse.  It is illogical: It makes no sense to excuse a habeas petitioner’s counsel’s failure to raise a claim altogether because of ineffective assistance in postconviction proceedings, as Martinez and Trevino did, but to fault the same petitioner for that postconviction counsel’s failure to develop evidence in support of the trial-ineffectiveness claim.  In so doing, the Court guts Martinez’s and Trevino’s core reasoning. The Court also arrogates power from Congress: The Court’s analysis improperly reconfigures the balance Congress struck in the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA) between state interests and individual constitutional rights.

															By the Court’s telling, its holding (however implausible) is compelled by statute.  Make no mistake.  Neither AEDPA nor this Court’s precedents require this result.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															The majority sets forth the gruesome nature of the murders with which respondents were charged.  Our Constitution insists, however, that no matter how heinous the crime, any conviction must be secured respecting all constitutional protections.  The history of respondents’ trials and their state postconviction proceedings illustrates the breakdown in the adversarial system caused by ineffective assistance of counsel, a violation of the
 
Sixth Amendment.

															A

															Respondent Barry Lee Jones was charged with the murder of his girlfriend’s 4-year-old daughter, Rachel Gray.  The State argued that Rachel died as a result of an injury she sustained while in Jones’ care.  Jones’ trial counsel failed to undertake even a cursory investigation and, as a result, did not uncover readily available medical evidence that could have shown that Rachel sustained her injuries when she was not in Jones’ care.  Having heard none of this evidence, the jury convicted Jones and the trial judge sentenced him to death.  

															Jones filed for postconviction review in Arizona state court.  Under Arizona law, Jones was not permitted to argue on direct appeal that his trial counsel rendered constitutionally ineffective assistance; accordingly, state postconviction review was his first opportunity to raise his trial-ineffectiveness claim.  See State v. Spreitz, 202 Ariz. 1, 3, 39 P.3d 525, 527 (2002).  At this stage, however, Jones was met with another egregious failure of counsel.  Arizona state law sets minimum qualifications that attorneys must meet to be appointed in capital cases like Jones’, but the Arizona Supreme Court waived those requirements in Jones’ case, and the state court appointed postconviction counsel who lacked those qualifications.  See Jones v. Ryan, 327 F. Supp. 3d 1157, 1214 (Ariz. 2018) (citing Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13–4041 (2019)).  Jones’ new counsel conducted almost no investigation outside of the evidence in the trial record.  In short, Jones’ postconviction counsel failed to investigate the ineffective assistance of Jones’ trial counsel.  Counsel moved for the appointment of an investigator, but did so under the wrong provision of Arizona law.  The motion was denied.  Counsel ultimately filed a petition for postconviction relief that failed to advance any argument that Jones’ trial counsel was ineffective for failing to investigate the State’s medical evidence.  Arizona courts denied the petition.  See ante, at 4–5.

															Jones then sought federal habeas relief, at last represented by competent counsel, and alleged that his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing adequately to investigate his case.  The District Court held an evidentiary hearing at which Jones presented evidence that the injuries to Rachel could not have been inflicted at the time the State alleged that Jones was with her, and that this evidence would have been readily available to Jones’ trial and state postconviction counsel, had they investigated the case.  The District Court concluded that Jones’ postconviction counsel had rendered ineffective assistance in failing to raise this claim in state postconviction proceedings and therefore held that Jones could raise it for the first time in federal court under Martinez.  The District Court also relied on this evidence to hold, on the merits, that Jones received ineffective assistance at trial.  The court found that there was a “reasonable probability that the jury would not have unanimously convicted [Jones] of any of the counts” if Jones’ trial counsel had “adequately investigated and presented medical and other expert testimony to rebut the State’s theory” of Jones’ guilt.  327 F. Supp. 3d, at 1211.  

															Arizona moved to stay the granting of the habeas writ by arguing that

28 U. S. C. §2254(e)(2), a provision enacted as part of AEDPA, barred the District Court from considering on the merits the evidence that Jones developed to satisfy Martinez’s requirements.  The District Court denied the motion, and the Ninth Circuit affirmed in relevant part.  Relying on Martinez’s recognition that “ ‘[c]laims of ineffective assistance at trial often require investigative work,’ ” the Ninth Circuit concluded that “§2254(e)(2) does not prevent a district court from considering new evidence, developed to overcome a procedural default under Martinez v. Ryan, when adjudicating the underlying claim on de novo review.”  943 F.3d 1211, 1222 (2019) (quoting Martinez, 566 U. S., at 11). 

															B

															Respondent David Ramirez was convicted for the capital murders of his girlfriend and her daughter.  At the sentencing phase, the state court appointed a psychologist to conduct a mental health evaluation.  Ramirez’s counsel failed to provide the psychologist with evidence that Ramirez had an intellectual disability and failed to develop a claim of intellectual disability to present in mitigation against the imposition of a death sentence and in support of the imposition of a sentence of life without parole.  Ramirez was sentenced to death.  

															As in Jones’ case, an Arizona state court appointed Ramirez counsel for his state postconviction claim.  And as in Jones’ case, state postconviction proceedings were Ramirez’s first opportunity to raise a claim of trial ineffectiveness.  Ramirez’s postconviction attorney, however, did not conduct any investigation beyond the existing trial record, despite being aware of indications that Ramirez might have intellectual disabilities, including that his mother drank when she was pregnant with him and that he demonstrated developmental delays as a child.  Nor did Ramirez’s postconviction counsel argue that Ramirez’s trial counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to develop and present this mitigating evidence.  Arizona courts denied Ramirez’s postconviction petition.

															Citing “ ‘concerns regarding the quality’ ” of Ramirez’s prior counsel, a Federal District Court appointed the Arizona Federal Public Defender to represent him in federal habeas proceedings.  Ramirez v. Ryan, 937 F.3d 1230, 1238 (CA9 2019). In his habeas petition, Ramirez raised a claim concerning the ineffectiveness of his trial counsel.  In support of his claim, Ramirez submitted evidence from family members, whom trial counsel and state postconviction counsel had never contacted, revealing the depths of abuse and neglect Ramirez experienced as a child and the life-long manifestations of his possible disability.  The evidence showed that Ramirez grew up eating on the floor and sleeping on dirty mattresses in houses filthy with animal feces; that Ramirez’s mother would beat him with electrical cords; and that Ramirez displayed multiple apparent developmental delays, including “delayed walking, potty training, and speech” and inability to maintain basic hygiene or to use utensils to eat.  Id., at 1239.  In addition, the court-appointed psychologist who evaluated Ramirez during the sentencing phase of trial averred to the habeas court that if trial counsel had provided him with Ramirez’s school records and prior IQ scores, he would have thought they suggested intellectual disability and insisted on more comprehensive testing.[1]  Finally, Ramirez’s trial counsel submitted an affidavit stating that she had not been “prepared to handle ‘the representation of someone as mentally disturbed as . . . Ramirez’ ” and explaining that the evidence from   Ramirez’s family members, had she uncovered it in an investigation, “ ‘would have changed the way [she] handled both [Ramirez’s] guilt phase and his sentencing phase.’ ”  Id., at 1240.  In light of this evidence, Ramirez sought an opportunity to develop his trial-ineffectiveness claim further.[2] 

															The District Court denied relief on Ramirez’s trial-ineffectiveness claim and declined to allow further evidentiary development.  On appeal, Arizona conceded that Ramirez’s postconviction counsel performed deficiently.  The Ninth Circuit reversed and remanded, holding that Ramirez had satisfied the requirements of Martinez because postconviction counsel had provided ineffective representation and Ramirez’s trial-ineffectiveness claim was substantial.  The Ninth Circuit directed the District Court to allow evidentiary development of Ramirez’s trial-ineffectiveness claim, recognizing that he had been “precluded from such development because of his post-conviction counsel’s ineffective representation.”  937 F. 3d, at 1248.  

															II

															 Martinez and Trevino afford habeas petitioners like Jones and Ramirez the opportunity to bring certain trial-ineffectiveness claims for the first time in federal court.  The question before the Court is whether Jones and Ramirez can make good on that opportunity by developing evidence in support of these claims, or whether AEDPA nevertheless requires them to rely on the state-court records, constructed by ineffective trial and postconviction counsel, because they “failed to develop the factual basis of [the ineffective assistance] claim[s] in State court proceedings.”

28 U. S. C. §2254(e)(2).  

															Under this Court’s precedents, the answer is clear.  Martinez and Trevino establish that petitioners are not at fault for any failure to raise their claims in state court in these circumstances.  Other precedents hold that AEDPA’s §2254(e)(2)’s “failed to develop” language, too, incorporates a threshold requirement that the petitioner be at fault for not developing evidence.  A petitioner cannot logically be faultless for not bringing a claim because of postconviction counsel’s ineffectiveness, yet at fault for not developing its evidentiary basis for exactly the same reason.

															A

															This Court’s precedents, culminating in Martinez and Trevino, explain the circumstances under which habeas petitioners are deemed accountable for their attorneys’ failures to present claims in state court.  A petitioner who does not properly present a claim in a state proceeding generally may not raise the claim in federal court, because the claim has been “procedurally defaulted.”  See, e.g., Murray v. Carrier,

477 U.S. 478, 486 (1986).

															A federal court, however, can excuse a procedural default and permit a petitioner to raise a claim for the first time in federal court if the petitioner can “demonstrate cause for the procedural default in state court and actual prejudice as a result of the alleged violation of federal law.”  Maples v. Thomas,

565 U.S. 266, 280 (2012) (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted).  This Court has held that “[c]ause for a procedural default exists where something external to the petitioner . . . that cannot fairly be attributed to him impeded his efforts to comply with the State’s procedural rule.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted). 

															As a general matter, attorney error does not constitute cause to excuse procedural default because courts attribute attorneys’ errors to their clients.  Coleman v. Thompson,

501 U.S. 722, 753 (1991).  In certain situations, however, attorney error will instead “be seen as an external factor” and therefore constitute cause.  Id., at 754.  In Maples, we held that where an attorney abandoned his client without notice, “principles of agency law and fundamental fairness” required finding cause to excuse a procedural default, as the petitioner had been “disarmed by extraordinary circumstances quite beyond his control.”  565 U. S., at 289.  In Coleman, we explained that “[a]ttorney error that constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel” similarly demonstrates cause to excuse procedural default in the context of a direct appeal.  501 U. S., at 753–754.  Coleman explained that error that “constitutes a violation of petitioner’s right to counsel . . . must be seen as an external factor, i.e., ‘imputed to the State’ ” because the
 
Sixth Amendment places the burden of guaranteeing effective assistance of counsel on the State.  Id., at 754.

															Coleman left unanswered the question whether ineffective assistance of counsel at the postconviction stage, where defendants generally do not have a constitutional right to counsel, could also constitute cause to excuse default.  See id., at 755.  This question is critical in Arizona and other States that do not allow defendants to raise trial-ineffectiveness claims on direct appeal, where individuals are constitutionally entitled to effective counsel, and instead require them to raise these claims for the first time in collateral proceedings, in which this Court has not recognized a constitutional right to counsel.

															Martinez,

566 U.S. 1, held that in these States, postconviction counsel’s failure to raise a substantial trial-ineffectiveness claim could constitute cause to excuse a procedural default.  The Court observed that where a state collateral proceeding is the first time that a petitioner can press a trial-ineffectiveness claim, the collateral proceeding is “the equivalent of a prisoner’s direct appeal,” and constitutes the petitioner’s “ ‘one and only appeal’ ” as to that claim.  Id., at 8, 11 (quoting Coleman, 501 U. S., at 756).  Because this result was occasioned by the State’s “deliberat[e] cho[ice] to move [such] claims outside of the direct-appeal process, where counsel is constitutionally guaranteed,” the Court held that the general attorney-attribution rule did not apply where postconviction counsel rendered ineffective assistance, just as it would not if appellate counsel on direct review had done so.  Martinez, 566 U. S., at 13–14, 16.  Instead, Martinez held, for a habeas petitioner with a “substantial” underlying trial-ineffectiveness claim who also has the misfortune of being represented by ineffective postconviction counsel, the failure of postconviction counsel to raise the trial-ineffectiveness claim is not properly attributable to the petitioner.  Id., at 14.  

															A year later, in Trevino,

569 U.S. 413, the Court reaffirmed and extended Martinez’s core holding.  Trevino held that where a State does not offer “a meaningful opportunity to present a claim of ineffective assistance of trial counsel on direct appeal,” a defendant whose collateral-review counsel renders ineffective assistance has demonstrated cause to excuse the procedural default of his trial-ineffectiveness claim.  569 U. S., at 428.[3]

															B

															There is no dispute here that respondents’ trial-ineffectiveness claims clear the procedural default hurdle under Martinez and Trevino.  The question is whether a habeas petitioner can be faultless for a procedural default under Martinez and nonetheless barred by AEDPA’s §2254(e)(2) from seeking an evidentiary hearing in federal court, subject to exceptions not applicable here, because the petitioner “failed to develop the factual basis of [the procedurally defaulted] claim in State court proceedings.”

															Precedent establishes that §2254(e)(2) incorporates a threshold, fault-based “fail[ure] to develop” standard that must be understood in conjunction with the fault-based reasoning in Martinez.  In Williams v. Taylor,

529 U.S. 420 (2000), this Court examined what it means to have “failed to develop the factual basis of a claim” under §2254(e)(2).  The Court concluded that this language imposes a fault-based standard, meaning that it erects a bar only to those who bear some responsibility for a lack of evidentiary development in state-court proceedings.  The Court acknowledged that “fail” is “sometimes used in a neutral way, not importing fault or want of diligence.”  Id., at 431.  As a matter of ordinary meaning, however, the Court concluded that “fail” in §2254(e)(2) connotes “some omission, fault, or negligence.”  Ibid.  The Court explained that “a person is not at fault when his diligent efforts to perform an act are thwarted” by an external force.  Id., at 432.

															Williams found further support for its fault-based reading of “failed to develop” in pre-AEDPA cases that foreshadowed the language of §2254(e)(2).  Specifically, Williams noted the similarity between the text of §2254(e)(2) and the language of the Court’s decision in Keeney v. Tamayo-Reyes,

504 U.S. 1 (1992).  The Williams Court reasoned that when it enacted AEDPA, Congress had “raised the bar Keeney imposed on prisoners who were not diligent” (i.e., those who were at fault) “in state-court proceedings.”  529 U. S., at 433 (emphasis added).  At the same time, however, “the opening clause of §2254(e)(2) codifies Keeney’s threshold standard of diligence.”  Id., at 434.  Phrased differently, under AEDPA, “[i]f there has been no lack of diligence at the relevant stages in the state proceedings, the prisoner has not ‘failed to develop’ the facts under §2254(e)(2)’s opening clause, and he will be excused from showing compliance with the balance of the subsection’s requirements.”  Id., at 437.

															The reasoning of Martinez and Trevino applies with equal force to the threshold diligence/fault standard of Keeney, Williams, and §2254(e)(2).  Under Williams, whether petitioners who satisfy Martinez are nevertheless subject to §2254(e)(2) turns on whether they were at fault for not developing evidence in support of their trial-ineffectiveness claims in state postconviction proceedings.  All agree that a habeas petitioner is not at fault when the responsibility for an error is properly imputed to the State or to some other external factor.  Martinez cases are among the rare ones in which attorney error constitutes such an external factor.  That is because a State’s “deliberat[e] cho[ice]” to move trial ineffectiveness claims outside of direct appeal and into postconviction review “significantly diminishes prisoners’ ability to file such claims.”  Martinez, 566 U. S., at 13.  There is nothing nefarious about this choice, but it is “not without consequences.”  Ibid.  Together, Martinez, Trevino, and Williams demonstrate that when a State both provides a criminal defendant with ineffective trial counsel and decides to remove his trial-ineffectiveness claim from appellate review, postconviction counsel’s ineffectiveness cannot fairly be attributed to the defendant, and he therefore has not “failed to develop the factual basis of [his] claim.”  §2254(e)(2).

															Any other reading hollows out Martinez and Trevino.  Martinez repeatedly recognized that to prove a trial-ineffectiveness claim (or even to show that it is “substantial”), habeas petitioners frequently must introduce evidence outside of the trial record.  See, e.g., 566 U. S., at 13 (“Ineffective-assistance claims often depend on evidence outside the trial record”).  Ineffective-assistance claims frequently turn on errors of omission: evidence that was not obtained, witnesses that were not contacted, experts who were not retained, or investigative leads that were not pursued.  Demonstrating that counsel failed to take each of these measures by definition requires evidence beyond the trial record.  See Trevino, 569 U. S., at 413 (observing that “ ‘the inherent nature of most ineffective assistance’ ” claims means that the “trial court record will often fail to ‘contai[n] the information necessary to substantiate’ the claim”); Brief for Federal Defender Capital Habeas Units as Amici Curiae 4–6.  Indeed, the very reason States like Arizona might choose to reserve a trial-ineffectiveness claim for a collateral proceeding is to allow development of the factual basis for the claim.  Martinez, 566 U. S., at 13.  To hold a petitioner at fault for not developing a factual basis because of postconviction counsel’s ineffectiveness in the Martinez context, however, would be to eliminate altogether such evidentiary development and doom many meritorious trial-ineffectiveness claims that satisfy Martinez.  Such a rule is not only inconsistent with the reasoning of Martinez and Trevino but renders those decisions meaningless in many, if not most, cases.

															C

															Applying this interpretation of §2254(e)(2) here makes clear that Jones and Ramirez are not at fault for their attorneys’ failures to develop the state-court record.  In Jones’ case, the District Court found, and the Ninth Circuit agreed, that Jones satisfied the demanding requirements of Martinez: Arizona appointed postconviction counsel who did not meet the minimum qualifications for appointment and who failed to raise a substantial (indeed, meritorious) trial-ineffectiveness claim.  In Ramirez’s case, too, the Ninth Circuit held that postconviction counsel was ineffective for failing to investigate Ramirez’s upbringing (despite clear indications of his disability) and for failing to raise or develop a substantial claim of trial ineffectiveness.  The lower courts thus held that both respondents satisfied the demanding requirements of Martinez, holdings that the Court does not question.

															By definition, Jones and Ramirez are not at fault for their state postconviction counsel’s failures to develop evidence.  Jones and Ramirez acted diligently, but their attorneys’ errors, paired with the State’s choice of how to structure their review proceedings, constituted external impediments.  As a result, Jones and Ramirez have not “failed to develop” the factual bases of their claims, and AEDPA’s §2254(e)(2), properly interpreted, poses no bar to evidentiary development in federal court.

															III

															Rejecting the teachings of Martinez and Trevino, the Court adopts an irrational reading of §2254(e)(2).  The Court begins with the uncontested proposition that, in the ordinary case, a habeas petitioner “ ‘must bear the risk of attorney error.’ ”  Ante, at 11 (quoting Coleman, 501 U. S., at 753).  From there, the Court leaps to the conclusion that a petitioner is at fault for not developing the evidentiary record on a trial-ineffectiveness claim even if that lack of development was the result of his postconviction counsel’s ineffective assistance.  Ante, at 12.

															The Court’s analysis rests on two fundamental errors.  First, the Court eviscerates Martinez and Trevino and mischaracterizes other precedents.  Second, the Court relies upon its own mistaken understanding of AEDPA’s policies and the state interests at issue, recycling claims rejected by the Martinez Court and ignoring the careful balance struck by Congress.  In doing so, the Court gives short shrift to the egregious breakdowns of the adversarial system that occurred in these cases, breakdowns of the type that federal habeas review exists to correct.

															A

															The doctrinal consequence of the Court’s distortion of precedent is to render Martinez and Trevino dead letters in the mine run of cases.  As explained, those precedents are premised on the understanding that a habeas petitioner is not responsible for a postconviction attorney’s ineffective failure to assert a substantial trial-ineffectiveness claim in States that do not offer petitioners a meaningful opportunity to raise such claims on direct appeal.  The Court, however, does not grapple with this logic on its own terms.  Instead, the Court limits Martinez and Trevino to their facts, emptying them of all meaning in the ordinary case (where, as those precedents explain, a trial-ineffectiveness claim will necessarily rely on evidence beyond the trial record).  Tellingly, the Court relies on the dissent in Trevino to support its disregard of these cases’ reasoning.  See ante, at 18.

															The Court’s analysis also rests on a misplaced view of Williams.  The Court fixates on Williams’ statement that §2254(e)(2) “raised the bar Keeney imposed on prisoners who were not diligent in state-court proceedings.”  529 U. S., at 433; see ante, at 16.  The Court emphasizes the first part of that statement while ignoring its qualification: that §2254(e)(2) raised the bar for “prisoners who were not diligent.”  In other words, it is undisputed that the “bar for excusing a prisoner’s failure to develop the state-court record” is an onerous one, ante, at 12; the question is whether, in this context, a habeas petitioner has failed to develop the record in the first place.  Martinez and Trevino make clear that habeas petitioners in Jones’ and Ramirez’s position do not lack diligence and are not at fault for the failures of their ineffective trial and postconviction counsel.

															The Court further charges that respondents’ interpretation of §2254(e)(2) “lacks any principled limit.”  Ante, at 17.  Here again, the Court resuscitates a complaint that previously was relegated to a dissent.  See Martinez, 566 U. S., at 19 (Scalia, J., dissenting) (“[N]o one really believes that [the holding of Martinez] will remain limited to ineffective-assistance-of-trial-counsel cases”).  The complaint is just as unavailing now that it has captured a majority.  Respondents’ interpretation only affects habeas petitioners raising substantial trial-ineffectiveness claims in the subset of States that limit such claims to postconviction review, just as Martinez did.  In that context, postconviction review is a prisoner’s “one and only appeal” of a trial-ineffectiveness claim, Coleman, 501 U. S., at 756 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis deleted), and the ineffective assistance of counsel at that stage forecloses review of a crucially important constitutional right.  Any assertion that respondents’ interpretation of the statute would blow the door open to myriad other claims is hyperbole that this Court, until today, consistently has rejected.

															Finally, the Court finds it implausible that Congress would have considered the threshold diligence inquiry under §2254(e)(2) to account for the Martinez context.  Ante, at 16–17.  But Congress legislated against the backdrop of Coleman.  Coleman, in turn, made clear (decades before Martinez) that in certain circumstances where attorney error could be “seen as an external factor, i.e., ‘imputed to the State,’ ” including the ineffective assistance of counsel on direct appeal, the prisoner would not properly be deemed at fault.  Coleman, 501 U. S., at 754.  Moreover, it is not uncommon for Congress to adopt statutory language that incorporates an evolving judicial doctrine, see, e.g., Kimble v. Marvel Entertainment, LLC,

576 U.S. 446, 461 (2015), and there is no reason this Court should second-guess Congress’ choice to incorporate a judicially created diligence doctrine here.

															B

															Much of the Court’s opinion focuses not on the text of §2254(e)(2), nor on the relevant precedents, but on what the Court views as AEDPA’s unyielding purpose: ensuring that federal courts “afford unwavering respect” to state court criminal proceedings.  Ante, at 21; see also ante, at 6–9, 18–19, 20–21.  The Court seriously errs by suggesting that AEDPA categorically prioritizes maximal deference to state-court convictions over vindication of the constitutional protections at the core of our adversarial system.

															It is of course true that AEDPA’s rules are designed to “ensure that state-court judgments are accorded the finality and respect necessary to preserve the integrity of legal proceedings within our system of federalism.”  Martinez, 566 U. S., at 9.  The enacting Congress, however, did not pursue these aims at all costs.  AEDPA does not render state judgments unassailable, but strikes a balance between respecting state-court judgments and preserving the necessary and vital role federal courts play in “guard[ing] against extreme malfunctions in the state criminal justice systems.”  Harrington v. Richter,

562 U.S. 86, 102–103 (2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Indeed, “ ‘Congress has recognized that federal habeas corpus has a particularly important role to play in promoting fundamental fairness in the imposition of the death penalty.’ ”  Christeson v. Roper,

574 U.S. 373, 377 (2015) (per curiam).  Absent that role, what this Court regularly calls “the Great Writ” hardly would be worthy of the label.  See, e.g., Holland v. Florida,

560 U.S. 631, 649 (2010).

															The Court today supplants the balance Congress struck with its single-minded focus on finality.  In doing so, it overstates the harm to States that would result from allowing petitioners to develop facts in support of Martinez claims. See ante, at 18.  Importantly, Martinez applies only where the underlying claim is one of trial ineffectiveness, and only if a petitioner demonstrates that the claim is “substantial.”  566 U. S., at 14.  The Court reaches to support its holding by yet again repackaging a dissenter’s warning, this time that Martinez would “put a significant strain on state resources.”  Id., at 22 (opinion of Scalia, J.).  Nearly a decade of experience with Martinez, however, has proved this unfounded prediction false.  In a 9-year sample of three States (Florida, Pennsylvania, and South Carolina), federal courts adjudicated 1,200 habeas petitions raising Martinez claims.  See Brief for Habeas Scholars as Amici Curiae 7–8.  These courts held evidentiary hearings in less than two percent of these cases.  Ibid.  The lower federal courts, in other words, are perfectly capable of policing Martinez’s limits.  There is no reason to expect that to change from an affirmance here.

															In the same vein, the Court bemoans the “sprawling evidentiary hearing” conducted by the District Court in Jones’ case.  Ante, at 19.  Of course, the scope of the District Court’s hearing (including evidence from medical experts, forensic experts, law enforcement personnel, and others) was necessary only because trial counsel failed to present any of that evidence during the guilt phase of Jones’ capital case.  Far from constituting an inappropriate and “wholesale relitigation of Jones’s guilt,” ibid., the District Court’s hearing was wide-ranging precisely because the breakdown of the adversarial system in Jones’ case was so egregious.  

															The Court suggests that evidentiary hearings like Jones’ will “encourag[e] prisoners” to “ ‘sandba[g]’ state courts” by strategically holding back claims from state postconviction review to present them for the first time in federal court.  Ante, at 22.  That claim is odd, particularly in this context.  It is a State’s decision to divert trial-ineffectiveness claims from direct appeal to postconviction review, and then to provide ineffective postconviction counsel, that results in the failure to raise or develop such claims before state courts.  No habeas petitioner or postconviction counsel could possibly perceive a strategic benefit from failing to raise a meritorious trial-ineffectiveness claim in an available forum.  Indeed, the whole thrust of Jones’ and Ramirez’s argument is that their
 
Sixth Amendment claims were so obvious that their state postconviction attorneys were ineffective in failing to assert them.        

															On the other side of the ledger, the Court understates, or ignores altogether, the gravity of the state systems’ failures in these two cases.  To put it bluntly: Two men whose trial attorneys did not provide even the bare minimum level of representation required by the Constitution may be executed because forces outside of their control prevented them from vindicating their constitutional right to counsel.  It is hard to imagine a more “extreme malfunctio[n],” Harrington, 562 U. S., at 102 (internal quotation marks omitted), than the prejudicial deprivation of a right that constitutes the “foundation for our adversary system,” Martinez, 566 U. S., at 12.

															Nor will the damage be limited to these two cases.  Even before Martinez, this Court recognized that a trial record is “often incomplete or inadequate” to demonstrate inadequate assistance of counsel.  Massaro v. United States,

538 U.S. 500, 505 (2003).  A trial record “may contain no evidence of alleged errors of omission,” like a failure sufficiently to investigate a case.  Ibid.  For a court to discern “whether [any] alleged error was prejudicial,” too, it is obvious that “additional factual development” may be required.  Ibid.  The on-the-ground experience of capital habeas attorneys confirms this commonsense notion.  See Brief for Federal Defender Capital Habeas Units as Amici Curiae 3–4.  The Court’s decision thus reduces to rubble many habeas petitioners’
 
Sixth Amendment rights to the effective assistance of counsel.

															Contrary to the Court’s account, the fundamental fairness concerns that arise from this particular type of breakdown are not unconditionally eclipsed by the need to accord finality and respect to state-court judgments.  Ante, at 18.  Finality interests are at their apex when the “essential elements of a presumptively accurate and fair proceeding were present in the proceeding whose result is challenged.”  Strickland v. Washington,

466 U.S. 668, 694 (1984).  The effective assistance of counsel is one of those essential elements.  See Martinez, 566 U. S., at 12. When the effective assistance of counsel is absent, leaving a severely diminished basis for presuming fairness and accuracy, “finality concerns are somewhat weaker.”  Strickland, 466 U. S., at 694.  Neither statute nor precedent supports the Court’s assertion that the virtues of finality override fundamental fairness to such a degree that meaningful review of life-or-death judgments obtained through such deeply flawed proceedings should be foreclosed.

															Ultimately, the Court’s decision prevents habeas petitioners in States like Arizona from receiving any guaranteed opportunity to develop the records necessary to enforce their
 
Sixth Amendment right to the effective assistance of counsel.  For the subset of these petitioners who receive ineffective assistance both at trial and in state postconviction proceedings, the
 
Sixth Amendment’s guarantee is now an empty one.  Many, if not most, individuals in this position will have no recourse and no opportunity for relief.  The responsibility for this devastating outcome lies not with Congress, but with this Court.

															*  *  *

															Text and precedent instruct that in States that limit review of trial-ineffectiveness claims to postconviction proceedings, habeas petitioners who receive ineffective assistance of both trial and postconviction counsel are not responsible for any failure to raise their substantial claim of trial ineffectiveness, nor for any “fail[ure] to develop” evidence in support of that claim under AEDPA’s §2254(e)(2).  By holding otherwise, the Court not only extinguishes the central promise of Martinez and Trevino, but it makes illusory the protections of the
 
Sixth Amendment.  I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 This evidence would have been relevant for the jurors’ penalty deliberations.  Arizona law requires the penalty phase jury to consider, in deciding whether to impose a death sentence, certain “mitigating circumstances,” including the “defendant’s capacity to appreciate the wrongfulness of his conduct.”  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13–751(G)(1).  The Constitution guarantees convicted capital defendants the right to present mitigating evidence.  See Eddings v. Oklahoma,

455 U.S. 104 (1982).   

2
 The District Court initially denied Ramirez’s petition, and Ramirez appealed.  While his appeal was pending in the Ninth Circuit, this Court decided Martinez v. Ryan,

566 U.S. 1 (2012), and the Ninth Circuit remanded Ramirez’s appeal to the District Court in light of that decision.  See App. 452–453.  On remand, the District Court ordered supplemental briefing, and Ramirez submitted affidavits from his family members and trial counsel in support of his trial-ineffectiveness claim.  See id., at 454–455, 473–474. 

3
 While Martinez analyzed a state statutory regime that expressly required defendants to raise an ineffective-assistance-of-trial-counsel claim on collateral review, Trevino confronted a state statutory regime that left open the theoretical possibility of raising such a claim on direct appeal, but made it “ ‘virtually impossible’ ” for defendants to do so.  569 U. S., at 423.   


