::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 20-1199
::decision_name::  Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President and Fellows of Harvard College
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 20–1199 and 21–707

															_________________

															STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC.,
PETITIONER

															20–1199v.

															PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD
COLLEGE

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the first circuit

															

															STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC.,
PETITIONER

															21–707v.

															UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the
united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															[June 29, 2023]

															Justice Kavanaugh, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full. I add
this concurring opinion to further explain why the Court’s
decision today is consistent with and follows from the
Court’s equal protection precedents, including the
Court’s precedents on race-based affirmative action in higher
education.

															Ratified in 1868 in the wake of the Civil War,
the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment provides:
“No State shall . . . deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.” U. S.
Const., Amdt. 14, §1. In accord with the Fourteenth
Amendment’s text and history, this Court considers all racial
classifications to be constitutionally suspect. See Grutter
v. Bollinger, 539 U.S.
306, 326 (2003); Strauder v. West Virginia,
100 U.S.
303, 306–308 (1880). As a result, the Court has long held
that racial classifications by the government, including race-based
affirmative action programs, are subject to strict judicial
scrutiny.

															Under strict scrutiny, racial classifications
are constitutionally prohibited unless they are narrowly tailored
to further a compelling governmental interest. Grutter, 539
U. S., at 326–327. Narrow tailoring requires courts to
examine, among other things, whether a racial classification is
“necessary”—in other words, whether race-neutral
alternatives could adequately achieve the governmental interest.
Id., at 327, 339–340; Richmond v. J. A.
Croson Co., 488 U.S.
469, 507 (1989).

															Importantly, even if a racial classification is
otherwise narrowly tailored to further a compelling governmental
interest, a “deviation from the norm of equal treatment of
all racial and ethnic groups” must be “a temporary
matter”—or stated otherwise, must be “limited in
time.” Id., at 510 (plurality opinion of
O’Connor, J.); Grutter, 539 U. S., at 342.

															In 1978, five Members of this Court held that
race-based affirmative action in higher education did not violate
the Equal Protection Clause or Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, so
long as universities used race only as a factor in admissions
decisions and did not employ quotas. See Regents of Univ. of
Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U.S.
265, 325–326 (1978) (joint opinion of Brennan, White,
Marshall, and Blackmun, JJ.); id., at 287, 315–320
(opinion of Powell, J.). One Member of the Court’s
five-Justice majority, Justice Blackmun, added that race-based
affirmative action should exist only as a temporary measure. He
expressed hope that such programs would be
“unnecessary” and a “relic of the past” by
1988—within 10 years “at the most,” in his
words—although he doubted that the goal could be achieved by
then. Id., at 403 (opinion of Blackmun, J.).

															In 2003, 25 years after Bakke, five
Members of this Court again held that race-based affirmative action
in higher education did not violate the Equal Protection Clause or
Title VI. Grutter, 539 U. S., at 343. This time,
however, the Court also specifically indicated—despite the
reservations of Justice Ginsburg and Justice Breyer—that
race-based affirmative action in higher education would not
be constitutionally justified after another 25 years, at least
absent something not “expect[ed].” Ibid. And
various Members of the Court wrote separate opinions explicitly
referencing the Court’s 25-year limit.

															Justice O’Connor’s opinion for the
Court stated: “We expect that 25 years from now, the use of
racial preferences will no longer be necessary to further the
interest approved today.” Ibid.

															Justice Thomas expressly concurred in
“the Court’s holding that racial discrimination in
higher education admissions will be illegal in 25 years.”
Id., at 351 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in
part).

															Justice Thomas, joined here by Justice Scalia,
reiterated “the Court’s holding” that race-based
affirmative action in higher education “will be
unconstitutional in 25 years” and “that in 25 years the
practices of the Law School will be illegal,” while also
stating that “they are, for the reasons I have given, illegal
now.” Id., at 375–376.

															Justice Kennedy referred to “the
Court’s pronouncement that race-conscious admissions programs
will be unnecessary 25 years from now.” Id., at 394
(dissenting opinion).

															Justice Ginsburg, joined by Justice Breyer,
acknowledged the Court’s 25-year limit but questioned it,
writing that “one may hope, but not firmly forecast, that
over the next generation’s span, progress toward
nondiscrimination and genuinely equal opportunity will make it safe
to sunset affirmative action.” Id., at 346 (concurring
opinion).

															In allowing race-based affirmative action in
higher education for another generation—and only for another
generation—the Court in Grutter took into account
competing considerations. The Court recognized the barriers that
some minority applicants to universities still faced as of 2003,
notwithstanding the progress made since Bakke. See
Grutter, 539 U. S., at 343. The Court stressed,
however, that “there are serious problems of justice
connected with the idea of preference itself.” Id., at
341 (internal quotation marks omitted). And the Court added that a
“core purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment was to do away with
all governmentally imposed discrimination based on race.”
Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).

															The Grutter Court also emphasized the
equal protection principle that racial classifications, even when
otherwise permissible, must be a “ ‘temporary
matter,’ ” and “must be limited in
time.” Id., at 342 (quoting Croson, 488
U. S., at 510 (plurality opinion of O’Connor, J.)). The
requirement of a time limit “reflects that racial
classifications, however compelling their goals, are potentially so
dangerous that they may be employed no more broadly than the
interest demands. Enshrining a permanent justification for racial
preferences would offend this fundamental equal protection
principle.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 342.

															Importantly, the Grutter Court saw
“no reason to exempt race-conscious admissions programs from
the requirement that all governmental use of race must have a
logical end point.” Ibid. The Court reasoned that the
“requirement that all race-conscious admissions programs have
a termination point assures all citizens that the deviation from
the norm of equal treatment of all racial and ethnic groups is a
temporary matter, a measure taken in the service of the goal of
equality itself.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks and
alteration omitted). The Court therefore concluded that race-based
affirmative action programs in higher education, like other racial
classifications, must be “limited in time.”
Ibid.

															The Grutter Court’s conclusion that
race-based affirmative action in higher education must be limited
in time followed not only from fundamental equal protection
principles, but also from this Court’s equal protection
precedents applying those principles. Under those precedents,
racial classifications may not continue indefinitely. For example,
in the elementary and secondary school context after Brown
v. Board of Education, 347 U.S.
483 (1954), the Court authorized race-based student assignments
for several decades—but not indefinitely into the future.
See, e.g., Board of Ed. of Oklahoma City Public
Schools v. Dowell, 498 U.S.
237, 247–248 (1991); Pasadena City Bd. of Ed. v.
Spangler, 427 U.S.
424, 433–434, 436 (1976); Swann v.
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Bd. of Ed., 402 U.S.
1, 31–32 (1971); cf. McDaniel v. Barresi,
402 U.S.
39, 41 (1971).

															In those decisions, this Court ruled that the
race-based “injunctions entered in school desegregation
cases” could not “operate in perpetuity.”
Dowell, 498 U. S., at 248. Consistent with those
decisions, the Grutter Court ruled that race-based
affirmative action in higher education likewise could not operate
in perpetuity.

															As of 2003, when Grutter was decided,
many race-based affirmative action programs in higher education had
been operating for about 25 to 35 years. Pointing to the
Court’s precedents requiring that racial classifications be
“temporary,” Croson, 488 U. S., at 510
(plurality opinion of O’Connor, J.), the petitioner in
Grutter, joined by the United States, argued that race-based
affirmative action in higher education could continue no longer.
See Brief for Petitioner 21–22, 30–31, 33, 42, Brief
for United States 26–27, in Grutter v.
Bollinger, O. T. 2002, No. 02–241.

															The Grutter Court rejected those
arguments for ending race-based affirmative action in higher
education in 2003. But in doing so, the Court struck a careful
balance. The Court ruled that narrowly tailored race-based
affirmative action in higher education could continue for another
generation. But the Court also explicitly rejected any
“permanent justification for racial preferences,” and
therefore ruled that race-based affirmative action in higher
education could continue only for another generation. 539
U. S., at 342–343.

															Harvard and North Carolina would prefer that the
Court now ignore or discard Grutter’s 25-year limit on
race-based affirmative action in higher education, or treat it as a
mere aspiration. But the 25-year limit constituted an important
part of Justice O’Connor’s nuanced opinion for the
Court in Grutter. Indeed, four of the separate opinions in
Grutter discussed the majority opinion’s 25-year
limit, which belies any suggestion that the Court’s reference
to it was insignificant or not carefully considered.

															In short, the Court in Grutter expressly
recognized the serious issues raised by racial
classifications—particularly permanent or long-term racial
classifications. And the Court “assure[d] all citizens”
throughout America that “the deviation from the norm of equal
treatment” in higher education could continue for another
generation, and only for another generation. Ibid. (internal
quotation marks omitted).

															A generation has now passed since
Grutter, and about 50 years have gone by since the era of
Bakke and DeFunis v. Odegaard, 416 U.S.
312 (1974), when race-based affirmative action programs in
higher education largely began. In light of the
Constitution’s text, history, and precedent, the
Court’s decision today appropriately respects and abides by
Grutter’s explicit temporal limit on the use of
race-based affirmative action in higher education.[1]

															Justice Sotomayor, Justice Kagan, and Justice
Jackson disagree with the Court’s decision. I respect their
views. They thoroughly recount the horrific history of slavery and
Jim Crow in America, cf. Bakke, 438 U. S., at
395–402 (opinion of Marshall, J.), as well as the continuing
effects of that history on African Americans today. And they are of
course correct that for the last five decades, Bakke and
Grutter have allowed narrowly tailored race-based
affirmative action in higher education.

															But I respectfully part ways with my dissenting
colleagues on the question of whether, under this Court’s
precedents, race-based affirmative action in higher education may
extend indefinitely into the future. The dissents suggest that the
answer is yes. But this Court’s precedents make clear that
the answer is no. See Grutter, 539 U. S., at
342–343; Dowell, 498 U. S., at 247–248;
Croson, 488 U. S., at 510 (plurality opinion of
O’Connor, J.).

															To reiterate: For about 50 years, many
institutions of higher education have employed race-based
affirmative action programs. In the abstract, it might have been
debatable how long those race-based admissions programs could
continue under the “temporary matter”/“limited in
time” equal protection principle recognized and applied by
this Court. Grutter, 539 U. S., at 342 (internal
quotation marks omitted); cf. Dowell, 498 U. S., at
247–248. But in 2003, the Grutter Court applied that
temporal equal protection principle and resolved the debate: The
Court declared that race-based affirmative action in higher
education could continue for another generation, and only for
another generation, at least absent something unexpected.
Grutter, 539 U. S., at 343. As I have explained, the
Court’s pronouncement of a 25-year period—as both an
extension of and an outer limit to race-based affirmative
action in higher education—formed an important part of the
carefully constructed Grutter decision. I would abide by
that temporal limit rather than discarding it, as today’s
dissents would do.

															To be clear, although progress has been made
since Bakke and Grutter, racial discrimination still
occurs and the effects of past racial discrimination still persist.
Federal and state civil rights laws serve to deter and provide
remedies for current acts of racial discrimination. And governments
and universities still “can, of course, act to undo the
effects of past discrimination in many permissible ways that do not
involve classification by race.” Croson, 488
U. S., at 526 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (internal
quotation marks omitted); see id., at 509 (plurality opinion
of O’Connor, J.) (“the city has at its disposal a whole
array of race-neutral devices to increase the accessibility of city
contracting opportunities to small entrepreneurs of all
races”); ante, at 39–40; Brief for Petitioner
80–86; Reply Brief in No. 20–1199, pp. 25–26;
Reply Brief in No. 21–707, pp. 23–26.

															In sum, the Court’s opinion today is
consistent with and follows from the Court’s equal protection
precedents, and I join the Court’s opinion in full.

Notes
1
 The Court’s
decision will first apply to the admissions process for the college
class of 2028, which is the next class to be admitted. Some might
have debated how to calculate Grutter’s 25-year
period—whether it ends with admissions for the college class
of 2028 or instead for the college class of 2032. But neither
Harvard nor North Carolina argued that Grutter’s
25-year period ends with the class of 2032 rather than the class of
2028. Indeed, notwithstanding the 25-year limit set forth in
Grutter, neither university embraced any temporal
limit on race-based affirmative action in higher education, or
identified any end date for its continued use of race in
admissions. Ante, at 30–34.


