::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-039
::decision_cite:: 20-1800
::decision_name::  Shurtleff v. Boston
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–1800

															_________________

															HAROLD SHURTLEFF, et al., PETITIONERS v. CITY OF BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit

															[May 2, 2022]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Gorsuch join, concurring in the judgment.

															I agree with the Court’s conclusion that Boston (hereafter City) violated the
 
First Amendment’s guarantee of freedom of speech when it rejected Camp Constitution’s application to fly what it characterized as a “Christian flag.”  But I cannot go along with the Court’s decision to analyze this case in terms of the triad of factors—history, the public’s perception of who is speaking, and the extent to which the government has exercised control over speech—that our decision in Walker v. Texas Div., Sons of Confederate Veterans, Inc.,

576 U.S. 200 (2015), derived from Pleasant Grove City v. Summum,

555 U.S. 460 (2009).  See ante, at 6–12.  As the Court now recognizes, those cases did not set forth a test that always and everywhere applies when the government claims that its actions are immune to
 
First Amendment challenge under the government-speech doctrine.  And treating those factors as a test obscures the real question in government-speech cases: whether the government is speaking instead of regulating private expression.

															I

															The government-speech doctrine recognizes that the Free Speech Clause of the
 
First Amendment “restricts government regulation of private speech” but “does not regulate government speech.”  Summum, 555 U. S., at 467.  That doctrine presents no serious problems when the government speaks in its own voice—for example, when an official gives a speech in a representative capacity or a governmental body issues a report.  But courts must be very careful when a government claims that speech by one or more private speakers is actually government speech.  When that occurs, it can be difficult to tell whether the government is using the doctrine “as a subterfuge for favoring certain private speakers over others based on viewpoint,” id., at 473, and the government-speech doctrine becomes “susceptible to dangerous misuse,” Matal v. Tam, 582 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2017) (slip op., at 13–14).

															In Tam, for example, the United States defended a statutory provision that permitted the Patent and Trademark Office to deny federal registration to “disparag[ing]” marks,

15 U. S. C. §1052(a), on the theory that “the registration of a trademark converts the mark into government speech.”  582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17).  We rejected that argument and held that because the Government’s role in registration was limited to applying a standard of assessment to marks generated by private parties, registered marks are not government speech.  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 12–14).  But the Government’s position had radical implications: If registration transforms trademarks into government speech, the same logic would presumably hold for other speech included on systems of government registration.  Books on the copyright registry, for example, would count as the Government’s own speech—presumably subject to editorial control.  And the Government would be free to exclude authors from copyright protection based on their views.  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 17–18).

															To prevent the government-speech doctrine from being used as a cover for censorship, courts must focus on the identity of the speaker.  The ultimate question is whether the government is actually expressing its own views or the real speaker is a private party and the government is surreptitiously engaged in the “regulation of private speech.”  Summum, 555 U. S., at 467.  But our precedent has never attempted to specify a general method for deciding that question, and the Court goes wrong in proceeding as though our decisions in Walker and Summum settled on anything that might be considered a “government-speech analysis.”  Ante, at 6.  In both cases, we employed a fact-bound totality-of-the-circumstances inquiry that relied on the factors that appeared helpful in evaluating whether the speech at issue was government or private speech.  See Walker, 576 U. S., at 210–213; Summum, 555 U. S., at 470–478.  We did not set out a test to be used in all government-speech cases, and we did not purport to define an exhaustive list of relevant factors.  And in light of the ultimate focus of the government-speech inquiry, each of the factors mentioned in those cases could be relevant only insofar as it sheds light on the identity of the speaker.  When considered in isolation from that inquiry, the factors central to Walker and Summum can lead a court astray.

															Consider first “the extent to which the government has actively shaped or controlled the expression.”  Ante, at 6.  Government control over speech is relevant to speaker identity in that speech by a private individual or group cannot constitute government speech if the government does not attempt to control the message.  But control is also an essential element of censorship.  Consider this example.  The British Licensing Act of 1737, 10 Geo. II c. 28, §1, in 17 Eng. Stat. at Large 140 (1765), as amended by the Theatres Act of 1843, 6 & 7 Vict. c. 68, §2 (1843), prohibited the performance of any “interlude, tragedy, comedy, opera, play, farce, or other entertainment” without a patent issued by the King of England or a “License from the Lord Chamberlain of Her Majesty’s Household.”  Ibid.  This regime attracted criticism precisely because it gave the Lord Chamberlain extensive “control over the nature and content,” ante, at 6, of covered performances.  One of the leading critics of the Act—the playwright George Bernard Shaw—was denied permission to perform several plays, including Mrs. Warren’s Profession, The Shewing-up of Blanco Posnet, and Press Cuttings.[1]  But had the Lord Chamberlain approved these plays, would anyone seriously maintain that those plays were thereby transmuted into the government’s speech?

															As this illustration shows, neither “control” nor “final approval authority” can in itself distinguish government speech from censorship of private speech, and analyzing that factor in isolation from speaker identity flattens the distinction between government speech and speech tolerated by the censor.  And it is not as though “actively” exercising control over the “nature and content” of private expression makes a difference, as the Court suggests, ibid.  Censorship is not made constitutional by aggressive and direct application.

															Next, turn to the history of the means of expression.  Ibid.  Historical practice can establish that a means of expression “typically represent[s] government speech.”  Summum, 555 U. S., at 470 (emphasis added); Tam, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17).  But in determining whether speech is the government’s, the real question is not whether a form of expression is usually linked with the government but whether the speech at issue expresses the government’s own message.  Governments can put public resources to novel uses.  And when governments allow private parties to use a resource normally devoted to government speech to express their own messages, the government cannot rely on historical expectations to pass off private speech as its own.  Cf. Summum, 555 U. S., at 480 (explaining that even though monuments in parks are normally government speech, that would not be true if “a town created a monument on which all of its residents (or all those meeting some other criterion) could place the name of a person to be honored or some other private message”).

															This case exemplifies the point.  Governments have long used flags to express government messages, so this factor provides prima facie support for Boston’s position under the Court’s mode of analysis.  Ante, at 7–9.  But on these facts, the history of flags clearly cannot have any bearing on whether the flag displays express the City’s own message.  The City put the flagpoles to an unorthodox use—allowing private parties to use the poles to express messages that were not formulated by City officials.  Treating this factor as significant in that circumstance loads the dice in favor of the government’s position for no obvious reason.

															Now consider the third factor: “the public’s likely perception as to who (the government or a private person) is speaking.”  Ante, at 6.  Our earlier government-speech precedents recognized that “the correct focus” of the government-speech inquiry “is not on whether the . . . reasonable viewer would identify the speech as the government’s,” Johanns v. Livestock Marketing Assn.,

544 U.S. 550, 564, n. 7 (2005), and with good reason.  Unless the public is assumed to be omniscient, public perception cannot be relevant to whether the government is speaking, as opposed merely appearing to speak.  Focusing on public perception encourages courts to categorize private expression as government speech in circumstances in which the public is liable to misattribute that speech to the government.  This case once again provides an apt illustration.  As the Court rightly notes, “[a] passerby on Cambridge Street” confronted with a flag flanked by government flags standing just outside the entrance of Boston’s seat of government would likely conclude that all of those flags “conve[y] some message on the government’s behalf.”  Ante, at 9 (internal quotation marks omitted).  If that is the case, this factor supports the exclusion of private parties from using the flagpoles even though the government allows private parties to use the flagpoles to express private messages, presumably because those messages may be erroneously attributed to the government.  But there is no obvious reason why a government should be entitled to suppress private views that might be attributed to it by engaging in viewpoint discrimination.  The government can always disavow any messages that might be mistakenly attributed to it.

															The factors relied upon by the Court are thus an uncertain guide to speaker identity.  But beyond that, treating these factors as a freestanding test for the existence of government speech artificially separates the question whether the government is speaking from whether the government is facilitating or regulating private speech.  Under the Court’s factorized approach, government speech occurs when the government exercises a “sufficient” degree of control over speech that occurs in a setting connected with government speech in the eyes of history and the contemporary public, regardless of whether the government is actually merely facilitating private speech.  This approach allows governments to exploit public expectations to mask censorship.

															And like any factorized analysis, this approach cannot provide a principled way of deciding cases.  The Court’s analysis here proves the point.  The Court concludes that two of the three factors—history and public perception—favor the City.  But it nonetheless holds that the flag displays did not constitute government speech.  Why these factors drop out of the analysis—or even do not justify a contrary conclusion—is left unsaid.  This cannot be the right way to determine when governmental action is exempt from the
 
First Amendment.

															II

															A

															I would resolve this case using a different method for determining whether the government is speaking.  In my view, the minimum conditions that must be met for expression to count as “government speech” can be identified by considering the definition of “government speech” and the rationale for the government-speech doctrine.  Under the resulting view, government speech occurs if—but only if—a government purposefully expresses a message of its own through persons authorized to speak on its behalf, and in doing so, does not rely on a means that abridges private speech.

															Defined in literal terms, “government speech” is “speech” spoken by the government.  “Speech,” as that term is used in our
 
First Amendment jurisprudence, refers to expressive activity that is “intended to be communicative” and, “in context, would reasonably be understood . . . to be communicative.”  Clark v. Community for Creative Non-Violence,

468 U.S. 288, 294 (1984); see also Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Group of Boston, Inc., 515 U. S 557, 569 (1995).  Our government-speech precedents have worked with largely the same definition.  See, e.g., Summum, 555 U. S., at 472 (accepting monument for placement in a city park “constitute[d] government speech” because the monuments were “meant to convey and have the effect of conveying a government message”); Walker, 576 U. S., at 214 (similar).  And although this definition of “speech” is not fully precise, the purposeful communication of the speaker’s own message generally qualifies as “speech.”

															For “speech” to be spoken by the government, the relevant act of communication must be government action.  Governments are not natural persons and can only communicate through human agents who have been given the power to speak for the government.  When individuals charged with speaking on behalf of the government act within the scope of their power to do so, they “are not speaking as citizens for
 
First Amendment purposes.”  Garcetti v. Ceballos,

547 U.S. 410, 421 (2006).  And because “speech” requires the purposeful communication of the speaker’s own message, the message expressed must have been formulated by a person with the power to determine what messages the government will communicate.  In short, the government must “se[t] the overall message to be communicated” through official action.  Johanns, 544 U. S., at 562.

															Government speech is thus the purposeful communication of a governmentally determined message by a person exercising a power to speak for a government.  But not all governmental activity that qualifies as “government speech” in this literal and factual sense is exempt from
 
First Amendment scrutiny.  For although we have said that the Free Speech Clause “has no application” when a government is “engaging in [its] own expressive conduct,” Summum, 555 U. S., at 467, we have also recognized that “the Free Speech Clause itself may constrain the government’s speech” under certain conditions, as when a “government seeks to compel private persons to convey the government’s speech.”  Walker, 576 U. S., at 208; see also Wooley v. Maynard,

430 U.S. 705 (1977); West Virginia Bd. of Ed. v. Barnette,

319 U.S. 624 (1943).

															That is because the government-speech doctrine is not based on the view—which we have neither accepted nor rejected—that governmental entities have
 
First Amendment rights.  See United States v. American Library Assn., Inc.,

539 U.S. 194, 210–211 (2003); Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Democratic National Committee,

412 U.S. 94, 139, and n. 7 (1973) (Stewart, J., concurring).[2]  Instead, the doctrine is based on the notion that governmental communication—and the exercise of control over those charged by law with implementing a government’s communicative agenda—do not normally “restrict the activities of . . . persons acting as private individuals.”  Rust v. Sullivan,

500 U.S. 173, 198–199 (1991); see also Summum, 555 U. S., at 467 (“The Free Speech Clause restricts government regulation of private speech”); Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of Univ. of Va.,

515 U.S. 819, 833–835 (1995).  So government speech in the literal sense is not exempt from
 
First Amendment attack if it uses a means that restricts private expression in a way that “abridges” the freedom of speech, as is the case with compelled speech.  Were it otherwise, virtually every government action that regulates private speech would, paradoxically, qualify as government speech unregulated by the
 
First Amendment.  Naked censorship of a speaker based on viewpoint, for example, might well constitute “expression” in the thin sense that it conveys the government’s disapproval of the speaker’s message.  But plainly that kind of action cannot fall beyond the reach of the
 
First Amendment.

															It follows that to establish that expression constitutes government speech exempt from
 
First Amendment attack, the government must satisfy two conditions.  First, it must show that the challenged activity constitutes government speech in the literal sense—purposeful communication of a governmentally determined message by a person acting within the scope of a power to speak for the government.  Second, the government must establish it did not rely on a means that abridges the speech of persons acting in a private capacity.  It is only then that “the Free Speech Clause has no application.”  Summum, 555 U. S., at 467.

															This framework explains the conditions under which government communication that relies on private parties can constitute government speech.  Our precedents recognize two ways in which a government can speak using private assistance.  First, the government can prospectively “enlis[t] private entities to convey its own message,” Rosenberger, 515 U. S., at 833, by deputizing private persons as its agents.  See Johanns, 544 U. S., at 560–562, and n. 4; Rust, 500 U. S., at 192–200.  In that kind of situation, private persons assume a public or quasi-public capacity that empowers them to speak on behalf of the government.  So long as this responsibility is voluntarily assumed, speech by a private party within the scope of his power to speak for the government constitutes government speech.

															Second, the government can “adop[t]” a medium of expression created by a private party and use it to express a government message.  Summum, 555 U. S., at 473–474.  In that circumstance, private parties are not deputized by the government; instead a private person generates a medium of expression and transfers it to the government.  Id., at 472–474.  For the adopted expression to qualify as the government’s, the private party must alienate control over the medium of expression to the government.  And government actors must put the medium to use to intentionally express a government message.  Compare id., at 473–475 (holding that a government adopted donated monument because it “took ownership of that monument and put it on permanent display in a park that it owns and manages”), with Tam, 582 U. S., at ___, ___–___ (slip op., at 5, 12–15) (no adoption occurred because governments neither produced nor took ownership of privately generated trademarks).  Otherwise, the government is simply providing a forum for private parties to submit their own productions and usual First Amendment principles apply.  And to avoid running afoul of the prohibition on compelled speech, that alienation must be voluntary.[3]

															This approach also explains the circumstances in which we have concluded that the government is not speaking.  We have repeatedly held that the government-speech doctrine does not extend to private-party speech that is merely subsidized or otherwise facilitated by the government.  See, e.g., Legal Services Corporation v. Velazquez,

531 U.S. 533, 542 (2001); Board of Regents of Univ. of Wis. System v. Southworth,

529 U.S. 217, 229 (2000); Rosenberger, 515 U. S., at 833–834.  Facilitating speech by private persons cannot constitute government speech unless the government assigns a power to speak to those persons or appropriates the products of their expressive activity to express its own message.  When the government’s role is limited to applying a standard of assessment to determine a speaker’s eligibility for a benefit, the government is regulating private speech, and ordinary
 
First Amendment principles apply. Tam, 582 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 13–14).

															For analogous reasons, private-party expression in any type of forum recognized by our precedents does not constitute government speech.  A forum, by definition, is a space for private parties to express their own views.  The government can of course speak as a participant in a forum, but the creation of a space for private discourse does not involve expressing a governmental message, deputizing private parties to express it, or adopting a private party’s contribution as a vehicle of government speech.  So when examination of the government’s “policy and practice” indicates that the government has “intentionally open[ed] a nontraditional forum for public discourse,” a court may immediately infer that private-party expression in the forum is not government speech. Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense & Ed. Fund, Inc.,

473 U.S. 788, 802 (1985).  There is no need to consider history, public perception, or control in the abstract.

															B

															Analyzed under this framework, the flag displays were plainly private speech within a forum created by the City, not government speech.  The record attests that the City’s application materials—which were the only written form of guidance available on the program prior to the adoption of a written policy in 2018—characterized the flagpoles as one of the City’s “public forums.” App. to Pet. for Cert. 137a.  The application guidelines did not enumerate any criteria for access to the flagpoles that go beyond those typical of a resource that has been made generally available to the public.  Id., at 137a–140a. The first rejection of an application was the denial of Camp Constitution’s application in 2017.  Id., at 150a–158a.  Prior to then, the City never rejected any request to raise a flag submitted by any private party.  And private speakers accounted for 78% of the flag-raising applicants.  See Reply Brief 8.

															A program with this design cannot possibly constitute government speech.  The City did nothing to indicate an intent to communicate a message.  Clark, 468 U. S., at 294.  Nor did it deputize private speakers or appropriate private-party expressive content.  The flags flown reflected a dizzying and contradictory array of perspectives that cannot be understood to express the message of a single speaker.  For example, the City allowed parties to fly the gay pride flag, App. to Pet. for Cert. 142a, but it allowed others to fly the flag of Ethiopia, id., at 174a, a country in which “homosexual act[s]” are punishable by “imprisonment for not less than one year.”  The Crim. Code of Fed. Democratic Republic of Eth. 2004, Arts. 629 and 630, Proclamation No. 414/2004.  Indeed, the City disclaimed virtually all messages expressed by characterizing the flagpoles as a “public forum” and adopting access criteria consistent with generalized public use.  The City’s policy and practice thus squarely indicate an intent to open a public forum for any private speakers who met the City’s basic criteria.  The requirement of viewpoint neutrality applies to any forum of this kind.  Cornelius, 473 U. S., at 802.

															As the Court rightly holds, denying Shurtleff ’s application to use that forum constituted impermissible viewpoint discrimination.  Ante, at 12–13.  The City’s stated reason for rejecting Camp Constitution’s application was an unwritten “policy and practice” of “ ‘refrain[ing] from flying non-secular flags on the City Hall flagpoles.’ ”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 153a–154a.  But as we have recognized, religion constitutes a viewpoint, and “speech discussing otherwise permissible subjects cannot be excluded from a limited public forum on the ground that the subject is discussed from a religious point of view.”  Good News Club v. Milford Central School,

533 U.S. 98, 112 (2001); Rosenberger, 515 U. S., at 835.

															The City’s decision was grounded in a belief that “[e]stablished
 
First Amendment jurisprudence” prohibits a government from allowing a private party to “fly a [r]eligious flag on public property.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 153a–154a.  But “[m]ore than once,” this Court has “rejected the position that the Establishment Clause even justifies, much less requires, a refusal to extend free speech rights to religious speakers who participate in broad-reaching government programs neutral in design.”  Rosenberger, 515 U. S., at 839; see also Good News Club, 533 U. S., at 112; Lamb’s Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School Dist.,

508 U.S. 384 (1993).  Indeed, excluding religious messages from public forums that are open to other viewpoints is a “denial of the right of free speech” indicating “hostility to religion” that would “undermine the very neutrality the Establishment Clause requires.” Rosenberger, 515 U. S., at 845–846; see also Board of Ed. of Westside Community Schools (Dist. 66) v. Mergens,

496 U.S. 226, 248 (1990) (plurality opinion).

															Although developments in City policy postdating the denial of Shurtleff ’s application are not relevant to whether that act constituted a
 
First Amendment violation, it should be emphasized that the City’s adoption of a written policy in October 2018 did not to convert the flag displays into government speech.  The policy’s principal provision specified that the City will not “display flags deemed to be inappropriate or offensive in nature or those supporting discrimination, prejudice, or religious” viewpoints.  App. in No. 20–1158 (CA1), p. 570 (App).[4]  That provision did not identify a message the City intended to express; it simply codified the City’s prior exclusion of speakers expressing a “religious viewpoint” and extended it to messages deemed “offensive,” despite the “bedrock
 
First Amendment principle” that “[s]peech may not be banned on the ground that it expresses ideas that offend.”  Tam, 582 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 1–2).

															In briefing before this Court, counsel for the City argued that despite all appearances to the contrary, the City actually did intend to express a message through the flag-raising program: The City’s support for “the diverse national heritage of the City’s population.”  Brief for Respondents 19.  All other flag raisings, the City claims, occurred “in connection with some publicly designated date of observance.”  Ibid.  This argument is a transparent attempt to reverse engineer a governmental message from facts about the flag raisings that occurred.  It is true that many of the flag raisings from 2007 to 2015 celebrated nationalities.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 173a–187a.  But these events were conducted by private organizations to express their own support for the relevant national communities.  Neither the City’s application guidance nor the 2018 written policy singled out a connection with a nationality commemoration as a condition of access to the flagpoles.  The City never cited this purported requirement in its rejection of the applications it denied.  And the City approved flags that had nothing to do with nationality or official holidays, such as the “Metro Credit Union Flag Raising” mentioned by the Court.

															Even if the City had reserved the flagpoles for nationality commemorations and official holidays, that would only mean that the City had reserved the flagpoles “for certain groups or for the discussion of certain topics” and created a nonpublic forum, not that it had engaged in government speech. Rosenberger, 515 U. S., at 829; see also Perry Ed. Assn. v. Perry Local Educators’ Assn.,

460 U.S. 37, 49 (1983) (“Implicit in the concept of the nonpublic forum is the right to make distinctions in access on the basis of subject matter and speaker identity”).  Had the City restricted use of the flagpoles to these subject matters, it could have relied on the forum’s topical limitations to deny applications to host events.  But it could not have employed viewpoint-discriminatory criteria to bar otherwise-eligible speakers from expressing their own views on those subjects.

															On this record, however, the only viable inference is that the City had no policy restricting access to the forum apart from the modest access conditions articulated in the application materials.  Having created a forum with those characteristics, the City could not reject Shurtleff ’s application on account of the religious viewpoint he intended to express.  For that reason, I agree with the Court’s ultimate conclusion and concur in the judgment.
Notes
1
 See generally L. Hugo, Edwardian Shaw: The Writer and His Age 197–230 (1999). 

2
 The text of the
 
First Amendment also seems to exclude the possibility that the Federal Government has a constitutional right to speak, since it prohibits “Congress” and other federal entities and actors from “abridging the freedom of speech.”  A different analysis might be called for in a case in which the Federal Government attempts to restrict the speech of another sovereign.  If the States had
 
First Amendment rights against the Federal Government at the time of ratification, it is not obvious why that right would be eliminated by the incorporation of the speech rights of private citizens against the States through the
 
Fourteenth Amendment. 

3
 The place of Walker within this framework warrants comment.  In that case, properly understood, the government claimed to have adopted specialty-license-plate designs submitted by private parties and actually did “ow[n] the designs on its license plates,” Walker v. Texas Div., Sons of Confederate Veterans, Inc.,

576 U.S. 200, 212 (2015).  But it was not obvious how designs such as “Rather Be Golfing” could possibly express a government message.  Id., at 222 (Alito, J., dissenting).  In other words, although the private parties alienated control over the plate designs, the government did not have any purpose to communicate, and instead allowed private parties to use personal plates to communicate their own messages.  This expansive understanding of government speech by adoption should be confined to government-issued IDs.  As we have said, Walker “likely marks the outer bounds of the government-speech doctrine.”  Matal v. Tam, 582 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 17). 

4
 The policy included six other rules specifying that: (1) flag raisings must occur on “a normal business work day, generally between the hours of 10:00 am and 3:00 pm”; (2) flag raisings must be open to the public and “[g]uests must adhere to the City of Boston policy not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, religion, etc.”; (3) guests must deliver the “guest flag” to City personnel before the raising and retrieve it after; (4) events must be consistent with the City’s “sustainability” policy; (5) flags may be lowered to comply with the U. S. Flag Code; and (6) flags will normally be flown for 24 hours or fewer.  App. 570.  These criteria do not suggest purposeful communication of a government message.  The policy also reserved “sole and complete discretion” to refuse to fly any flag.  Id., at 569.  But this reservation unbridled discretionary control over access to a government-owned medium of expression cannot establish that a speaker permitted to speak through the medium is speaking for the government.  Instead, such discretionary authority is a hallmark of a standardless system of censorship. 


