::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-017
::decision_cite:: 20-1029
::decision_name::  City of Austin v. Reagan National Advertising of Austin, LLC
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–1029

															_________________

															City of Austin, Texas, PETITIONER v. Reagan National Advertising  of Austin, LLC, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[April 21, 2022]

															

															Justice Breyer, concurring.

															Reed v. Town of Gilbert,

576 U.S. 155 (2015), is binding precedent here.  Given that precedent, I join the majority’s opinion.  I write separately because I continue to believe that the Court’s reasoning in Reed was wrong.  The Court there struck down a city’s sign ordinance under the
 
First Amendment.  It wrote that the
 
First Amendment requires strict scrutiny whenever a regulation “target[s] speech based on its communicative content.”  Id., at 163.  It therefore concluded that “[c]ontent-based laws . . . are presumptively unconstitutional and may be justified only if the government proves that they are narrowly tailored to serve compelling state interests.”  Ibid.

															But the
 
First Amendment is not the Tax Code.  Its purposes are often better served when judge-made categories (like “content discrimination”) are treated, not as bright-line rules, but instead as rules of thumb.  And, where strict scrutiny’s harsh presumption of unconstitutionality is at issue, it is particularly important to avoid jumping to such presumptive conclusions without first considering “whether the regulation at issue works harm to
 
First Amendment interests that is disproportionate in light of the relevant regulatory objectives.”  Id., at 179 (Breyer, J., concurring in judgment); Barr v. American Assn. of Political Consultants, Inc., 591 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2020) (Breyer, J., concurring in judgment and dissenting in part) (slip op., at 9–10); Sorrell v. IMS Health Inc.,

564 U.S. 552, 582 (2011) (Breyer, J., dissenting).  Here, I would conclude that the City of Austin’s (City’s) regulation of off-premises signs works no such disproportionate harm.  I therefore agree with the majority’s conclusion that strict scrutiny and its attendant presumption of unconstitutionality are unwarranted.  The majority reaches this conclusion by applying Reed’s formal framework, as stare decisis requires.  I would add that Reed’s strict formalism can sometimes disserve the very
 
First Amendment interests it was designed to protect.

															I

															The
 
First Amendment helps to safeguard what Justice Holmes described as a marketplace of ideas.  Abrams v. United States,
250 U.S. 616, 630 (1919) (dissenting opinion).  A democratic people must be able to freely “generate, debate, and discuss both general and specific ideas, hopes, and experiences.”  Barr, 591 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Breyer, J.) (slip op., at 3).  They “must then be able to transmit their resulting views and conclusions to their elected representatives, which they may do directly, or indirectly through the shaping of public opinion.”  Ibid.  Those representatives can respond by turning the people’s ideas into policies.  The
 
First Amendment, by protecting the “marketplace” and the “transmission” of ideas, thereby helps to protect the basic workings of democracy itself.  See Meyer v. Grant,

486 U.S. 414, 421 (1988) (“The
 
First Amendment was ‘fashioned to assure unfettered interchange of ideas for the bringing about of political and social changes desired by the people’ ”).

															Courts help to protect these democratic values in part by strictly scrutinizing certain categories of laws that threaten to “ ‘drive certain ideas or viewpoints from the marketplace.’ ”  R. A. V. v. St. Paul,

505 U.S. 377, 387 (1992).  We have recognized, for example, that
 
First Amendment values are in danger when the government imposes restrictions upon “ ‘core political speech,’ ” Buckley v. American Constitutional Law Foundation, Inc.,

525 U.S. 182, 186–187 (1999); when it discriminates against “particular views taken by speakers on a subject,” Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of Univ. of Va.,

515 U.S. 819, 829–830 (1995); and, in some contexts, when it removes “an entire topic” of discussion from public debate, Consolidated Edison Co. of N. Y. v. Public Serv. Comm’n of N. Y.,

447 U.S. 530, 537–538 (1980).

															But not all laws that distinguish between speech based on its content fall into a category of this kind.  That is in part because many ordinary regulatory programs may well turn on the content of speech without posing any “realistic possibility that official suppression of ideas is afoot.”  R. A. V., 505 U. S., at 390.  Those regulations, rather than hindering the ability of the people to transmit their thoughts to their elected representatives, may constitute the very product of that transmission.  Barr, 591 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Breyer, J.) (slip op., at 4).

															The U. S. Code (as well as its state and local equivalents) is filled with regulatory laws that turn, often necessarily, on the content of speech.  Consider laws regulating census reporting requirements, e.g.,

13 U. S. C. §224; securities- related disclosures, e.g.,

15 U. S. C. §78l; copyright infringement, e.g.,

17 U. S. C. §102; labeling of prescription drugs, e.g.,

21 U. S. C. §353(b)(4)(A), or consumer electronics, e.g.,

42 U. S. C. §6294; highway signs, e.g.,

23 U. S. C. §131(c); tax disclosures, e.g.,

26 U. S. C. §6039F; confidential medical records, e.g.,

38 U. S. C. §7332; robocalls, e.g.,

47 U. S. C. §227; workplace safety warnings, e.g., 29 CFR §1910.145 (2021); panhandling, e.g., Ala. Code §13A–11–9(a) (2022); solicitation on behalf of charities, e.g., N. Y. Exec. Law Ann. §174–b (West 2019); signs at petting zoos, e.g., N. Y. Gen. Bus. Law Ann. §399–ff(3) (West 2015); and many more.

															If Reed is taken as setting forth a formal rule that courts must strictly scrutinize regulations simply because they refer to particular content, we have good reason to fear the consequences of that decision.  One possibility is that courts will strike down “ ‘entirely reasonable’ ” regulations that reflect the will of the people.  Reed, 576 U. S., at 171; e.g., Barr, 591 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9) (striking down the Telephone Consumer Protection Act’s exception allowing robocalls that collect government debt); IMDB.com v. Becerra, 962 F.3d 1111, 1125–1127 (CA9 2020) (striking down a California law prohibiting certain websites from publishing the birthdates of entertainment professionals).  If so, the Court’s content-based line-drawing will “substitut[e] judicial for democratic decisionmaking” and threaten the ability of the people to translate their ideas into policy.  Sorrell, 564 U. S., at 603 (Breyer, J., dissenting).

															A second possibility is that courts instead will (perhaps unconsciously) dilute the stringent strict scrutiny standard in an effort to avoid striking down reasonable regulations.  Doing so would “weaken the
 
First Amendment’s protection in instances where ‘strict scrutiny’ should apply in full force.”  Reed, 576 U. S., at 178 (opinion of Breyer, J.).

															A third possibility is that courts will develop a matrix of formal subsidiary rules and exceptions that seek to distinguish between reasonable and unreasonable content-based regulations.  Such a patchwork, however, may prove overly complex, unwieldy, or unworkable.  And it may make it more difficult for ordinary Americans to understand the importance of
 
First Amendment values and to live their lives in accord with those values.

															For these reasons, as I have said before, I would reject Reed’s approach, which too rigidly ties content discrimination to strict scrutiny (and, consequently, to “almost certain legal condemnation”).  Id., at 176.  Instead, I would treat content discrimination as a rule of thumb to be applied with what Justice Kagan has called “a dose of common sense.”  Id., at 183 (opinion concurring in judgment).  Where content-based regulations are at issue, I would ask a more basic
 
First Amendment question: Does “the regulation at issue wor[k] harm to
 
First Amendment interests that is disproportionate in light of the relevant regulatory objectives”?  Id., at 179 (opinion of Breyer, J.).  I believe we should answer that question by examining “the seriousness of the harm to speech, the importance of the countervailing objectives, the extent to which the law will achieve those objectives, and whether there are other, less restrictive ways of doing so.”  Ibid.

															II

															The regulation at issue in this case is the City of Austin’s sign code, which regulates billboards and other “off- premises” signs.  The City defines an “off-premises” sign as “a sign advertising a business, person, activity, goods, products, or services not located on the site where the sign is installed, or that directs persons to any location not on that site.”  Austin, Tex., City Code §25–10–3(11) (2016).

															Some years ago, the City forbid construction of new off-premises signs.  §25–10–102(1).  At the same time, it grandfathered in existing off-premises signs, allowing them to remain but subjecting them to regulation.  §§25–10–3(10), 25–10–152(A), (B).  Owners of grandfathered off-premises signs are allowed to change the face of their signs, but not to digitize them.  Ibid.  In the case before us, owners who wanted to digitize their off-premises signs challenged the City’s regulation on the ground that it violates the
 
First Amendment.

															The Court remands for the lower courts to assess the constitutionality of this regulation in the first instance, so I need not answer that question conclusively now.  I wish only to illustrate why I believe a strong presumption of unlawfulness is out of place here.

															Billboards and other roadside signs can generally be categorized as a form of outdoor advertising.  Regulation of outdoor advertising in order to protect the public’s interest in “avoiding visual clutter,” Members of City Council of Los Angeles v. Taxpayers for Vincent,

466 U.S. 789, 806 (1984), or minimizing traffic risks, Metromedia, Inc. v. San Diego,

453 U.S. 490, 507–508 (1981), is unlikely to interfere significantly with the “marketplace of ideas.”  In this case, for example, there is no evidence that the City regulated off-premises signs in order to censor a particular viewpoint or topic, or that its regulations have had that effect in practice.  There is consequently little reason to apply a presumption of unconstitutionality to this kind of regulation.

															Without such a presumption, I would weigh the
 
First Amendment harms that a regulation imposes against the regulatory objectives that it serves.  The City’s regulation here appears to work at most a limited, niche-like harm to
 
First Amendment interests.  Respondents own a number of grandfathered off-premises signs.  They can use those signs to communicate whatever messages they choose.  They complain only that they cannot digitize the signs, which would allow them to display several messages in rapid succession.  Perhaps digitization would enable them to make more effective use of their billboard space.  But their inability to maximize the use of their space in this way is unlikely to meaningfully interfere with their participation in the “marketplace of ideas.”

															At the same time, the City has asserted a legitimate interest in maintaining the regulation.  As I have said, the public has an interest in ensuring traffic safety and preserving an esthetically pleasing environment, supra this page, and the City here has reasonably explained how its regulation of off-premises signs in general, and digitization in particular, serves those interests.  Amici tell us that billboards, especially digital ones, can distract drivers and cause accidents.  See, e.g., Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 21 (citing a study of 450 crashes in Alabama and Florida that “revealed that the presence of digital billboards increased the overall crash rates in areas of billboard influence”); Brief for National League of Cities et al. as Amici Curiae 22 (“ ‘The Wisconsin Department of Transport found a 35% increase in collisions near a variable message sign’ ” (alteration omitted)).  They add that on-premises signs are less likely to cause accidents.  Id., at 23 (“[A] 2014 study found no evidence that on premises digital signs led to an increase in crashes”).  The City further says that billboards cause more visual clutter than on-premises signs because the latter are “typically ‘small in size’ and integrated into the premises.”  Reply Brief 19.

															I would leave for the courts below to weigh these harms and interests, and any alternatives, in the first instance, without a strong presumption of unconstitutionality.
													
