::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 20-1199
::decision_name::  Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President and Fellows of Harvard College
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 20–1199 and 21–707

															_________________

															STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC.,
PETITIONER

															20–1199v.

															PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD
COLLEGE

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the first circuit

															

															STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC.,
PETITIONER

															21–707v.

															UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the
united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															[June 29, 2023]

															Justice Thomas, concurring.

															In the wake of the Civil War, the country
focused its attention on restoring the Union and establishing the
legal status of newly freed slaves. The Constitution was amended to
abolish slavery and proclaim that all persons born in the United
States are citizens, entitled to the privileges or immunities of
citizenship and the equal protection of the laws. Amdts. 13, 14.
Because of that second founding, “[o]ur Constitution is
color-blind, and neither knows nor tolerates classes among
citizens.” Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U.S.
537, 559 (1896) (Harlan, J., dissenting).

															This Court’s commitment to that equality
principle has ebbed and flowed over time. After forsaking the
principle for decades, offering a judicial imprimatur to
segregation and ushering in the Jim Crow era, the Court finally
corrected course in Brown v. Board of Education,
347 U.S.
483 (1954), announcing that primary schools must either
desegregate with all deliberate speed or else close their doors.
See also Brown v. Board of Education, 349 U.S.
294 (1955) (Brown II ). It then pulled back in
Grutter v. Bollinger, 539 U.S.
306 (2003), permitting universities to discriminate based on
race in their admissions process (though only temporarily) in order
to achieve alleged “educational benefits of diversity.”
Id., at 319. Yet, the Constitution continues to embody a
simple truth: Two discriminatory wrongs cannot make a right.

															I wrote separately in Grutter, explaining
that the use of race in higher education admissions
decisions—regardless of whether intended to help or to
hurt—violates the Fourteenth Amendment. Id., at 351
(opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). In the decades
since, I have repeatedly stated that Grutter was wrongly
decided and should be overruled. Fisher v. University of
Tex. at Austin, 570 U.S.
297, 315, 328 (2013) (concurring opinion) (Fisher
I ); Fisher v. University of Tex. at Austin,
579 U.S. 365, 389 (2016) (dissenting opinion). Today, and despite a
lengthy interregnum, the Constitution prevails.

															Because the Court today applies genuine strict
scrutiny to the race-conscious admissions policies employed at
Harvard and the University of North Carolina (UNC) and finds that
they fail that searching review, I join the majority opinion in
full. I write separately to offer an originalist defense of the
colorblind Constitution; to explain further the flaws of the
Court’s Grutter jurisprudence; to clarify that all
forms of discrimination based on race—including so-called
affirmative action—are prohibited under the Constitution; and
to emphasize the pernicious effects of all such discrimination.

															I

															In the 1860s, Congress proposed and the States
ratified the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments. And, with the
authority conferred by these Amendments, Congress passed two
landmark Civil Rights Acts. Throughout the debates on each of these
measures, their proponents repeatedly affirmed their view of equal
citizenship and the racial equality that flows from it. In fact,
they held this principle so deeply that their crowning
accomplishment—the Fourteenth Amendment—ensures racial
equality with no textual reference to race whatsoever. The
history of these measures’ enactment renders their motivating
principle as clear as their text: All citizens of the United
States, regardless of skin color, are equal before the law.

															I do not contend that all of the individuals who
put forth and ratified the Fourteenth Amendment universally
believed this to be true. Some Members of the proposing Congress,
for example, opposed the Amendment. And, the historical
record—particularly with respect to the debates on
ratification in the States—is sparse. Nonetheless,
substantial evidence suggests that the Fourteenth Amendment was
passed to “establis[h] the broad constitutional principle of
full and complete equality of all persons under the law,”
forbidding “all legal distinctions based on race or
color.” Supp. Brief for United States on Reargument in
Brown v. Board of Education, O. T. 1953, No. 1
etc., p. 115 (U. S. Brown Reargument
Brief ).

															This was Justice Harlan’s view in his lone
dissent in Plessy, where he observed that “[o]ur
Constitution is color-blind.” 163 U. S., at 559. It was
the view of the Court in Brown, which rejected
“ ‘any authority . . . to use race as a
factor in affording educational opportunities.’ ”
Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School
Dist. No. 1, 551 U.S.
701, 747 (2007). And, it is the view adopted in the
Court’s opinion today, requiring “the absolute equality
of all citizens” under the law. Ante, at 10 (internal
quotation marks omitted).

															A

															In its 1864 election platform, the Republican
Party pledged to amend the Constitution to accomplish the
“utter and complete extirpation” of slavery from
“the soil of the Republic.” 2 A. Schlesinger, History
of U. S. Political Parties 1860–1910, p. 1303
(1973). After their landslide victory, Republicans quickly moved to
make good on that promise. Congress proposed what would become the
Thirteenth Amendment to the States in January 1865, and it was
ratified as part of the Constitution later that year. The new
Amendment stated that “[n]either slavery nor involuntary
servitude . . . shall exist” in the United States
“except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall
have been duly convicted.” §1. It thus not only
prohibited States from themselves enslaving persons, but also
obligated them to end enslavement by private individuals within
their borders. Its Framers viewed the text broadly, arguing that it
“allowed Congress to legislate not merely against slavery
itself, but against all the badges and relics of a slave
system.” A. Amar, America’s Constitution: A Biography
362 (2005) (internal quotation marks omitted). The Amendment also
authorized “Congress . . . to enforce” its
terms “by appropriate legislation”—authority not
granted in any prior Amendment. §2. Proponents believed this
enforcement clause permitted legislative measures designed to
accomplish the Amendment’s broader goal of equality for the
freedmen.

															It quickly became clear, however, that further
amendment would be necessary to safeguard that goal. Soon after the
Thirteenth Amendment’s adoption, the reconstructed Southern
States began to enact “Black Codes,” which
circumscribed the newly won freedoms of blacks. The Black Code of
Mississippi, for example, “imposed all sorts of
disabilities” on blacks, “including limiting their
freedom of movement and barring them from following certain
occupations, owning firearms, serving on juries, testifying in
cases involving whites, or voting.” E. Foner, The Second
Founding 48 (2019).

															Congress responded with the landmark Civil
Rights Act of 1866, 14Stat. 27, in an attempt to pre-empt the Black
Codes. The 1866 Act promised such a sweeping form of equality that
it would lead many to say that it exceeded the scope of
Congress’ authority under the Thirteenth Amendment. As
enacted, it stated:

															“Be it enacted by the Senate and
House of Representatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That all persons born in the United States
and not subject to any foreign power, excluding Indians not taxed,
are hereby declared to be citizens of the United States; and such
citizens, of every race and color, without regard to any previous
condition of slavery or involuntary servitude, except as a
punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly
convicted, shall have the same right, in every State and Territory
in the United States, to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be
parties, and give evidence, to inherit, purchase, lease, sell,
hold, and convey real and personal property, and to full and equal
benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of person and
property, as is enjoyed by white citizens, and shall be subject to
like punishment, pains, and penalties, and to none other, any law,
statute, ordinance, regulation, or custom, to the contrary
notwithstanding.”

															The text of the provision left no doubt as to
its aim: All persons born in the United States were equal citizens
entitled to the same rights and subject to the same penalties as
white citizens in the categories enumerated. See M. McConnell,
Originalism and the Desegregation Decisions, 81 Va. L. Rev.
947, 958 (1995) (“Note that the bill neither forbade racial
discrimination generally nor did it guarantee particular rights to
all persons. Rather, it required an equality in certain specific
rights”). And, while the 1866 Act used the rights of
“white citizens” as a benchmark, its rule was decidedly
colorblind, safeguarding legal equality for all citizens
“of every race and color” and providing the same rights
to all.

															The 1866 Act’s evolution further
highlights its rule of equality. To start, Dred Scott v.
Sandford, 19 How. 393 (1857), had previously held that
blacks “were not regarded as a portion of the people or
citizens of the Government” and “had no rights which
the white man was bound to respect.” Id., at 407, 411.
The Act, however, would effectively overrule Dred Scott and
ensure the equality that had been promised to blacks. But the Act
went further still. On January 29, 1866, Senator Lyman Trumbull,
the bill’s principal sponsor in the Senate, proposed text
stating that “all persons of African descent born in the
United States are hereby declared to be citizens.” Cong.
Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 474. The following day, Trumbull
revised his proposal, removing the reference to “African
descent” and declaring more broadly that “all persons
born in the United States, and not subject to any foreign
Power,” are “citizens of the United States.”
Id., at 498.

															“In the years before the Fourteenth
Amendment’s adoption, jurists and legislators often connected
citizenship with equality,” where “the absence or
presence of one entailed the absence or presence of the
other.” United States v. Vaello Madero, 596
U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at
6). The addition of a citizenship guarantee thus evidenced an
intent to broaden the provision, extending beyond recently freed
blacks and incorporating a more general view of equality for
all Americans. Indeed, the drafters later included a
specific carveout for “Indians not taxed,”
demonstrating the breadth of the bill’s otherwise general
citizenship language. 14Stat. 27.[1] As Trumbull explained, the provision created a bond
between all Americans; “any statute which is not equal to
all, and which deprives any citizen of civil rights which
are secured to other citizens,” was “an unjust
encroachment upon his liberty” and a “badge of
servitude” prohibited by the Constitution. Cong. Globe, 39th
Cong., 1st Sess., at 474 (emphasis added).

															Trumbull and most of the Act’s other
supporters identified the Thirteenth Amendment as a principal
source of constitutional authority for the Act’s
nondiscrimination provisions. See, e.g., id., at 475
(statement of Sen. Trumbull); id., at 1152 (statement of
Rep. Thayer); id., at 503–504 (statement of Sen.
Howard). In particular, they explained that the Thirteenth
Amendment allowed Congress not merely to legislate against slavery
itself, but also to counter measures “which depriv[e] any
citizen of civil rights which are secured to other citizens.”
Id., at 474.

															But opponents argued that Congress’
authority did not sweep so broadly. President Andrew Johnson, for
example, contended that Congress lacked authority to pass the
measure, seizing on the breadth of the citizenship text and
emphasizing state authority over matters of state citizenship. See
S. Doc. No. 31, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 1, 6 (1866) (Johnson veto
message). Consequently, “doubts about the constitutional
authority conferred by that measure led supporters to supplement
their Thirteenth Amendment arguments with other sources of
constitutional authority.” R. Williams, Originalism and the
Other Desegregation Decision, 99 Va. L. Rev. 493,
532–533 (2013) (describing appeals to the naturalization
power and the inherent power to protect the rights of citizens). As
debates continued, it became increasingly apparent that
safeguarding the 1866 Act, including its promise of black
citizenship and the equal rights that citizenship entailed, would
require further submission to the people of the United States in
the form of a proposed constitutional amendment. See, e.g.,
Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 498 (statement of Sen. Van
Winkle).

															B

															Critically, many of those who believed that
Congress lacked the authority to enact the 1866 Act also supported
the principle of racial equality. So, almost immediately following
the ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment, several proposals for
further amendments were submitted in Congress. One such proposal,
approved by the Joint Committee on Reconstruction and then
submitted to the House of Representatives on February 26, 1866,
would have declared that “[t]he Congress shall have power to
make all laws which shall be necessary and proper to secure to the
citizens of each State all privileges and immunities of citizens in
the several States, and to all persons in the several States equal
protection in the rights of life, liberty, and property.”
Id., at 1033–1034. Representative John Bingham, its
drafter, was among those who believed Congress lacked the power to
enact the 1866 Act. See id., at 1291. Specifically, he
believed the “very letter of the Constitution” already
required equality, but the enforcement of that requirement
“is of the reserved powers of the States.” Cong. Globe,
39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 1034, 1291 (statement of Rep. Bingham).
His proposed constitutional amendment accordingly would provide a
clear constitutional basis for the 1866 Act and ensure that future
Congresses would be unable to repeal it. See W. Nelson, The
Fourteenth Amendment 48–49 (1988).

															Discussion of Bingham’s initial draft was
later postponed in the House, but the Joint Committee on
Reconstruction continued its work. See 2 K. Lash, The
Reconstruction Amendments 8 (2021). In April, Representative
Thaddeus Stevens proposed to the Joint Committee an amendment that
began, “[n]o discrimination shall be made by any State nor by
the United States as to the civil rights of persons because of
race, color, or previous condition of servitude.” S. Doc. No.
711, 63d Cong., 1st Sess., 31–32 (1915) (reprinting the
Journal of the Joint Committee on Reconstruction for the
Thirty-Ninth Congress). Stevens’ proposal was later revised
to read as follows: “ ‘No State shall make or
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law,
nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the laws.’ ” Id., at 39. This revised
text was submitted to the full House on April 30, 1866. Cong.
Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 2286–2287. Like the eventual
first section of the Fourteenth Amendment, this proposal embodied
the familiar Privileges or Immunities, Due Process, and Equal
Protection Clauses. And, importantly, it also featured an
enforcement clause—with text borrowed from the Thirteenth
Amendment—conferring upon Congress the power to enforce its
provisions. Ibid.

															Stevens explained that the draft was intended to
“allo[w] Congress to correct the unjust legislation of the
States, so far that the law which operates upon one man shall
operate equally upon all.” Id., at 2459.
Moreover, Stevens’ later statements indicate that he did not
believe there was a difference “in substance between the new
proposal and” earlier measures calling for impartial and
equal treatment without regard to race. U. S. Brown
Reargument Brief 44 (noting a distinction only with respect to a
suffrage provision). And, Bingham argued that the need for the
proposed text was “one of the lessons that have been taught
. . . by the history of the past four years of terrific
conflict” during the Civil War. Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st
Sess., at 2542. The proposal passed the House by a vote of 128 to
37. Id., at 2545.

															Senator Jacob Howard introduced the proposed
Amendment in the Senate, powerfully asking, “Ought not the
time to be now passed when one measure of justice is to be meted
out to a member of one caste while another and a different measure
is meted out to the member of another caste, both castes being
alike citizens of the United States, both bound to obey the same
laws, to sustain the burdens of the same Government, and both
equally responsible to justice and to God for the deeds done in the
body?” Id., at 2766. In keeping with this view, he
proposed an introductory sentence, declaring that
“ ‘all persons born in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the States wherein they reside.’ ”
Id., at 2869. This text, the Citizenship Clause, was the
final missing element of what would ultimately become §1 of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Howard’s draft for the proposed
citizenship text was modeled on the Civil Rights Act of
1866’s text, and he suggested the alternative language to
“remov[e] all doubt as to what persons are or are not
citizens of the United States,” a question which had
“long been a great desideratum in the jurisprudence and
legislation of this country.” Id., at 2890. He further
characterized the addition as “simply declaratory of what I
regard as the law of the land already.” Ibid.

															The proposal was approved in the Senate by a
vote of 33 to 11. Id., at 3042. The House then reconciled
differences between the two measures, approving the Senate’s
changes by a vote of 120 to 32. See id., at 3149. And, in
June 1866, the amendment was submitted to the States for their
consideration and ratification. Two years later, it was ratified by
the requisite number of States and became the Fourteenth Amendment
to the United States Constitution. See 15Stat. 706–707;
id., at 709–711. Its opening words instilled in our
Nation’s Constitution a new birth of freedom:

															“All persons born or naturalized in
the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are
citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.
No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor
shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.” §1.

															As enacted, the text of the Fourteenth Amendment
provides a firm statement of equality before the law. It begins by
guaranteeing citizenship status, invoking the “longstanding
political and legal tradition that closely associated the status of
citizenship with the entitlement to legal equality.”
Vaello Madero, 596 U. S., at ___ (Thomas, J.,
concurring) (slip op., at 6) (internal quotation marks omitted). It
then confirms that States may not “abridge the rights of
national citizenship, including whatever civil equality is
guaranteed to ‘citizens’ under the Citizenship
Clause.” Id., at ___, n. 3 (slip op., at 13,
n. 3). Finally, it pledges that even noncitizens must be
treated equally “as individuals, and not as members of
racial, ethnic, or religious groups.” Missouri v.
Jenkins, 515 U.S.
70, 120–121 (1995) (Thomas, J., concurring).

															The drafters and ratifiers of the Fourteenth
Amendment focused on this broad equality idea, offering
surprisingly little explanation of which term was intended to
accomplish which part of the Amendment’s overall goal.
“The available materials . . . show,”
however, “that there were widespread expressions of a general
understanding of the broad scope of the Amendment similar to that
abundantly demonstrated in the Congressional debates, namely, that
the first section of the Amendment would establish the full
constitutional right of all persons to equality before the law and
would prohibit legal distinctions based on race or color.”
U. S. Brown Reargument Brief 65 (citation omitted). For
example, the Pennsylvania debate suggests that the Fourteenth
Amendment was understood to make the law “what justice is
represented to be, blind” to the “color of
[one’s] skin.” App. to Pa. Leg. Record XLVIII (1867)
(Rep. Mann).

															The most commonly held view
today—consistent with the rationale repeatedly invoked during
the congressional debates, see, e.g., Cong. Globe, 39th
Cong., 1st Sess., at 2458–2469—is that the Amendment
was designed to remove any doubts regarding Congress’
authority to enact the Civil Rights Act of 1866 and to establish a
nondiscrimination rule that could not be repealed by future
Congresses. See, e.g., J. Harrison, Reconstructing the
Privileges or Immunities Clause, 101 Yale L. J. 1385, 1388
(1992) (noting that the “primary purpose” of the
Fourteenth Amendment “was to mandate certain rules of racial
equality, especially those contained in Section 1 of the Civil
Rights Act of 1866”).[2]
The Amendment’s phrasing supports this view, and there does
not appear to have been any argument to the contrary predating
Brown.

															Consistent with the Civil Rights Act of
1866’s aim, the Amendment definitively overruled Chief
Justice Taney’s opinion in Dred Scott that blacks
“were not regarded as a portion of the people or citizens of
the Government” and “had no rights which the white man
was bound to respect.” 19 How., at 407, 411. And, like the
1866 Act, the Amendment also clarified that American citizenship
conferred rights not just against the Federal Government but also
the government of the citizen’s State of residence. Unlike
the Civil Rights Act, however, the Amendment employed a wholly
race-neutral text, extending privileges or immunities to all
“citizens”—even if its practical effect was to
provide all citizens with the same privileges then enjoyed by
whites. That citizenship guarantee was often linked with the
concept of equality. Vaello Madero, 596 U. S., at ___
(Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 10). Combining the
citizenship guarantee with the Privileges or Immunities Clause and
the Equal Protection Clause, the Fourteenth Amendment ensures
protection for all equal citizens of the Nation without regard to
race. Put succinctly, “[o]ur Constitution is
color-blind.” Plessy, 163 U. S., at 559 (Harlan,
J., dissenting).

															C

															In the period closely following the Fourteenth
Amendment’s ratification, Congress passed several statutes
designed to enforce its terms, eliminating government-based Black
Codes—systems of government-imposed segregation—and
criminalizing racially motivated violence. The marquee legislation
was the Civil Rights Act of 1875, ch. 114, 18Stat. 335–337,
and the justifications offered by proponents of that measure are
further evidence for the colorblind view of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

															The Civil Rights Act of 1875 sought to
counteract the systems of racial segregation that had arisen in the
wake of the Reconstruction era. Advocates of so-called
separate-but-equal systems, which allowed segregated facilities for
blacks and whites, had argued that laws permitting or requiring
such segregation treated members of both races precisely alike:
Blacks could not attend a white school, but symmetrically, whites
could not attend a black school. See Plessy, 163 U. S.,
at 544 (arguing that, in light of the social circumstances at the
time, racial segregation did not “necessarily imply the
inferiority of either race to the other”). Congress was not
persuaded. Supporters of the soon-to-be 1875 Act successfully
countered that symmetrical restrictions did not constitute
equality, and they did so on colorblind terms.

															For example, they asserted that “free
government demands the abolition of all distinctions founded on
color and race.” 2 Cong. Rec. 4083 (1874). And, they
submitted that “[t]he time has come when all distinctions
that grew out of slavery ought to disappear.” Cong. Globe,
42d Cong., 2d Sess., 3193 (1872) (“[A]s long as you have
distinctions and discriminations between white and black in the
enjoyment of legal rights and privileges[,] you will have
discontent and parties divided between black and white”).
Leading Republican Senator Charles Sumner compellingly argued that
“any rule excluding a man on account of his color is an
indignity, an insult, and a wrong.” Id., at 242; see
also ibid. (“I insist that by the law of the land all
persons without distinction of color shall be equal before the
law”). Far from conceding that segregation would be perceived
as inoffensive if race roles were reversed, he declared that
“[t]his is plain oppression, which you . . . would
feel keenly were it directed against you or your child.”
Id., at 384. He went on to paraphrase the English common-law
rule to which he subscribed: “[The law] makes no
discrimination on account of color.” Id., at 385.

															Others echoed this view. Representative John
Lynch declared that “[t]he duty of the law-maker is to know
no race, no color, no religion, no nationality, except to prevent
distinctions on any of these grounds, so far as the law is
concerned.” 3 Cong. Rec. 945 (1875). Senator John Sherman
believed that the route to peace was to “[w]ipe out all legal
discriminations between white and black [and] make no distinction
between black and white.” Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 2d Sess.,
at 3193. And, Senator Henry Wilson sought to “make illegal
all distinctions on account of color” because “there
should be no distinction recognized by the laws of the land.”
Id., at 819; see also 3 Cong. Rec., at 956 (statement of
Rep. Cain) (“[M]en [are] formed of God
equally . . . . The civil-rights bill simply
declares this: that there shall be no discriminations between
citizens of this land so far as the laws of the land are
concerned”). The view of the Legislature was clear: The
Constitution “neither knows nor tolerates classes among
citizens.” Plessy, 163 U. S., at 559 (Harlan, J.,
dissenting).

															D

															The earliest Supreme Court opinions to
interpret the Fourteenth Amendment did so in colorblind terms.
Their statements characterizing the Amendment evidence its
commitment to equal rights for all citizens, regardless of the
color of their skin. See ante, at 10–11.

															In the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36
(1873), the Court identified the “pervading purpose” of
the Reconstruction Amendments as “the freedom of the slave
race, the security and firm establishment of that freedom, and the
protection of the newly-made freeman and citizen from the
oppressions of those who had formerly exercised unlimited dominion
over him.” Id., at 67–72. Yet, the Court quickly
acknowledged that the language of the Amendments did not suggest
“that no one else but the negro can share in this
protection.” Id., at 72. Rather, “[i]f Mexican
peonage or the Chinese coolie labor system shall develop slavery of
the Mexican or Chinese race within our territory, [the Thirteenth
Amendment] may safely be trusted to make it void.”
Ibid. And, similarly, “if other rights are assailed by
the States which properly and necessarily fall within the
protection of these articles, that protection will apply, though
the party interested may not be of African descent.”
Ibid.

															The Court thus made clear that the Fourteenth
Amendment’s equality guarantee applied to members of
all races, including Asian Americans, ensuring all citizens
equal treatment under law.

															Seven years later, the Court relied on the
Slaughter-House view to conclude that “[t]he words of
the [Fourteenth A]mendment . . . contain a necessary
implication of a positive immunity, or right, most valuable to the
colored race,—the right to exemption from unfriendly
legislation against them distinctively as colored.”
Strauder v. West Virginia, 100
U.S. 303, 307–308 (1880). The Court thus found that the
Fourteenth Amendment banned “expres[s]” racial
classifications, no matter the race affected, because these
classifications are “a stimulant to . . . race
prejudice.” Id., at 308. See also ante, at
10–11. Similar statements appeared in other cases decided
around that time. See Virginia v. Rives, 100 U.S.
313, 318 (1880) (“The plain object of these statutes
[enacted to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment], as of the
Constitution which authorized them, was to place the colored race,
in respect of civil rights, upon a level with whites. They made the
rights and responsibilities, civil and criminal, of the two races
exactly the same”); Ex parte Virginia, 100 U.S.
339, 344–345 (1880) (“One great purpose of [the
Thirteenth and Fourteenth Amendments] was to raise the colored race
from that condition of inferiority and servitude in which most of
them had previously stood, into perfect equality of civil rights
with all other persons within the jurisdiction of the
States”).

															This Court’s view of the Fourteenth
Amendment reached its nadir in Plessy, infamously concluding
that the Fourteenth Amendment “could not have been intended
to abolish distinctions based upon color, or to enforce social, as
distinguished from political equality, or a commingling of the two
races upon terms unsatisfactory to either.” 163 U. S.,
at 544. That holding stood in sharp contrast to the Court’s
earlier embrace of the Fourteenth Amendment’s equality ideal,
as Justice Harlan emphasized in dissent: The Reconstruction
Amendments had aimed to remove “the race line from our
systems of governments.” Id., at 563. For
Justice Harlan, the Constitution was colorblind and categorically
rejected laws designed to protect “a dominant race—a
superior class of citizens,” while imposing a “badge of
servitude” on others. Id., at 560–562.

															History has vindicated Justice Harlan’s
view, and this Court recently acknowledged that Plessy
should have been overruled immediately because it “betrayed
our commitment to ‘equality before the
law.’ ” Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s
Health Organization, 597 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (slip op.,
at 44). Nonetheless, and despite Justice Harlan’s efforts,
the era of state-sanctioned segregation persisted for more than a
half century.

															E

															Despite the extensive evidence favoring the
colorblind view, as detailed above, it appears increasingly in
vogue to embrace an “antisubordination” view of the
Fourteenth Amendment: that the Amendment forbids only laws that
hurt, but not help, blacks. Such a theory lacks any basis in the
original meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment. Respondents cite a
smattering of federal and state statutes passed during the years
surrounding the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment. And,
Justice Sotomayor’s dissent argues that several of these
statutes evidence the ratifiers’ understanding that the Equal
Protection Clause “permits consideration of race to achieve
its goal.” Post, at 6. Upon examination, however, it
is clear that these statutes are fully consistent with the
colorblind view.

															Start with the 1865 Freedmen’s Bureau Act.
That Act established the Freedmen’s Bureau to issue
“provisions, clothing, and fuel . . . needful for
the immediate and temporary shelter and supply of destitute and
suffering refugees and freedmen and their wives and children”
and the setting “apart, for the use of loyal refugees and
freedmen,” abandoned, confiscated, or purchased lands, and
assigning “to every male citizen, whether refugee or
freedman, . . . not more than forty acres of such
land.” Ch. 90, §§2, 4, 13Stat. 507. The 1866
Freedmen’s Bureau Act then expanded upon the prior
year’s law, authorizing the Bureau to care for all loyal
refugees and freedmen. Ch. 200, 14Stat. 173–174. Importantly,
however, the Acts applied to freedmen (and refugees), a
formally race-neutral category, not blacks writ large. And, because
“not all blacks in the United States were former
slaves,” “ ‘freedman’ ” was
a decidedly under-inclusive proxy for race. M. Rappaport,
Originalism and the Colorblind Constitution, 89 Notre Dame
L. Rev. 71, 98 (2013) (Rappaport). Moreover, the
Freedmen’s Bureau served newly freed slaves alongside white
refugees. P. Moreno, Racial Classifications and Reconstruction
Legislation, 61 J. So. Hist. 271, 276–277 (1995); R. Barnett
& E. Bernick, The Original Meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment
119 (2021). And, advocates of the law explicitly disclaimed any
view rooted in modern conceptions of antisubordination. To the
contrary, they explicitly clarified that the equality sought by the
law was not one in which all men shall be “six feet
high”; rather, it strove to ensure that freedmen enjoy
“equal rights before the law” such that “each man
shall have the right to pursue in his own way life, liberty, and
happiness.” Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 322,
342.

															Several additional federal laws cited by
respondents appear to classify based on race, rather than previous
condition of servitude. For example, an 1866 law adopted special
rules and procedures for the payment of “colored”
servicemen in the Union Army to agents who helped them secure
bounties, pensions, and other payments that they were due. 14Stat.
367–368. At the time, however, Congress believed that many
“black servicemen were significantly overpaying for these
agents’ services in part because [the servicemen] did not
understand how the payment system operated.” Rappaport 110;
see also S. Siegel, The Federal Government’s Power To Enact
Color-Conscious Laws: An Originalist Inquiry, 92 Nw. U.
L. Rev. 477, 561 (1998). Thus, while this legislation appears
to have provided a discrete race-based benefit, its aim—to
prohibit race-based exploitation—may not have been possible
at the time without using a racial screen. In other words, the
statute’s racial classifications may well have survived
strict scrutiny. See Rappaport 111–112. Another law, passed
in 1867, provided funds for “freedmen or destitute colored
people” in the District of Columbia. Res. of Mar. 16, 1867,
No. 4, 15Stat. 20. However, when a prior version of this law
targeting only blacks was criticized for being racially
discriminatory, “it was defended on the grounds that there
were various places in the city where former slaves . . .
lived in densely populated shantytowns.” Rappaport
104–105 (citing Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 1507).
Congress thus may have enacted the measure not because of race, but
rather to address a special problem in shantytowns in the District
where blacks lived.

															These laws—even if targeting race as
such—likely were also constitutionally permissible examples
of Government action “undo[ing] the effects of past
discrimination in [a way] that do[es] not involve classification by
race,” even though they had “a racially
disproportionate impact.” Richmond v. J. A. Croson
Co., 488 U.S.
469, 526 (1989) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (internal
quotation marks omitted). The government can plainly remedy a
race-based injury that it has inflicted—though such remedies
must be meant to further a colorblind government, not perpetuate
racial consciousness. See id., at 505 (majority opinion). In
that way, “[r]ace-based government measures during the
1860’s and 1870’s to remedy state-enforced
slavery were . . . not inconsistent with the
colorblind Constitution.” Parents Involved, 551
U. S., at 772, n. 19 (Thomas, J., concurring). Moreover,
the very same Congress passed both these laws and the
unambiguously worded Civil Rights Act of 1866 that clearly
prohibited discrimination on the basis of race.[3] And, as noted above, the proponents of these
laws explicitly sought equal rights without regard to race while
disavowing any antisubordination view.

															Justice Sotomayor argues otherwise, pointing to
“a number of race-conscious” federal laws passed around
the time of the Fourteenth Amendment’s enactment.
Post, at 6 (dissenting opinion). She identifies the
Freedmen’s Bureau Act of 1865, already discussed above, as
one such law, but she admits that the programs did not benefit
blacks exclusively. She also does not dispute that legislation
targeting the needs of newly freed blacks in 1865 could be
understood as directly remedial. Even today, nothing prevents the
States from according an admissions preference to identified
victims of discrimination. See Croson, 488 U. S., at
526 (opinion of Scalia, J.) (“While most of the beneficiaries
might be black, neither the beneficiaries nor those disadvantaged
by the preference would be identified on the basis of their
race” (emphasis in original)); see also ante, at
39.

															Justice Sotomayor points also to the Civil
Rights Act of 1866, which as discussed above, mandated that all
citizens have the same rights as those “enjoyed by white
citizens.” 14Stat. 27. But these references to the station of
white citizens do not refute the view that the Fourteenth Amendment
is colorblind. Rather, they specify that, in meeting the
Amendment’s goal of equal citizenship, States must level up.
The Act did not single out a group of citizens for special
treatment—rather, all citizens were meant to be treated the
same as those who, at the time, had the full rights of citizenship.
Other provisions of the 1866 Act reinforce this view, providing for
equality in civil rights. See Rappaport 97. Most notably, §14
stated that the basic civil rights of citizenship shall be secured
“without respect to race or color.” 14Stat.
176–177. And, §8 required that funds from land sales
must be used to support schools “without distinction of color
or race, . . . in the parishes of ” the
area where the land had been sold. Id., at 175.

															In addition to these federal laws, Harvard also
points to two state laws: a South Carolina statute that placed the
burden of proof on the defendant when a “colored or
black” plaintiff claimed a violation, 1870 S. C. Acts
pp. 387–388, and Kentucky legislation that authorized a
county superintendent to aid “negro paupers” in Mercer
County, 1871 Ky. Acts pp. 273–274. Even if these
statutes provided race-based benefits, they do not support
respondents’ and Justice Sotomayor’s view that the
Fourteenth Amendment was contemporaneously understood to permit
differential treatment based on race, prohibiting only caste
legislation while authorizing antisubordination measures. Cf.,
e.g., O. Fiss, Groups and the Equal Protection Clause, 5
Philos. & Pub. Aff. 107, 147 (1976) (articulating the
antisubordination view); R. Siegel, Equality Talk:
Antisubordination and Anticlassification Values in Constitutional
Struggles Over Brown, 117 Harv. L. Rev. 1470, 1473,
n. 8 (2004) (collecting scholarship). At most, these laws
would support the kinds of discrete remedial measures that our
precedents have permitted.

															If services had been given only to white persons
up to the Fourteenth Amendment’s adoption, then providing
those same services only to previously excluded black persons would
work to equalize treatment against a concrete baseline of
government-imposed inequality. It thus may have been the case that
Kentucky’s county-specific, race-based public aid law was
necessary because that particular county was not providing certain
services to local poor blacks. Similarly, South Carolina’s
burden-shifting framework (where the substantive rule being applied
remained notably race neutral) may have been necessary to
streamline litigation around the most commonly litigated type of
case: a lawsuit seeking to remedy discrimination against a member
of the large population of recently freed black Americans. See 1870
S. C. Acts, at 386 (documenting “persist[ent]”
racial discrimination by state-licensed entities).

															Most importantly, however, there was a wide
range of federal and state statutes enacted at the time of the
Fourteenth Amendment’s adoption and during the period
thereafter that explicitly sought to discriminate against
blacks on the basis of race or a proxy for race. See Rappaport
113–115. These laws, hallmarks of the race-conscious Jim Crow
era, are precisely the sort of enactments that the Framers of the
Fourteenth Amendment sought to eradicate. Yet, proponents of an
antisubordination view necessarily do not take those laws as
evidence of the Fourteenth Amendment’s true meaning. And
rightly so. Neither those laws, nor a small number of laws that
appear to target blacks for preferred treatment, displace the
equality vision reflected in the history of the Fourteenth
Amendment’s enactment. This is particularly true in light of
the clear equality requirements present in the Fourteenth
Amendment’s text. See New York State Rifle & Pistol
Assn., Inc. v. Bruen, 597 U. S. ___,
___–___ (2022) (slip op., at 26–27) (noting that text
controls over inconsistent postratification history).

															II

															Properly understood, our precedents have
largely adhered to the Fourteenth Amendment’s demand for
colorblind laws.[4] That is
why, for example, courts “must subject all racial
classifications to the strictest of scrutiny.”
Jenkins, 515 U. S., at 121 (Thomas, J., concurring);
see also ante, at 15, n. 4 (emphasizing the
consequences of an insufficiently searching inquiry). And, in case
after case, we have employed strict scrutiny vigorously to reject
various forms of racial discrimination as unconstitutional. See
Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 317–318 (Thomas, J.,
concurring). The Court today rightly upholds that tradition and
acknowledges the consequences that have flowed from
Grutter’s contrary approach.

															Three aspects of today’s decision warrant
comment: First, to satisfy strict scrutiny, universities must be
able to establish an actual link between racial discrimination and
educational benefits. Second, those engaged in racial
discrimination do not deserve deference with respect to their
reasons for discriminating. Third, attempts to remedy past
governmental discrimination must be closely tailored to address
that particular past governmental discrimination.

															A

															To satisfy strict scrutiny, universities must
be able to establish a compelling reason to racially discriminate.
Grutter recognized “only one” interest
sufficiently compelling to justify race-conscious admissions
programs: the “educational benefits of a diverse student
body.” 539 U. S., at 328, 333. Expanding on this theme,
Harvard and UNC have offered a grab bag of interests to justify
their programs, spanning from “ ‘training future
leaders in the public and private sectors’ ” to
“ ‘enhancing appreciation, respect, and
empathy,’ ” with references to
“ ‘better educating [their] students through
diversity’ ” in between. Ante, at
22–23. The Court today finds that each of these interests are
too vague and immeasurable to suffice, ibid., and I
agree.

															Even in Grutter, the Court failed to
clearly define “the educational benefits of a diverse student
body.” 539 U. S., at 333. Thus, in the years since
Grutter, I have sought to understand exactly how racial
diversity yields educational benefits. With nearly 50 years
to develop their arguments, neither Harvard nor UNC—two of
the foremost research institutions in the world—nor any of
their amici can explain that critical link.

															Harvard, for example, offers a report finding
that meaningful representation of racial minorities promotes
several goals. Only one of those goals—“producing new
knowledge stemming from diverse outlooks,” 980 F.3d 157, 174
(CA1 2020)—bears any possible relationship to educational
benefits. Yet, it too is extremely vague and offers no indication
that, for example, student test scores increased as a result of
Harvard’s efforts toward racial diversity.

															More fundamentally, it is not clear how racial
diversity, as opposed to other forms of diversity, uniquely and
independently advances Harvard’s goal. This is particularly
true because Harvard blinds itself to other forms of applicant
diversity, such as religion. See 2 App. in No. 20–1199,
pp. 734–743. It may be the case that exposure to
different perspectives and thoughts can foster debate, sharpen
young minds, and hone students’ reasoning skills. But, it is
not clear how diversity with respect to race, qua race,
furthers this goal. Two white students, one from rural Appalachia
and one from a wealthy San Francisco suburb, may well have more
diverse outlooks on this metric than two students from
Manhattan’s Upper East Side attending its most elite schools,
one of whom is white and other of whom is black. If Harvard cannot
even explain the link between racial diversity and
education, then surely its interest in racial diversity cannot be
compelling enough to overcome the constitutional limits on race
consciousness.

															UNC fares no better. It asserts, for example, an
interest in training students to “live together in a diverse
society.” Brief for University Respondents in No.
21–707, p. 39. This may well be important to a
university experience, but it is a social goal, not an
educational one. See Grutter, 539 U. S., at
347–348 (Scalia, J., concurring in part and dissenting in
part) (criticizing similar rationales as divorced from educational
goals). And, again, UNC offers no reason why seeking a diverse
society would not be equally supported by admitting individuals
with diverse perspectives and backgrounds, rather than varying skin
pigmentation.

															Nor have amici pointed to any concrete
and quantifiable educational benefits of racial diversity.
The United States focuses on alleged civic benefits, including
“increasing tolerance and decreasing racial prejudice.”
Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 21–22. Yet,
when it comes to educational benefits, the Government offers only
one study purportedly showing that “college diversity
experiences are significantly and positively related to cognitive
development” and that “interpersonal interactions with
racial diversity are the most strongly related to cognitive
development.” N. Bowman, College Diversity Experiences and
Cognitive Development: A Meta-Analysis, 80 Rev. Educ. Research 4,
20 (2010). Here again, the link is, at best, tenuous, unspecific,
and stereotypical. Other amici assert that diversity
(generally) fosters the even-more nebulous values of
“creativity” and “innovation,” particularly
in graduates’ future workplaces. See, e.g., Brief for
Major American Business Enterprises as Amici Curiae
7–9; Brief for Massachusetts Institute of Technology et al.
as Amici Curiae 16–17 (describing experience at IBM).
Yet, none of those assertions deals exclusively with racial
diversity—as opposed to cultural or ideological diversity.
And, none of those amici demonstrate measurable or concrete
benefits that have resulted from universities’ race-conscious
admissions programs.

															Of course, even if these universities had shown
that racial diversity yielded any concrete or measurable benefits,
they would still face a very high bar to show that their interest
is compelling. To survive strict scrutiny, any such benefits would
have to outweigh the tremendous harm inflicted by sorting
individuals on the basis of race. See Cooper v.
Aaron, 358 U.S.
1, 16 (1958) (following Brown, “law and order are
not here to be preserved by depriving the Negro children of their
constitutional rights”). As the Court’s opinions in
these cases make clear, all racial stereotypes harm and demean
individuals. That is why “only those measures the State must
take to provide a bulwark against anarchy, or to prevent violence,
will constitute a pressing public necessity” sufficient to
satisfy strict scrutiny today. Grutter, 539
U. S., at 353 (opinion of Thomas, J.) (internal
quotations marks omitted). Cf. Lee v. Washington,
390 U.S.
333, 334 (1968) (Black, J., concurring) (protecting prisoners
from violence might justify narrowly tailored discrimination);
Croson, 488 U. S., at 521 (opinion of Scalia, J.)
(“At least where state or local action is at issue, only a
social emergency rising to the level of imminent danger to life and
limb . . . can justify [racial discrimination]”).
For this reason, “just as the alleged educational benefits of
segregation were insufficient to justify racial discrimination [in
the 1950s], see Brown v. Board of Education, the
alleged educational benefits of diversity cannot justify racial
discrimination today.” Fisher I, 570 U. S., at
320 (Thomas, J., concurring) (citation omitted).

															B

															The Court also correctly refuses to defer to
the universities’ own assessments that the alleged benefits
of race- conscious admissions programs are compelling. It instead
demands that the “interests [universities] view as
compelling” must be capable of being “subjected to
meaningful judicial review.” Ante, at 22. In other
words, a court must be able to measure the goals asserted and
determine when they have been reached. Ante, at 22–24.
The Court’s opinion today further insists that universities
must be able to “articulate a meaningful connection between
the means they employ and the goals they pursue.”
Ante, at 24. Again, I agree. Universities’
self-proclaimed righteousness does not afford them license to
discriminate on the basis of race.

															In fact, it is error for a court to defer to the
views of an alleged discriminator while assessing claims of racial
discrimination. See Grutter, 539 U. S., at
362–364 (opinion of Thomas, J.); see also Fisher I,
570 U. S., at 318–319 (Thomas, J., concurring);
United States v. Virginia, 518
U.S. 515, 551, n. 19 (1996) (refusing to defer to the
Virginia Military Institute’s judgment that the changes
necessary to accommodate the admission of women would be too great
and characterizing the necessary changes as
“manageable”). We would not offer such deference in any
other context. In employment discrimination lawsuits under Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act, for example, courts require only a
minimal prima facie showing by a complainant before shifting the
burden onto the shoulders of the alleged-discriminator employer.
See McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green, 411 U.S.
792, 803–805 (1973). And, Congress has passed numerous
laws—such as the Civil Rights Act of 1875—under its
authority to enforce the Fourteenth Amendment, each designed to
counter discrimination and each relying on courts to bring a
skeptical eye to alleged discriminators.

															This judicial skepticism is vital. History has
repeatedly shown that purportedly benign discrimination may be
pernicious, and discriminators may go to great lengths to hide and
perpetuate their unlawful conduct. Take, for example, the
university respondents here. Harvard’s “holistic”
admissions policy began in the 1920s when it was developed to
exclude Jews. See M. Synnott, The Half-Opened Door: Discrimination
and Admission at Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, 1900–1970,
pp. 58–59, 61, 69, 73–74 (2010). Based on de
facto quotas that Harvard quietly implemented, the proportion
of Jews in Harvard’s freshman class declined from 28% as late
as 1925 to just 12% by 1933. J. Karabel, The Chosen: The Hidden
History of Admission and Exclusion at Harvard, Yale, and Princeton
172 (2005). During this same period, Harvard played a prominent
role in the eugenics movement. According to then-President Abbott
Lawrence Lowell, excluding Jews from Harvard would help maintain
admissions opportunities for Gentiles and perpetuate the purity of
the Brahmin race—New England’s white, Protestant upper
crust. See D. Okrent, The Guarded Gate 309, and n. *
(2019).

															UNC also has a checkered history, dating back to
its time as a segregated university. It admitted its first black
undergraduate students in 1955—but only after being ordered
to do so by a court, following a long legal battle in which UNC
sought to keep its segregated status. Even then, UNC did not turn
on a dime: The first three black students admitted as
undergraduates enrolled at UNC but ultimately earned their
bachelor’s degrees elsewhere. See M. Beauregard, Column: The
Desegregation of UNC, The Daily Tar Heel, Feb. 16, 2022. To the
extent past is prologue, the university respondents’
histories hardly recommend them as trustworthy arbiters of whether
racial discrimination is necessary to achieve educational
goals.

															Of course, none of this should matter in any
event; courts have an independent duty to interpret and uphold the
Constitution that no university’s claimed interest may
override. See ante, at 26, n. 5. The Court today makes
clear that, in the future, universities wishing to discriminate
based on race in admissions must articulate and justify a
compelling and measurable state interest based on concrete
evidence. Given the strictures set out by the Court, I highly doubt
any will be able to do so.

															C

															In an effort to salvage their patently
unconstitutional programs, the universities and their amici
pivot to argue that the Fourteenth Amendment permits the use of
race to benefit only certain racial groups—rather than
applicants writ large. Yet, this is just the latest disguise for
discrimination. The sudden narrative shift is not surprising, as it
has long been apparent that “ ‘diversity [was]
merely the current rationale of convenience’ ” to
support racially discriminatory admissions programs.
Grutter, 539 U. S., at 393 (Kennedy, J., dissenting).
Under our precedents, this new rationale is also lacking.

															To start, the case for affirmative action has
emphasized a number of rationales over the years, including: (1)
restitution to compensate those who have been victimized by past
discrimination, (2) fostering “diversity,” (3)
facilitating “integration” and the destruction of
perceived racial castes, and (4) countering longstanding and
diffuse racial prejudice. See R. Kennedy, For Discrimination: Race,
Affirmative Action, and the Law 78 (2013); see also P. Schuck,
Affirmative Action: Past, Present, and Future, 20 Yale L. &
Pol’y Rev. 1, 22–46 (2002). Again, this Court has only
recognized one interest as compelling: the educational benefits of
diversity embraced in Grutter. Yet, as the universities
define the “diversity” that they practice, it
encompasses social and aesthetic goals far afield from the
education-based interest discussed in Grutter. See
supra, at 23. The dissents too attempt to stretch the
diversity rationale, suggesting that it supports broad remedial
interests. See, e.g., post, at 23, 43, 67 (opinion of
Sotomayor, J.) (noting that UNC’s black admissions
percentages “do not reflect the diversity of the
State”; equating the diversity interest under the
Court’s precedents with a goal of “integration in
higher education” more broadly; and warning of “the
dangerous consequences of an America where its leadership does not
reflect the diversity of the People”); post, at 23
(opinion of Jackson, J.) (explaining that diversity programs close
wealth gaps). But language—particularly the language of
controlling opinions of this Court—is not so elastic. See J.
Pieper, Abuse of Language—Abuse of Power 23 (L. Krauth
transl. 1992) (explaining that propaganda, “in contradiction
to the nature of language, intends not to communicate but to
manipulate” and becomes an “[i]nstrument of
power” (emphasis deleted)).

															The Court refuses to engage in this
lexicographic drift, seeing these arguments for what they are: a
remedial rationale in disguise. See ante, at 34–35. As
the Court points out, the interest for which respondents advocate
has been presented to and rejected by this Court many times before.
In Regents of University of California v. Bakke,
438 U.S.
265 (1978), the University of California made clear its
rationale for the quota system it had established: It wished to
“counteract effects of generations of pervasive
discrimination” against certain minority groups. Brief for
Petitioner, O. T. 1977, No. 76–811, p. 2. But, the
Court rejected this distinctly remedial rationale, with Justice
Powell adopting in its place the familiar “diversity”
interest that appeared later in Grutter. See Bakke,
438 U. S., at 306 (plurality opinion). The Court similarly did
not adopt the broad remedial rationale in Grutter; and it
rejects it again today. Newly and often minted theories cannot be
said to be commanded by our precedents.

															Indeed, our precedents have repeatedly and
soundly distinguished between programs designed to compensate
victims of past governmental discrimination from so-called benign
race-conscious measures, such as affirmative action. Croson,
488 U. S., at 504–505; Adarand Constructors,
Inc. v. Peña, 515 U.S.
200, 226–227 (1995). To enforce that distinction, our
precedents explicitly require that any attempt to compensate
victims of past governmental discrimination must be concrete and
traceable to the de jure segregated system, which must have
some discrete and continuing discriminatory effect that warrants a
present remedy. See United States v. Fordice,
505 U.S.
717, 731 (1992). Today’s opinion for the Court reaffirms
the need for such a close remedial fit, hewing to the same line we
have consistently drawn. Ante, at 24–25.

															Without such guardrails, the Fourteenth
Amendment would become self-defeating, promising a Nation based on
the equality ideal but yielding a quota- and caste-ridden society
steeped in race-based discrimination. Even Grutter itself
could not tolerate this outcome. It accordingly imposed a time
limit for its race-based regime, observing that
“ ‘a core purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment was
to do away with all governmentally imposed discrimination based on
race.’ ” 539 U. S., at 341–342 (quoting
Palmore v. Sidoti, 466 U.S.
429, 432 (1984); alterations omitted).

															The Court today enforces those limits. And
rightly so. As noted above, both Harvard and UNC have a history of
racial discrimination. But, neither have even attempted to explain
how their current racially discriminatory programs are even
remotely traceable to their past discriminatory conduct. Nor could
they; the current race-conscious admissions programs take no
account of ancestry and, at least for Harvard, likely have the
effect of discriminating against some of the very same ethnic
groups against which Harvard previously discriminated (i.e.,
Jews and those who are not part of the white elite). All the while,
Harvard and UNC ask us to blind ourselves to the burdens imposed on
the millions of innocent applicants denied admission because of
their membership in a currently disfavored race.

															The Constitution neither commands nor permits
such a result. “Purchased at the price of immeasurable human
suffering,” the Fourteenth Amendment recognizes that
classifications based on race lead to ruinous consequences for
individuals and the Nation. Adarand Constructors,
Inc., 515 U. S., at 240 (Thomas, J., concurring in part
and concurring in judgment). Consequently, “all”
racial classifications are “inherently suspect,”
id., at 223–224 (majority opinion) (emphasis added;
internal quotation marks omitted), and must be subjected to the
searching inquiry conducted by the Court, ante, at
21–34.

															III

															Both experience and logic have vindicated the
Constitution’s colorblind rule and confirmed that the
universities’ new narrative cannot stand. Despite the
Court’s hope in Grutter that universities would
voluntarily end their race-conscious programs and further the goal
of racial equality, the opposite appears increasingly true. Harvard
and UNC now forthrightly state that they racially discriminate when
it comes to admitting students, arguing that such discrimination is
consistent with this Court’s precedents. And they, along with
today’s dissenters, defend that discrimination as
good. More broadly, it is becoming increasingly clear that
discrimination on the basis of race—often packaged as
“affirmative action” or “equity”
programs—are based on the benighted notion “that it is
possible to tell when discrimination helps, rather than hurts,
racial minorities.” Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 328
(Thomas, J., concurring).

															We cannot be guided by those who would desire
less in our Constitution, or by those who would desire more.
“The Constitution abhors classifications based on race, not
only because those classifications can harm favored races or are
based on illegitimate motives, but also because every time the
government places citizens on racial registers and makes race
relevant to the provision of burdens or benefits, it demeans us
all.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 353 (opinion of
Thomas, J.).

															A

															The Constitution’s colorblind rule
reflects one of the core principles upon which our Nation was
founded: that “all men are created equal.” Those words
featured prominently in our Declaration of Independence and were
inspired by a rich tradition of political thinkers, from Locke to
Montesquieu, who considered equality to be the foundation of a just
government. See, e.g., J. Locke, Second Treatise of Civil
Government 48 (J. Gough ed. 1948); T. Hobbes, Leviathan 98 (M.
Oakeshott ed. 1962); 1 B. Montesquieu, The Spirit of Laws 121 (T.
Nugent transl., J. Prichard ed. 1914). Several Constitutions
enacted by the newly independent States at the founding reflected
this principle. For example, the Virginia Bill of Rights of 1776
explicitly affirmed “[t]hat all men are by nature equally
free and independent, and have certain inherent rights.” Ch.
1, §1. The State Constitutions of Massachusetts, Pennsylvania,
and New Hampshire adopted similar language. Pa. Const., Art. I
(1776), in 2 Federal and State Constitutions 1541 (P. Poore ed.
1877); Mass. Const., Art. I (1780), in 1 id., at 957;
N. H. Const., Art. I (1784), in 2 id., at
1280.[5] And, prominent
Founders publicly mused about the need for equality as the
foundation for government. E.g., 1 Cong. Register 430 (T.
Lloyd ed. 1789) (Madison, J.); 1 Letters and Other Writings of
James Madison 164 (J. Lippincott ed. 1867); N. Webster, The
Revolution in France, in 2 Political Sermons of the Founding Era,
1730–1805, pp. 1236–1299 (1998). As Jefferson
declared in his first inaugural address, “the minority
possess their equal rights, which equal law must protect.”
First Inaugural Address (Mar. 4, 1801), in 8 The Writings of Thomas
Jefferson 4 (Washington ed. 1854).

															Our Nation did not initially live up to the
equality principle. The institution of slavery persisted for nearly
a century, and the United States Constitution itself included
several provisions acknowledging the practice. The period leading
up to our second founding brought these flaws into bold relief and
encouraged the Nation to finally make good on the equality promise.
As Lincoln recognized, the promise of equality extended to all
people—including immigrants and blacks whose ancestors
had taken no part in the original founding. See Speech at Chicago,
Ill. (July 10, 1858), in 2 The Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln
488–489, 499 (R. Basler ed. 1953). Thus, in Lincoln’s
view, “ ‘the natural rights enumerated in the
Declaration of Independence’ ” extended to blacks
as his “ ‘equal,’ ” and
“ ‘the equal of every living
man.’ ” The Lincoln-Douglas Debates 285 (H. Holzer
ed. 1993).

															As discussed above, the Fourteenth Amendment
reflected that vision, affirming that equality and racial
discrimination cannot coexist. Under that Amendment, the color of a
person’s skin is irrelevant to that individual’s equal
status as a citizen of this Nation. To treat him differently on the
basis of such a legally irrelevant trait is therefore a deviation
from the equality principle and a constitutional injury.

															Of course, even the promise of the second
founding took time to materialize. Seeking to perpetuate a
segregationist system in the wake of the Fourteenth
Amendment’s ratification, proponents urged a “separate
but equal” regime. They met with initial success, ossifying
the segregationist view for over a half century. As this Court said
in Plessy:

															“A statute which implies merely a
legal distinction between the white and colored races—a
distinction which is founded in the color of the two races, and
which must always exist so long as white men are distinguished from
the other race by color—has no tendency to destroy the legal
equality of the two races, or reestablish a state of involuntary
servitude.” 163 U. S., at 543.

															Such a statement, of course, is precisely
antithetical to the notion that all men, regardless of the color of
their skin, are born equal and must be treated equally under the
law. Only one Member of the Court adhered to the equality
principle; Justice Harlan, standing alone in dissent, wrote:
“Our constitution is color-blind, and neither knows nor
tolerates classes among citizens. In respect of civil rights, all
citizens are equal before the law.” Id., at 559.
Though Justice Harlan rightly predicted that Plessy would,
“in time, prove to be quite as pernicious as the decision
made . . . in the Dred Scott case,” the
Plessy rule persisted for over a half century. Ibid.
While it remained in force, Jim Crow laws prohibiting blacks from
entering or utilizing public facilities such as schools, libraries,
restaurants, and theaters sprang up across the South.

															This Court rightly reversed course in
Brown v. Board of Education. The Brown
appellants—those challenging segregated
schools—embraced the equality principle, arguing that
“[a] racial criterion is a constitutional irrelevance, and is
not saved from condemnation even though dictated by a sincere
desire to avoid the possibility of violence or race
friction.” Brief for Appellants in Brown v. Board
of Education, O. T. 1952, No. 1, p. 7 (citation
omitted).[6] Embracing that
view, the Court held that “in the field of public education
the doctrine of ‘separate but equal’ has no
place” and “[s]eparate educational facilities are
inherently unequal.” Brown, 347 U. S., at 493,
495. Importantly, in reaching this conclusion, Brown did not
rely on the particular qualities of the Kansas schools. The mere
separation of students on the basis of race—the
“segregation complained of,” id., at 495
(emphasis added)—constituted a constitutional injury. See
ante, at 12 (“Separate cannot be equal”).

															Just a few years later, the Court’s
application of Brown made explicit what was already
forcefully implied: “[O]ur decisions have foreclosed any
possible contention that . . . a statute or
regulation” fostering segregation in public facilities
“may stand consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment.”
Turner v. Memphis, 369 U.S.
350, 353 (1962) (per curiam); cf. A. Blaustein & C.
Ferguson, Desegregation and the Law: The Meaning and Effect of the
School Segregation Cases 145 (rev. 2d ed. 1962) (arguing that the
Court in Brown had “adopt[ed] a constitutional
standard” declaring “that all classification by race is
unconstitutional per se”).

															Today, our precedents place this principle
beyond question. In assessing racial segregation during a race-
motivated prison riot, for example, this Court applied strict
scrutiny without requiring an allegation of unequal treatment among
the segregated facilities. Johnson v. California,
543 U.S.
499, 505–506 (2005). The Court today reaffirms the rule,
stating that, following Brown, “[t]he time for making
distinctions based on race had passed.” Ante, at 13.
“What was wrong” when the Court decided Brown
“in 1954 cannot be right today.” Parents
Involved, 551 U. S., at 778 (Thomas, J., concurring).
Rather, we must adhere to the promise of equality under the law
declared by the Declaration of Independence and codified by the
Fourteenth Amendment.

															B

															Respondents and the dissents argue that the
universities’ race-conscious admissions programs ought to be
permitted because they accomplish positive social goals. I would
have thought that history had by now taught a “greater
humility” when attempting to “distinguish good from
harmful uses of racial criteria.” Id., at 742
(plurality opinion). From the Black Codes, to discriminatory and
destructive social welfare programs, to discrimination by
individual government actors, bigotry has reared its ugly head time
and again. Anyone who today thinks that some form of racial
discrimination will prove “helpful” should thus tread
cautiously, lest racial discriminators succeed (as they once did)
in using such language to disguise more invidious motives.

															Arguments for the benefits of race-based
solutions have proved pernicious in segregationist circles.
Segregated universities once argued that race-based discrimination
was needed “to preserve harmony and peace and at the same
time furnish equal education to both groups.” Brief for
Respondents in Sweatt v. Painter, O. T. 1949,
No. 44, p. 94; see also id., at 79
(“ ‘[T]he mores of racial relationships are
such as to rule out, for the present at least, any possibility of
admitting white persons and Negroes to the same
institutions’ ”). And, parties consistently
attempted to convince the Court that the time was not right to
disrupt segregationist systems. See Brief for Appellees in
McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Ed.,
O. T. 1949, No. 34, p. 12 (claiming that a holding
rejecting separate but equal would “necessarily result
. . . [i]n the abandoning of many of the
state’s existing educational establishments” and the
“crowding of other such establishments”); Brief
for State of Kansas on Reargument in Brown v. Board of
Education, O. T. 1953, No. 1, p. 56 (“We grant
that segregation may not be the ethical or political ideal. At the
same time we recognize that practical considerations may prevent
realization of the ideal”); Tr. of Oral Arg. in Davis
v. School Bd. of Prince Edward Cty., O. T. 1954, No. 3,
p. 208 (“We are up against the proposition: What does
the Negro profit if he procures an immediate detailed decree from
this Court now and then impairs or mars or destroys the public
school system in Prince Edward County”). Litigants have even
gone so far as to offer straight-faced arguments that segregation
has practical benefits. Brief for Respondents in Sweatt v.
Painter, at 77–78 (requesting deference to a state
law, observing that “ ‘the necessity for such
separation [of the races] still exists in the interest of public
welfare, safety, harmony, health, and recreation
. . .’ ” and remarking on the
reasonableness of the position); Brief for Appellees in
Davis v. County School Bd. of Prince Edward
Cty., O. T. 1952, No. 3, p. 17 (“Virginia has
established segregation in certain fields as a part of her public
policy to prevent violence and reduce resentment. The result, in
the view of an overwhelming Virginia majority, has been to improve
the relationship between the different races”); id.,
at 25 (“If segregation be stricken down, the general welfare
will be definitely harmed . . . there would be more
friction developed” (internal quotation marks omitted)). In
fact, slaveholders once “argued that slavery was a
‘positive good’ that civilized blacks and elevated them
in every dimension of life,” and “segregationists
similarly asserted that segregation was not only benign, but good
for black students.” Fisher I, 570 U. S., at
328–329 (Thomas, J., concurring).

															“Indeed, if our history has taught us
anything, it has taught us to beware of elites bearing racial
theories.” Parents Involved, 551 U. S., at
780–781 (Thomas, J., concurring). We cannot now blink
reality to pretend, as the dissents urge, that affirmative action
should be legally permissible merely because the experts assure us
that it is “good” for black students. Though I do not
doubt the sincerity of my dissenting colleagues’ beliefs,
experts and elites have been wrong before—and they may prove
to be wrong again. In part for this reason, the Fourteenth
Amendment outlaws government-sanctioned racial discrimination of
all types. The stakes are simply too high to gamble.[7] Then, as now, the views that motivated
Dred Scott and Plessy have not been confined to the
past, and we must remain ever vigilant against all forms of
racial discrimination.

															C

															Even taking the desire to help on its face,
what initially seems like aid may in reality be a burden, including
for the very people it seeks to assist. Take, for example, the
college admissions policies here. “Affirmative action”
policies do nothing to increase the overall number of blacks and
Hispanics able to access a college education. Rather, those racial
policies simply redistribute individuals among institutions of
higher learning, placing some into more competitive institutions
than they otherwise would have attended. See T. Sowell, Affirmative
Action Around the World 145–146 (2004). In doing so, those
policies sort at least some blacks and Hispanics into environments
where they are less likely to succeed academically relative to
their peers. Ibid. The resulting mismatch places “many
blacks and Hispanics who likely would have excelled at less elite
schools . . . in a position where underperformance is all
but inevitable because they are less academically prepared than the
white and Asian students with whom they must compete.”
Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 332 (Thomas, J.,
concurring).

															It is self-evident why that is so. As anyone who
has labored over an algebra textbook has undoubtedly discovered,
academic advancement results from hard work and practice, not mere
declaration. Simply treating students as though their grades put
them at the top of their high school classes does nothing to
enhance the performance level of those students or otherwise
prepare them for competitive college environments. In fact, studies
suggest that large racial preferences for black and Hispanic
applicants have led to a disproportionately large share of those
students receiving mediocre or poor grades once they arrive in
competitive collegiate environments. See, e.g., R. Sander, A
Systemic Analysis of Affirmative Action in American Law Schools, 57
Stan. L. Rev. 367, 371–372 (2004); see also R. Sander
& R. Steinbuch, Mismatch and Bar Passage: A School-Specific
Analysis (Oct. 6, 2017), https://ssrn.com/ abstract=3054208. Take
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields,
for example. Those students who receive a large admissions
preference are more likely to drop out of STEM fields than
similarly situated students who did not receive such a preference.
F. Smith & J. McArdle, Ethnic and Gender Differences in Science
Graduation at Selective Colleges With Implications for Admission
Policy and College Choice, 45 Research in Higher Ed. 353 (2004).
“Even if most minority students are able to meet the normal
standards at the ‘average’ range of colleges and
universities, the systematic mismatching of minority students begun
at the top can mean that such students are generally overmatched
throughout all levels of higher education.” T. Sowell, Race
and Culture 176–177 (1994).[8]

															These policies may harm even those who succeed
academically. I have long believed that large racial preferences in
college admissions “stamp [blacks and Hispanics] with a badge
of inferiority.” Adarand, 515 U. S., at 241
(opinion of Thomas, J.). They thus “tain[t] the
accomplishments of all those who are admitted as a result of racial
discrimination” as well as “all those who are the same
race as those admitted as a result of racial discrimination”
because “no one can distinguish those students from the ones
whose race played a role in their admission.” Fisher
I, 570 U. S., at 333 (opinion of Thomas, J.).
Consequently, “[w]hen blacks” and, now, Hispanics
“take positions in the highest places of government,
industry, or academia, it is an open question . . .
whether their skin color played a part in their advancement.”
Grutter, 539 U. S., at 373 (Thomas, J., concurring).
“The question itself is the stigma—because either
racial discrimination did play a role, in which case the person may
be deemed ‘otherwise unqualified,’ or it did not, in
which case asking the question itself unfairly marks those
. . . who would succeed without discrimination.”
Ibid.

															Yet, in the face of those problems, it seems
increasingly clear that universities are focused on
“aesthetic” solutions unlikely to help deserving
members of minority groups. In fact, universities’
affirmative action programs are a particularly poor use of such
resources. To start, these programs are overinclusive, providing
the same admissions bump to a wealthy black applicant given every
advantage in life as to a black applicant from a poor family with
seemingly insurmountable barriers to overcome. In doing so, the
programs may wind up helping the most well-off members of minority
races without meaningfully assisting those who struggle with real
hardship. Simultaneously, the programs risk continuing to ignore
the academic underperformance of “the purported
‘beneficiaries’ ” of racial preferences and
the racial stigma that those preferences generate. Grutter,
539 U. S., at 371 (opinion of Thomas, J.). Rather than
performing their academic mission, universities thus may
“see[k] only a facade—it is sufficient that the class
looks right, even if it does not perform right.” Id.,
at 372.

															D

															Finally, it is not even theoretically possible
to “help” a certain racial group without causing harm
to members of other racial groups. “It should be obvious that
every racial classification helps, in a narrow sense, some races
and hurts others.” Adarand, 515 U. S., at 241,
n. * (opinion of Thomas, J.). And, even purportedly benign
race-based discrimination has secondary effects on members of other
races. The antisubordination view thus has never guided the
Court’s analysis because “whether a law relying upon
racial taxonomy is ‘benign’ or ‘malign’
either turns on ‘whose ox is gored’ or on distinctions
found only in the eye of the beholder.” Ibid.
(citations and some internal quotation marks omitted). Courts are
not suited to the impossible task of determining which racially
discriminatory programs are helping which members of which
races—and whether those benefits outweigh the burdens thrust
onto other racial groups.

															As the Court’s opinion today explains, the
zero-sum nature of college admissions—where students compete
for a finite number of seats in each school’s entering
class—aptly demonstrates the point. Ante, at
27.[9] Petitioner here
represents Asian Americans who allege that, at the margins, Asian
applicants were denied admission because of their race. Yet, Asian
Americans can hardly be described as the beneficiaries of
historical racial advantages. To the contrary, our Nation’s
first immigration ban targeted the Chinese, in part, based on
“worker resentment of the low wage rates accepted by Chinese
workers.” U. S. Commission on Civil Rights, Civil Rights
Issues Facing Asian Americans in the 1990s, p. 3 (1992) (Civil
Rights Issues); Act of May 6, 1882, ch. 126, 22Stat.
58–59.

															In subsequent years, “strong anti-Asian
sentiments in the Western States led to the adoption of many
discriminatory laws at the State and local levels, similar to those
aimed at blacks in the South,” and “segregation in
public facilities, including schools, was quite common until after
the Second World War.” Civil Rights Issues 7; see also S.
Hinnershitz, A Different Shade of Justice: Asian American Civil
Rights in the South 21 (2017) (explaining that while both Asians
and blacks have at times fought “against similar forms of
discrimination,” “[t]he issues of citizenship and
immigrant status often defined Asian American battles for civil
rights and separated them from African American legal
battles”). Indeed, this Court even sanctioned this
segregation—in the context of schools, no less. In Gong
Lum v. Rice, 275 U.S.
78, 81–82, 85–87 (1927), the Court held that a
9-year-old Chinese-American girl could be denied entry to a
“white” school because she was “a member of the
Mongolian or yellow race.”

															Also, following the Japanese attack on the
U. S. Navy base at Pearl Harbor, Japanese Americans in the
American West were evacuated and interned in relocation camps. See
Exec. Order No. 9066, 3 CFR 1092 (1943). Over 120,000 were removed
to camps beginning in 1942, and the last camp that held Japanese
Americans did not close until 1948. National Park Service, Japanese
American Life During Internment,
www.nps.gov/articles/japanese-american-internment-archeology.htm.
In the interim, this Court endorsed the practice. Korematsu
v. United States, 323 U.S.
214 (1944).

															Given the history of discrimination against
Asian Americans, especially their history with segregated schools,
it seems particularly incongruous to suggest that a past history of
segregationist policies toward blacks should be remedied at the
expense of Asian American college applicants.[10] But this problem is not limited to Asian
Americans; more broadly, universities’ discriminatory
policies burden millions of applicants who are not responsible for
the racial discrimination that sullied our Nation’s past.
That is why, “[i]n the absence of special circumstances, the
remedy for de jure segregation ordinarily should not
include educational programs for students who were not in school
(or even alive) during the period of segregation.”
Jenkins, 515 U. S., at 137 (Thomas, J., concurring).
Today’s 17-year-olds, after all, did not live through the Jim
Crow era, enact or enforce segregation laws, or take any action to
oppress or enslave the victims of the past. Whatever their skin
color, today’s youth simply are not responsible for
instituting the segregation of the 20th century, and they do not
shoulder the moral debts of their ancestors. Our Nation should not
punish today’s youth for the sins of the past.

															IV

															Far from advancing the cause of improved race
relations in our Nation, affirmative action highlights our racial
differences with pernicious effect. In fact, recent history reveals
a disturbing pattern: Affirmative action policies appear to have
prolonged the asserted need for racial discrimination. Parties and
amici in these cases report that, in the nearly 50 years
since Bakke, 438 U.S.
265, racial progress on campuses adopting affirmative action
admissions policies has stagnated, including making no meaningful
progress toward a colorblind goal since Grutter. See
ante, at 21–22. Rather, the legacy of Grutter
appears to be ever increasing and strident demands for yet
more racially oriented solutions.

															A

															It has become clear that sorting by race does
not stop at the admissions office. In his Grutter opinion,
Justice Scalia criticized universities for “talk[ing] of
multiculturalism and racial diversity,” but supporting
“tribalism and racial segregation on their campuses,”
including through “minority only student organizations,
separate minority housing opportunities, separate minority student
centers, even separate minority-only graduation ceremonies.”
539 U. S., at 349 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting
in part). This trend has hardly abated with time, and today, such
programs are commonplace. See Brief for Gail Heriot et al. as
Amici Curiae 9. In fact, a recent study considering 173
schools found that 43% of colleges offered segregated housing to
students of different races, 46% offered segregated orientation
programs, and 72% sponsored segregated graduation ceremonies. D.
Pierre & P. Wood, Neo-Segregation at Yale 16–17 (2019);
see also D. Pierre, Demands for Segregated Housing at Williams
College Are Not News, Nat. Rev., May 8, 2019. In addition to
contradicting the universities’ claims regarding the need for
interracial interaction, see Brief for National Association of
Scholars as Amicus Curiae 4–12, these trends
increasingly encourage our Nation’s youth to view racial
differences as important and segregation as routine.

															Meanwhile, these discriminatory policies risk
creating new prejudices and allowing old ones to fester. I
previously observed that “[t]here can be no doubt” that
discriminatory affirmative action policies “injur[e] white
and Asian applicants who are denied admission because of their
race.” Fisher I, 570 U. S., at 331 (concurring
opinion). Petitioner here clearly demonstrates this fact. Moreover,
“no social science has disproved the notion that this
discrimination ‘engenders attitudes of superiority or,
alternatively, provokes resentment among those who believe that
they have been wronged by the government’s use of
race.’ ” Grutter, 539 U. S., at 373
(opinion of Thomas, J.) (quoting Adarand, 515 U. S., at
241 (opinion of Thomas, J.) (alterations omitted)). Applicants
denied admission to certain colleges may come to
believe—accurately or not—that their race was
responsible for their failure to attain a life-long dream. These
individuals, and others who wished for their success, may resent
members of what they perceive to be favored races, believing that
the successes of those individuals are unearned.

															What, then, would be the endpoint of these
affirmative action policies? Not racial harmony, integration, or
equality under the law. Rather, these policies appear to be leading
to a world in which everyone is defined by their skin color,
demanding ever-increasing entitlements and preferences on that
basis. Not only is that exactly the kind of factionalism
that the Constitution was meant to safeguard against, see The
Federalist No. 10 (J. Madison), but it is a factionalism based on
ever-shifting sands.

															That is because race is a social construct; we
may each identify as members of particular races for any number of
reasons, having to do with our skin color, our heritage, or our
cultural identity. And, over time, these ephemeral, socially
constructed categories have often shifted. For example, whereas
universities today would group all white applicants together, white
elites previously sought to exclude Jews and other white immigrant
groups from higher education. In fact, it is impossible to look at
an individual and know definitively his or her race; some who would
consider themselves black, for example, may be quite fair skinned.
Yet, university admissions policies ask individuals to identify
themselves as belonging to one of only a few reductionist racial
groups. With boxes for only “black,”
“white,” “Hispanic,” “Asian,”
or the ambiguous “other,” how is a Middle Eastern
person to choose? Someone from the Philippines? See post, at
5–7 (Gorsuch, J., concurring). Whichever choice he makes (in
the event he chooses to report a race at all), the form silos him
into an artificial category. Worse, it sends a clear signal that
the category matters.

															But, under our Constitution, race is irrelevant,
as the Court acknowledges. In fact, all racial categories are
little more than stereotypes, suggesting that immutable
characteristics somehow conclusively determine a person’s
ideology, beliefs, and abilities. Of course, that is false. See
ante, at 28–30 (noting that the Court’s Equal
Protection Clause jurisprudence forbids such stereotyping). Members
of the same race do not all share the exact same experiences and
viewpoints; far from it. A black person from rural Alabama surely
has different experiences than a black person from Manhattan or a
black first-generation immigrant from Nigeria, in the same way that
a white person from rural Vermont has a different perspective than
a white person from Houston, Texas. Yet, universities’ racial
policies suggest that racial identity “alone constitutes
the being of the race or the man.” J. Barzun, Race: A
Study in Modern Superstition 114 (1937). That is the same naked
racism upon which segregation itself was built. Small wonder, then,
that these policies are leading to increasing racial polarization
and friction. This kind of reductionist logic leads directly to the
“disregard for what does not jibe with preconceived
theory,” providing a “cloa[k] to conceal complexity,
argumen[t] to the crown for praising or damning without the trouble
of going into details”—such as details about an
individual’s ideas or unique background. Ibid. Rather
than forming a more pluralistic society, these policies thus strip
us of our individuality and undermine the very diversity of thought
that universities purport to seek.

															The solution to our Nation’s racial
problems thus cannot come from policies grounded in affirmative
action or some other conception of equity. Racialism simply cannot
be undone by different or more racialism. Instead, the solution
announced in the second founding is incorporated in our
Constitution: that we are all equal, and should be treated equally
before the law without regard to our race. Only that promise can
allow us to look past our differing skin colors and identities and
see each other for what we truly are: individuals with unique
thoughts, perspectives, and goals, but with equal dignity and equal
rights under the law.

															B

															Justice Jackson has a different view. Rather
than focusing on individuals as individuals, her dissent focuses on
the historical subjugation of black Americans, invoking statistical
racial gaps to argue in favor of defining and categorizing
individuals by their race. As she sees things, we are all
inexorably trapped in a fundamentally racist society, with the
original sin of slavery and the historical subjugation of black
Americans still determining our lives today. Post, at
1–26 (dissenting opinion). The panacea, she counsels, is to
unquestioningly accede to the view of elite experts and reallocate
society’s riches by racial means as necessary to “level
the playing field,” all as judged by racial metrics.
Post, at 26. I strongly disagree.

															First, as stated above, any statistical gaps
between the average wealth of black and white Americans is
constitutionally irrelevant. I, of course, agree that our society
is not, and has never been, colorblind. Post, at 2 (Jackson,
J., dissenting); see also Plessy, 163 U. S., at 559
(Harlan, J., dissenting). People discriminate against one another
for a whole host of reasons. But, under the Fourteenth Amendment,
the law must disregard all racial distinctions:

															“[I]n view of the constitution, in
the eye of the law, there is in this country no superior, dominant,
ruling class of citizens. There is no caste here. Our constitution
is color-blind, and neither knows nor tolerates classes among
citizens. In respect of civil rights, all citizens are equal before
the law. The humblest is the peer of the most powerful. The law
regards man as man, and takes no account of his surroundings or of
his color when his civil rights as guaranteed by the supreme law of
the land are involved.” Ibid.

															With the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment,
the people of our Nation proclaimed that the law may not sort
citizens based on race. It is this principle that the Framers of
the Fourteenth Amendment adopted in the wake of the Civil War to
fulfill the promise of equality under the law. And it is this
principle that has guaranteed a Nation of equal citizens the
privileges or immunities of citizenship and the equal protection of
the laws. To now dismiss it as “two-dimensional
flatness,” post, at 25 (Jackson, J., dissenting), is
to abdicate a sacred trust to ensure that our “honored dead
. . . shall not have died in vain.” A. Lincoln,
Gettysburg Address (1863).

															Yet, Justice Jackson would replace the second
Founders’ vision with an organizing principle based on race.
In fact, on her view, almost all of life’s outcomes may be
unhesitatingly ascribed to race. Post, at 24–26. This
is so, she writes, because of statistical disparities among
different racial groups. See post, at 11–14. Even if
some whites have a lower household net worth than some blacks, what
matters to Justice Jackson is that the average white
household has more wealth than the average black household.
Post, at 11.

															This lore is not and has never been true. Even
in the segregated South where I grew up, individuals were not the
sum of their skin color. Then as now, not all disparities are based
on race; not all people are racist; and not all differences between
individuals are ascribable to race. Put simply, “the fate of
abstract categories of wealth statistics is not the same as the
fate of a given set of flesh-and-blood human beings.” T.
Sowell, Wealth, Poverty and Politics 333 (2016). Worse still,
Justice Jackson uses her broad observations about statistical
relationships between race and select measures of health, wealth,
and well-being to label all blacks as victims. Her desire to do so
is unfathomable to me. I cannot deny the great accomplishments of
black Americans, including those who succeeded despite long
odds.

															Nor do Justice Jackson’s statistics
regarding a correlation between levels of health, wealth, and
well-being between selected racial groups prove anything. Of
course, none of those statistics are capable of drawing a direct
causal link between race—rather than socioeconomic status or
any other factor—and individual outcomes. So Justice Jackson
supplies the link herself: the legacy of slavery and the nature of
inherited wealth. This, she claims, locks blacks into a seemingly
perpetual inferior caste. Such a view is irrational; it is an
insult to individual achievement and cancerous to young minds
seeking to push through barriers, rather than consign themselves to
permanent victimhood. If an applicant has less financial means
(because of generational inheritance or otherwise), then surely a
university may take that into account. If an applicant has medical
struggles or a family member with medical concerns, a university
may consider that too. What it cannot do is use the
applicant’s skin color as a heuristic, assuming that because
the applicant checks the box for “black” he therefore
conforms to the university’s monolithic and reductionist view
of an abstract, average black person.

															Accordingly, Justice Jackson’s
race-infused world view falls flat at each step. Individuals are
the sum of their unique experiences, challenges, and
accomplishments. What matters is not the barriers they face, but
how they choose to confront them. And their race is not to blame
for everything—good or bad—that happens in their lives.
A contrary, myopic world view based on individuals’ skin
color to the total exclusion of their personal choices is nothing
short of racial determinism.

															Justice Jackson then builds from her faulty
premise to call for action, arguing that courts should defer to
“experts” and allow institutions to discriminate on the
basis of race. Make no mistake: Her dissent is not a vanguard of
the innocent and helpless. It is instead a call to empower
privileged elites, who will “tell us [what] is required to
level the playing field” among castes and classifications
that they alone can divine. Post, at 26; see also
post, at 5–7 (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (explaining the
arbitrariness of these classifications). Then, after siloing us all
into racial castes and pitting those castes against each other, the
dissent somehow believes that we will be able—at some
undefined point—to “march forward together” into
some utopian vision. Post, at 26 (opinion of
Jackson, J.). Social movements that invoke these sorts of
rallying cries, historically, have ended disastrously.

															Unsurprisingly, this tried-and-failed system
defies both law and reason. Start with the obvious: If social
reorganization in the name of equality may be justified by the mere
fact of statistical disparities among racial groups, then that
reorganization must continue until these disparities are fully
eliminated, regardless of the reasons for the disparities and the
cost of their elimination. If blacks fail a test at higher rates
than their white counterparts (regardless of whether the reason for
the disparity has anything at all to do with race), the only
solution will be race-focused measures. If those measures were to
result in blacks failing at yet higher rates, the only solution
would be to double down. In fact, there would seem to be no logical
limit to what the government may do to level the racial playing
field—outright wealth transfers, quota systems, and racial
preferences would all seem permissible. In such a system, it would
not matter how many innocents suffer race-based injuries; all that
would matter is reaching the race-based goal.

															Worse, the classifications that Justice Jackson
draws are themselves race-based stereotypes. She focuses on two
hypothetical applicants, John and James, competing for admission to
UNC. John is a white, seventh-generation legacy at the school,
while James is black and would be the first in his family to attend
UNC. Post, at 3. Justice Jackson argues that race-conscious
admission programs are necessary to adequately compare the two
applicants. As an initial matter, it is not clear why James’s
race is the only factor that could encourage UNC to admit him; his
status as a first-generation college applicant seems to
contextualize his application. But, setting that aside, why is it
that John should be judged based on the actions of his
great-great-great-grandparents? And what would Justice Jackson say
to John when deeming him not as worthy of admission: Some
statistically significant number of white people had advantages in
college admissions seven generations ago, and you have inherited
their incurable sin?

															Nor should we accept that John or James
represent all members of their respective races. All racial groups
are heterogeneous, and blacks are no exception—encompassing
northerners and southerners, rich and poor, and recent immigrants
and descendants of slaves. See, e.g., T. Sowell, Ethnic
America 220 (1981) (noting that the great success of West Indian
immigrants to the United States—disproportionate among blacks
more broadly—“seriously undermines the proposition that
color is a fatal handicap in the American economy”).
Eschewing the complexity that comes with individuality may make for
an uncomplicated narrative, but lumping people together and judging
them based on assumed inherited or ancestral traits is nothing but
stereotyping.[11]

															To further illustrate, let’s expand the
applicant pool beyond John and James. Consider Jack, a black
applicant and the son of a multimillionaire industrialist. In a
world of race-based preferences, James’ seat could very well
go to Jack rather than John—both are black, after all. And
what about members of the numerous other racial and ethnic groups
in our Nation? What about Anne, the child of Chinese immigrants?
Jacob, the grandchild of Holocaust survivors who escaped to this
Nation with nothing and faced discrimination upon arrival? Or
Thomas, the great- grandchild of Irish immigrants escaping famine?
While articulating her black and white world (literally), Justice
Jackson ignores the experiences of other immigrant groups (like
Asians, see supra, at 43–44) and white communities
that have faced historic barriers.

															Though Justice Jackson seems to think that her
race-based theory can somehow benefit everyone, it is an immutable
fact that “every time the government uses racial criteria to
‘bring the races together,’ someone gets excluded, and
the person excluded suffers an injury solely because of his or her
race.” Parents Involved, 551 U. S., at 759
(Thomas, J., concurring) (citation omitted). Indeed, Justice
Jackson seems to have no response—no explanation at
all—for the people who will shoulder that burden. How, for
example, would Justice Jackson explain the need for race-based
preferences to the Chinese student who has worked hard his whole
life, only to be denied college admission in part because of his
skin color? If such a burden would seem difficult to impose on a
bright-eyed young person, that’s because it should be.
History has taught us to abhor theories that call for elites to
pick racial winners and losers in the name of sociological
experimentation.

															Nor is it clear what another few generations of
race- conscious college admissions may be expected to accomplish.
Even today, affirmative action programs that offer an admissions
boost to black and Hispanic students discriminate against those who
identify themselves as members of other races that do not receive
such preferential treatment. Must others in the future make
sacrifices to re-level the playing field for this new phase of
racial subordination? And then, out of whose lives should the debt
owed to those further victims be repaid? This vision of meeting
social racism with government-imposed racism is thus
self-defeating, resulting in a never-ending cycle of victimization.
There is no reason to continue down that path. In the wake of the
Civil War, the Framers of the Fourteenth Amendment charted a way
out: a colorblind Constitution that requires the government to, at
long last, put aside its citizens’ skin color and focus on
their individual achievements.

															C

															Universities’ recent experiences confirm
the efficacy of a colorblind rule. To start, universities
prohibited from engaging in racial discrimination by state law
continue to enroll racially diverse classes by race-neutral means.
For example, the University of California purportedly recently
admitted its “most diverse undergraduate class ever,”
despite California’s ban on racial preferences. T. Watanabe,
UC Admits Largest, Most Diverse Class Ever, But It Was Harder To
Get Accepted, L. A. Times, July 20, 2021, p. A1.
Similarly, the University of Michigan’s 2021 incoming class
was “among the university’s most racially and
ethnically diverse classes, with 37% of first-year students
identifying as persons of color.” S. Dodge, Largest Ever
Student Body at University of Michigan This Fall, Officials Say,
MLive.com (Oct. 22, 2021), https://www.mlive.com/news/ann-arbor/
2021/10/largest-ever-student-body-at-university-of-michigan-
this-fall-officials-say.html. In fact, at least one set of studies
suggests that, “when we consider the higher education system
as a whole, it is clear that the vast majority of schools would be
as racially integrated, or more racially integrated, under a system
of no preferences than under a system of large preferences.”
Brief for Richard Sander as Amicus Curiae 26. Race-neutral
policies may thus achieve the same benefits of racial harmony and
equality without any of the burdens and strife generated by
affirmative action policies.

															In fact, meritocratic systems have long refuted
bigoted misperceptions of what black students can accomplish. I
have always viewed “higher education’s purpose as
imparting knowledge and skills to students, rather than a communal,
rubber-stamp, credentialing process.” Grutter, 539
U. S., at 371–372 (opinion concurring in part and
dissenting in part). And, I continue to strongly believe (and have
never doubted) that “blacks can achieve in every avenue of
American life without the meddling of university
administrators.” Id., at 350. Meritocratic systems,
with objective grading scales, are critical to that belief. Such
scales have always been a great equalizer—offering a metric
for achievement that bigotry could not alter. Racial preferences
take away this benefit, eliminating the very metric by which those
who have the most to prove can clearly demonstrate their
accomplishments—both to themselves and to others.

															Schools’ successes, like students’
grades, also provide objective proof of ability. Historically Black
Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) do not have a large amount of
racial diversity, but they demonstrate a marked ability to improve
the lives of their students. To this day, they have proved
“to be extremely effective in educating Black students,
particularly in STEM,” where “HBCUs represent seven of
the top eight institutions that graduate the highest number of
Black undergraduate students who go on to earn [science and
engineering] doctorates.” W. Wondwossen, The Science Behind
HBCU Success, Nat. Science Foundation (Sept. 24, 2020),
https://beta.nsf.gov/science-matters/science-behind-hbcu-success.
“HBCUs have produced 40% of all Black engineers.”
Presidential Proclamation No. 10451, 87 Fed. Reg. 57567 (2022).
And, they “account for 80% of Black judges, 50% of Black
doctors, and 50% of Black lawyers.” M. Hammond, L. Owens,
& B. Gulko, Social Mobility Outcomes for HBCU Alumni, United
Negro College Fund 4 (2021) (Hammond),
https://cdn.uncf.org/wp-content/uploads/
Social-Mobility-Report-FINAL.pdf; see also 87 Fed. Reg. 57567
(placing the percentage of black doctors even higher, at 70%). In
fact, Xavier University, an HBCU with only a small percentage of
white students, has had better success at helping its low-income
students move into the middle class than Harvard has. See Hammond
14; see also Brief for Oklahoma et al. as Amici Curiae
18. And, each of the top 10 HBCUs have a success rate above the
national average. Hammond 14.[12]

															Why, then, would this Court need to allow other
universities to racially discriminate? Not for the betterment of
those black students, it would seem. The hard work of HBCUs and
their students demonstrate that “black schools can function
as the center and symbol of black communities, and provide examples
of independent black leadership, success, and achievement.”
Jenkins, 515 U. S., at 122 (Thomas, J., concurring)
(citing Fordice, 505 U. S., at 748 (Thomas, J.,
concurring)). And, because race-conscious college admissions are
plainly not necessary to serve even the interests of blacks, there
is no justification to compel such programs more broadly. See
Parents Involved, 551 U. S., at 765 (Thomas, J.,
concurring).

															*  *  *

															The great failure of this country was slavery
and its progeny. And, the tragic failure of this Court was its
misinterpretation of the Reconstruction Amendments, as Justice
Harlan predicted in Plessy. We should not repeat this
mistake merely because we think, as our predecessors thought, that
the present arrangements are superior to the Constitution.

															The Court’s opinion rightly makes clear
that Grutter is, for all intents and purposes, overruled.
And, it sees the universities’ admissions policies for what
they are: rudderless, race-based preferences designed to ensure a
particular racial mix in their entering classes. Those policies fly
in the face of our colorblind Constitution and our Nation’s
equality ideal. In short, they are plainly—and
boldly—unconstitutional. See Brown II, 349
U. S., at 298 (noting that the Brown case one year
earlier had “declare[d] the fundamental principle that racial
discrimination in public education is unconstitutional”).

															While I am painfully aware of the social and
economic ravages which have befallen my race and all who suffer
discrimination, I hold out enduring hope that this country will
live up to its principles so clearly enunciated in the Declaration
of Independence and the Constitution of the United States: that all
men are created equal, are equal citizens, and must be treated
equally before the law.

Notes
1
 In fact, Indians would
not be considered citizens until several decades later. Indian
Citizenship Act of 1924, ch. 233, 43Stat. 253 (declaring that all
Indians born in the United States are citizens).
2
 There is “some
support” in the history of enactment for at least “four
interpretations of the first section of the proposed amendment, and
in particular of its Privileges [or] Immunities Clause: it would
authorize Congress to enforce the Privileges and Immunities Clause
of Article IV; it would forbid discrimination between citizens with
respect to fundamental rights; it would establish a set of basic
rights that all citizens must enjoy; and it would make the Bill of
Rights applicable to the states.” D. Currie, The
Reconstruction Congress, 75 U. Chi. L. Rev. 383, 406 (2008)
(citing sources). Notably, those four interpretations are all
colorblind.
3
 UNC asserts that the
Freedmen’s Bureau gave money to Berea College at a time when
the school sought to achieve a 50–50 ratio of black to white
students. Brief for University Respondents in No. 21–707,
p. 32. But, evidence suggests that, at the relevant time,
Berea conducted its admissions without distinction by race. S.
Wilson, Berea College: An Illustrated History 2 (2006) (quoting
Berea’s first president’s statement that the school
“would welcome ‘all races of men, without
distinction’ ”).
4
 The Court has remarked
that Title VI is coextensive with the Equal Protection Clause. See
Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U.S.
244, 276, n. 23 (2003) (“We have explained that
discrimination that violates the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment committed by an institution that accepts
federal funds also constitutes a violation of Title VI”);
Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U.S.
265, 287 (1978) (opinion of Powell, J.) (“Title VI
. . . proscribe[s] only those racial classifications that
would violate the Equal Protection Clause”). As Justice
Gorsuch points out, the language of Title VI makes no allowance for
racial considerations in university admissions. See post, at
2–3 (concurring opinion). Though I continue to adhere to my
view in Bostock v. Clayton County, 590 U. S.
___, ___–___ (2020) (Alito, J., dissenting) (slip op., at
1–54), I agree with Justice Gorsuch’s concurrence in
this case. The plain text of Title VI reinforces the colorblind
view of the Fourteenth Amendment.
5
 In fact, the
Massachusetts Supreme Court in 1783 declared that slavery was
abolished in Massachusetts by virtue of the newly enacted
Constitution’s provision of equality under the law. See
The Quock Walker Case, in 1 H. Commager, Documents of
American History 110 (9th ed. 1973) (Cushing, C. J.)
(“[W]hatever sentiments have formerly prevailed in this
particular or slid in upon us by the example of others, a different
idea has taken place with the people of America, more favorable to
the natural rights of mankind, and to that natural, innate desire
of Liberty . . . . And upon this ground our
Constitution of Government . . . sets out with declaring
that all men are born free and equal . . . and in short
is totally repugnant to the idea of being born
slaves”).
6
 Briefing in a case
consolidated with Brown stated the colorblind position
forthrightly: Classifications “[b]ased [s]olely on [r]ace or
[c]olor” “can never be” constitutional. Juris.
Statement in Briggs v. Elliott, O. T. 1951, No.
273, pp. 20–21, 25, 29; see also Juris. Statement in
Davis v. County School Bd. of Prince Edward Cty.,
O. T. 1952, No. 191, p. 8 (“Indeed, we take the
unqualified position that the Fourteenth Amendment has totally
stripped the state of power to make race and color the basis for
governmental action. . . . For this reason alone, we
submit, the state separate school laws in this case must
fall”).
7
 Indeed, the lawyers who
litigated Brown were unwilling to take this bet, insisting
on a colorblind legal rule. See, e.g., Supp. Brief for
Appellants on Reargument in Nos. 1, 2, and 4, and for Respondents
in No. 10, in Brown v. Board of Education, O. T.
1953, p. 65 (“That the Constitution is color blind is
our dedicated belief ”); Brief for Appellants in
Brown v. Board of Education, O. T. 1952, No. 1,
p. 5 (“The Fourteenth Amendment precludes a state from
imposing distinctions or classifications based upon race and color
alone”). In fact, Justice Marshall viewed Justice
Harlan’s Plessy dissent as “a
‘Bible’ to which he turned during his most depressed
moments”; no opinion “buoyed Marshall more in his
pre-Brown days.” In Memoriam: Honorable Thurgood
Marshall, Proceedings of the Bar and Officers of the Supreme Court
of the United States, p. X (1993) (remarks of Judge
Motley).
8
 Justice Sotomayor rejects
this mismatch theory as “debunked long ago,” citing an
amicus brief. Post, at 56. But, in 2016, the Journal
of Economic Literature published a review of mismatch
literature—coauthored by a critic and a defender of
affirmative action—which concluded that the evidence for
mismatch was “fairly convincing.” P. Arcidiacono &
M. Lovenheim, Affirmative Action and the Quality-Fit Tradeoff, 54
J. Econ. Lit. 3, 20 (Arcidiacono & Lovenheim). And, of course,
if universities wish to refute the mismatch theory, they need only
release the data necessary to test its accuracy. See Brief for
Richard Sander as Amicus Curiae 16–19 (noting that
universities have been unwilling to provide the necessary data
concerning student admissions and outcomes); accord, Arcidiacono
& Lovenheim 20 (“Our hope is that better datasets soon
will become available”).
9
 Justice Sotomayor
apparently believes that race-conscious admission programs can
somehow increase the chances that members of certain races (blacks
and Hispanics) are admitted without decreasing the chances of
admission for members of other races (Asians). See post, at
58–59. This simply defies mathematics. In a zero-sum game
like college admissions, any sorting mechanism that takes race into
account in any way, see post, at 27 (opinion of Jackson, J.)
(defending such a system), has discriminated based on race to the
benefit of some races and the detriment of others. And, the
universities here admit that race is determinative in at least some
of their admissions decisions. See, e.g., Tr. of Oral Arg.
in No. 20–1199, at 67; 567 F. Supp. 3d 580, 633 (MDNC
2021); see also 397 F. Supp. 3d 126, 178 (Mass. 2019) (noting
that, for Harvard, “race is a determinative tip for” a
significant percentage “of all admitted African American and
Hispanic applicants”); ante, at 5, n. 1
(describing the role that race plays in the universities’
admissions processes).
10  Even
beyond Asian Americans, it is abundantly clear that the university
respondents’ racial categories are vastly oversimplistic, as
the opinion of the Court and Justice Gorsuch’s concurrence
make clear. See ante, at 24–25; post, at
5–7 (opinion of Gorsuch, J.). Their “affirmative
action” programs do not help Jewish, Irish, Polish, or other
“white” ethnic groups whose ancestors faced
discrimination upon arrival in America, any more than they help the
descendants of those Japanese-American citizens interned during
World War II.
11  Again, universities may offer
admissions preferences to students from disadvantaged backgrounds,
and they need not withhold those preferences from students who
happen to be members of racial minorities. Universities may not,
however, assume that all members of certain racial minorities are
disadvantaged.
12  Such
black achievement in “racially isolated” environments
is neither new nor isolated to higher education. See T. Sowell,
Education: Assumptions Versus History 7–38 (1986). As I have
previously observed, in the years preceding Brown, the
“most prominent example of an exemplary black school was
Dunbar High School,” America’s first public high school
for black students. Parents Involved in Community Schools v.
Seattle School Dist. No. 1, 551 U.S.
701, 763 (2007) (concurring opinion). Known for its academics,
the school attracted black students from across the Washington,
D. C., area. “[I]n the period 1918–1923, Dunbar
graduates earned fifteen degrees from Ivy League colleges, and ten
degrees from Amherst, Williams, and Wesleyan.” Sowell,
Education: Assumptions Versus History, at 29. Dunbar produced the
first black General in the U. S. Army, the first black Federal
Court Judge, and the first black Presidential Cabinet member. A.
Stewart, First Class: The Legacy of Dunbar 2 (2013). Indeed,
efforts towards racial integration ultimately precipitated the
school’s decline. When the D. C. schools moved to a
neighborhood-based admissions model, Dunbar was no longer able to
maintain its prior admissions policies—and “[m]ore than
80 years of quality education came to an abrupt end.” T.
Sowell, Wealth, Poverty and Politics 194 (2016).


