::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-046
::decision_cite:: 20-1410
::decision_name::  Ruan v. United States
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 20–1410 and 21–5261

															_________________

															XIULU RUAN, PETITIONER

															20–1410v.

															UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															

															SHAKEEL KAHN, PETITIONER

															21–5261v.

															UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit

															[June 27, 2022]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas joins, and with whom Justice Barrett joins as to Parts I–A, I–B, and II, concurring in the judgment.

															In criminal law, the distinction between the elements of an offense and an affirmative defense is well-known and important.  In these cases, however, the Court recognizes a new hybrid that has some characteristics of an element and some characteristics of an affirmative defense.  The consequences of this innovation are hard to foresee, but the result may well be confusion and disruption.  That risk is entirely unnecessary.

															We granted certiorari in these cases to decide whether a physician may be convicted of dispensing or distributing drugs by prescription under a provision of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 (CSA),

21 U. S. C. §841(a), if he or she believed in good faith that the prescription was within the course of professional practice.  In my view, there is a straightforward answer to this question.  The CSA contains an exception for prescriptions issued in the course of professional practice, and this exception is a carry-over from the CSA’s predecessor, the Harrison Narcotics Act of 1914,

38Stat.
785.  In interpreting the Harrison Act, this Court held that a registered physician acts “in the course of his professional practice” when the physician writes prescriptions “in good faith.” Linder v. United States,

268 U.S. 5, 17–18 (1925).  I would hold that this rule applies under the CSA and would therefore vacate the judgments below and remand for further proceedings.

															The Court declines to adopt this approach and instead takes a radical new course.  It holds that the mental state expressed by the terms “knowingly or intentionally” in §841(a) applies to the provision’s “[e]xcept as authorized” proviso.  It bases this conclusion not on anything in the language of the CSA, but instead on the “presumption, traceable to the common law, that Congress intends to require a defendant to possess a culpable mental state.”  Rehaif v. United States, 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 3).

															The Court’s analysis rests on an obvious conceptual mistake. A culpable mental state—or, to use the traditional Latin term, “mens rea”—is the mental state an accused must have in relation to the elements of an offense.  But the authorizations in the CSA that excuse acts that are otherwise unlawful under §841(a) are not elements of the offenses created by that provision.  They are affirmative  defenses.  The presumption that elements must be accompanied by a culpable mental state—which I will call “the mens rea canon”—provides no guidance on what a defendant must prove to establish an affirmative defense.  And for that reason, that canon does not help to decide whether there is a good-faith defense in §841(a) prosecutions of physicians.

															The Court does not claim that the “[e]xcept as authorized” proviso actually constitutes an element of dispensing or distributing a controlled substance.  But it concludes, based on a vague four-part test, that the proviso is “sufficiently like an element in respect to the matter at issue here as to warrant similar treatment.”  Ante, at 12.  How many other affirmative defenses might warrant similar treatment, the Court does not say.  It leaves prosecutors, defense attorneys, and the lower courts in the dark.  I cannot accept this cavalier treatment of an important question.

															Nor can I accept the Court’s conclusion that once a defendant produces evidence that his or her conduct was “authorized,” “the Government must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant knowingly or intentionally acted in an unauthorized manner.”  Ante, at 5.  We did not grant certiorari on the question of the burden of proof applicable to authorizations to dispense or distribute controlled substances.  No party has briefed this issue, and its resolution is not essential to our decision in these cases.  In keeping with our normal practice, I would not address this question.  But because the Court volunteers its own answer, I will offer one as well.  As I see it, the text of the CSA does not show that Congress intended to deviate from the common-law rule that the burden of proving “affirmative defenses—indeed, ‘all . . . circumstances of justification, excuse or alleviation’—rest[s] on the defendant.”  Patterson v. New York,

432 U.S. 197, 202 (1977) (quoting 4 W. Blackstone Commentaries *201).  And absolutely nothing in the text of the statute indicates that Congress intended to impose a burden on the Government to disprove all assertions of authorization beyond a reasonable doubt.

															I

															A

															As relevant here, §841(a)(1) provides that “except as authorized by this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any per-son knowingly or intentionally . . . to manufacture, distribute, or dispense, or possess with intent to manufacture, distribute, or dispense, . . . a controlled substance.”  According to the Court’s reasoning, the terms “knowingly or intentionally” in §841(a)(1) apply to the “except as authorized” proviso at the beginning of the provision.  But it is hard to see how this could be true.

															As a matter of elementary syntax, the adverbs “knowingly” and “intentionally” are most naturally understood to modify the verbs that follow, i.e., “manufacture,” “distribute,” etc., and not the introductory phrase “except as authorized.”  That phrase, in turn, clearly modifies the term “unlawful.”

															The Court does not suggest otherwise. It does not claim that “knowingly or “intentionally” modifies the introductory proviso in a grammatical sense.  (If it did, the introductory phrase would clearly be an element, and for reasons that I will explain, infra, at 5–6,

21 U. S. C. §885 unmistakably rules that out.)  Instead, the Court pointedly uses different terminology.  It repeatedly says that the phrase “knowingly or intentionally” “applies” to the introductory phrase, ante, at 2, 4, 6, 9, 15 (emphasis added).  And it reaches this conclusion based on grounds that have nothing to do with grammar or syntax.

															Specifically, the Court relies on a substantive canon of interpretation—the mens rea canon.  Under this canon, the Court interprets criminal statutes to require a mens rea for each element of an offense “even where ‘the most grammatical reading of the statute’ does not support” that interpretation. Rehaif, 588 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6) (quoting United States v. X-Citement Video, Inc.,

513 U.S. 64, 70 (1994)).[1]*  But until today, this canon has been applied only to elements, and the “except as authorized” introductory phrase in §841(a)(1) is plainly not an element.

															“The definition of the elements of a criminal offense is entrusted to the legislature, particularly in the case of federal crimes, which are solely creatures of statute.”  Liparota v. United States,

471 U.S. 419, 424 (1985).  See also Dixon v. United States,

548 U.S. 1, 7 (2006).  But authorization to dispense or distribute a controlled substance lacks the most basic features of an element of an offense.  For one thing, it is black-letter law that an indictment must allege “the elements of the offense charged.”  Hamling v. United States,

418 U.S. 87, 117 (1974).  So if lack of authorization were an element, it would be necessary to allege that in every §841(a)(1) indictment.  But §885 says that it is not “necessary for the United States to negative any exemption or exception set forth in [the relevant subchapter] in any . . . indictment.”  Beyond that, the prosecution bears the burden of producing evidence with respect to every element of a crime.  Patterson, 432 U. S., at 215.  But §885(a)(1) also provides that “the burden of going forward with the evidence with respect to any such exemption or exception shall be upon the person claiming its benefit.”  It could hardly be more obvious that Congress did not cast the “except as authorized” introductory proviso as an element of distributing or dispensing a controlled substance.

															Instead, that proviso clearly creates an affirmative defense—that is, a “justification or excuse which is a bar to the imposition of criminal liability” on conduct that satisfies the elements of an offense.  1 W. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law §1.8(c) (3d ed. 2018).  Section 841(a)(1) has two main parts: a principal clause generally prohibiting “knowingly or intentionally” doing certain things with respect to controlled substances (i.e., manufacturing them, distributing them, etc.), and a proviso indicating that these acts are unlawful “except as authorized” by other statutory provisions.  As we have long held, the default rule for interpreting provisions with this structure is that “ ‘an exception made by a proviso or other distinct clause’ ” designates an affirmative defense that the Government has no duty to “ ‘negative.’ ”  Dixon, 548 U. S., at 13 (quoting McKelvey v. United States,

260 U.S. 353, 357 (1922)); see also United States v. Dickson, 15 Pet. 141, 165 (1841) (calling this “the general rule of law which has always prevailed”).  When this rule applies, it is “ ‘incumbent on one who relies on such an exception to set it up and establish it.’ ”  Dixon, 548 U. S., at 13 (quoting McKelvey, 260 U. S., at 357).

															The CSA explicitly incorporates this default rule.  As noted, §885(a)(1) provides that the prosecution need not “negative any exemption or exception set forth in this subchapter in any complaint, information, indictment, or other pleading or in any trial, hearing, or other proceeding.” (Emphasis added.)  Short of using the words “affirmative defense,” there is no clearer way of indicating that authorization constitutes an affirmative defense.

															On the most natural reading, then, §841(a)(1) creates an offense that has as its elements (1) knowingly or intentionally (2) distributing or dispensing (3) a controlled substance.  The “[e]xcept as authorized” proviso recognizes an affirmative defense that excuses or justifies conduct that otherwise would fall within §841(a)(1)’s general prohibition.  The mens rea canon does not speak to the constituents of that defense.

															B

															While the Court does not claim that the “[e]xcept as authorized” proviso is an element of a §841(a)(1) offense, the Court argues that the proviso is “sufficiently like an element in respect to the matter at issue here” for the mens rea canon to apply, ante, at 12.  The Court provides four reasons for this conclusion: “[T]he language of §841 (which explicitly includes a ‘knowingly or intentionally’ provision); the crucial role authorization (or lack thereof ) plays in distinguishing morally blameworthy conduct from socially necessary conduct; the serious nature of the crime and its penalties; and the vague, highly general language of the regulation defining the bounds of prescribing authority.”  Ibid.  Not one of these reasons withstands scrutiny.

															“[T]he language of §841.”  The Court notes that this provision expressly sets out a mens rea that applies to the elements of the offense, ante, at 13, but the vast majority of criminal statutes share this characteristic.  Therefore, this feature does not set §841 apart.

															“[T]he crucial role authorization (or lack thereof ) plays in distinguishing morally blameworthy conduct from socially necessary conduct.”  The Court claims that authorization separates out morally blameworthy innocent conduct; but something very similar may be said about most, if not all, affirmative defenses.  Take the common-law defense of duress.  Duress “excuse[s] criminal conduct where the actor was under an unlawful threat of imminent death or serious bodily injury” and the “threat caused the actor to engage in conduct violating the literal terms of the criminal law.”  United States v. Bailey,

444 U.S. 394, 409 (1980).  But a person who acts under duress is not “morally blameworthy”—that is part of what it means to say that duress excuses otherwise-criminal conduct.  Similarly, individuals who kill or wound another person in self-defense to prevent their own death or serious injury are not considered morally blameworthy.  No one supposes that these defenses are hybrids, or that the mens rea canon is a guide to their content.

															It is unclear why the Court thinks that §841(a)’s affirmative defense is different.  There are hints in the Court’s opinion that it has crafted a special rule for doctors—for example, the Court describes their conduct in writing prescriptions as not just “innocent,” but “socially beneficial” and “socially necessary.”  Ante, at 6, 12.  But §841(a) is not a doctor-specific provision.  Section 841(a)’s proviso presumably applies in the same way for all §841(a) defendants—whether they are drug dealers accused of selling heroin or are physicians charged with abusing their authority to prescribe painkillers.

															“[T]he serious nature of the crime and its penalties.”  The Court also suggests that authorization is “like an element” because dispensing or distributing a controlled substance is a felony that carries a substantial sentence.  But would all felonies qualify?  If not, where would the Court draw the line?  The Court provides no answers.

															“[T]he vague, highly general language of the regulation defining prescribing authority.”  As the Court explains, the regulation defining the authority of physicians to prescribe controlled substances allows them to issue a prescription “for a legitimate medical purpose . . . in the usual course of . . . professional practice.”  21 CFR §1306.04(a) (2021).  But §841(a) applies to many other types of violations and many other categories of defendants.  Is the proviso a hybrid element/defense only for doctors?  Would its status change if the regulation were reframed in more specific terms?  How can the status of a phrase in a statute depend upon an implementing regulation?  The Court provides no answer to these or any other questions naturally raised by its ipse dixit that the exception in §841(a) is “sufficiently like” an element to require that it be treated as such in some respects but not others.

															C

															The Court also errs in holding that, if a §841(a)(1) defendant “meets the burden of producing evidence that his or her conduct was ‘authorized,’ ” the Government has the burden to “prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant knowingly or intentionally acted in an unauthorized manner,” ante, at 5.  As noted, the common-law rule was that the defendant had the burden of production and persuasion on any affirmative defense.  And the Court has held that when Congress does not address the burden of proof in the text of a statute, “we presume that Congress intended to preserve the common-law rule.”  Smith v. United States,

568 U.S. 106, 112 (2013); see also Dixon, 548 U. S., at 13–14.

															The Court identifies one and only one reason for deviating from this background rule—the fact that §885(a)(1) states that “the burden of going forward with the evidence with respect to any . . . exemption or exception shall be upon the person claiming its benefit.”  Because this provision does not say expressly that a defendant also has the burden of persuasion, the Court infers that Congress meant to allocate that burden to the prosecution.  That inference is unwarranted.  Section 885(a)(1) explicitly relieves the Government of the burden of “negativ[ing]” exceptions “in any trial.”  And it is hard to see how the Government does not have the burden to “negative” exceptions if it must affirmatively disprove a prima facie case of authorization any time a defendant satisfies the initial burden of production.

															But even if one credits the majority’s assumption that the CSA partly deviates from the common-law rule by shifting the burden of persuasion to the Government, the majority’s further holding that the Government must carry that burden with proof “beyond a reasonable doubt” comes out of thin air.  The usual rule is that affirmative defenses must be proved “by a preponderance of the evidence.”  Id., at 17.  But the majority does not identify a single word in §§841(a)(1), 885(a)(1), or any other provision of the CSA that even suggests that the statute imposes a burden of disproving authorization defenses beyond a reasonable doubt.

															The only thing that could conceivably justify reading a reasonable-doubt requirement into a statute that says nothing on the subject is the principle that an ambiguous statute must be interpreted, when possible, to avoid unconstitutionality.  See A. Scalia & B. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 247–251 (2012).  But the Court does not claim that it would be unconstitutional for Congress to require the Government to prove lack of authorization by only a preponderance of the evidence.  Indeed, the Court does not even claim that it would be unconstitutional to shift the burden of persuasion to the defendant.  Nor could it.  Our precedents establish that governments are “foreclosed from shifting the burden of proof to the defendant only ‘when an affirmative defense . . . negate[s] an element of the crime.’ ”  Smith, 568 U. S., at 110 (quoting Martin v. Ohio,

480 U.S. 228, 237 (1987) (Powell, J., dissenting)).  And we have held that when an affirmative defense instead justifies or “ ‘excuse[s] conduct that would otherwise be punishable,’ ” the “Government has no constitutional duty to overcome the defense beyond a reasonable doubt.”  568 U. S., at 110 (quoting Dixon, 548 U. S., at 6).

															The authorization defense made available to prescribing physicians by the CSA plainly does not negate any of the defining elements of dispensing or distributing a controlled substance in violation of §841(a)(1).  As a result, the Court has no basis for reading a requirement to disprove authorization into the CSA.  And at a minimum, even if the Government must bear the ultimate burden of persuasion once the burden of production is satisfied, the CSA should be read to preserve a traditional preponderance-of-the- evidence standard for authorization defenses.

															II

															My analysis thus far establishes that authorization is an affirmative defense to liability under §841(a)(1), and the constituents of that defense cannot be identified through brute-force application of a canon designed to identify the elements of an offense.  In my view, the contours of that defense can be elucidated only by examining the text, structure, and history of the provisions of the CSA that define it.  I turn to that task now.

															The authorization relied on by the petitioners in these cases permits physicians registered with the federal Drug Enforcement Administration to prescribe controlled substances to patients by prescription.  §§822(b), 823(f ), 829(a).  As we have previously interpreted it, this authorization does not allow physicians to dispense controlled substances by prescription for any reason they choose; instead, the authorization “is limited to the dispensing and use of drugs ‘in the course of professional practice or research.’ ”  United States v. Moore,

423 U.S. 122, 141 (1975) (quoting §802(20) (1970 ed.)).

															The notion of action taken “in the course of professional practice” is not defined in the CSA, but our precedents hold that when Congress employs a term of art “obviously transplanted from another legal source,” it “brings the old soil with it.” George v. McDonough, 596 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 5) (quoting Taggart v. Lorenzen, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 5); internal quotation marks omitted).  And the notion that a prescription is authorized if it is issued in the course of professional practice is directly traceable to the Harrison Act, which prohibited “any person” from distributing or dispensing coca leaves or opium “except in pursuance of a written order” issued by a practitioner “in the course of his professional practice only.”  §2,

38Stat.
786.  Arguably, the phrase “in the course of . . . professional practice” could have been read to refer only to conduct that conforms to the standards of medical practice as a purely objective matter.  But our Harrison Act precedents interpreted that phrase to refer to “bona fide medical practice,” which meant that any prescription issued “in good faith” qualified as an authorized act of dispensing one of the drugs proscribed by the statute.  Linder, 268 U. S., at 17–18; see also Boyd v. United States,

271 U.S. 104, 107 (1926); Webb v. United States,

249 U.S. 96, 99 (1919).

															Nothing in the CSA suggests that Congress intended to depart from the preexisting understanding of action “in the course of professional practice.”  We have previously held that the CSA incorporates settled understandings of “the exemption given to doctors” to dispense controlled substances “ ‘in the course of . . . professional practice’ ” under the Harrison Act.  Moore, 423 U. S., at 139–140 (quoting

38Stat.
786).  And the language of the CSA supports the same conclusions that we previously reached about the Harrison Act.  As our CSA precedents have explained, to act “in the course of professional practice” is to engage in the practice of medicine—or, as we have put it, to “act ‘as a physician.’ ”  Moore, 423 U. S., at 141.  For a practitioner to “practice medicine,” he or she must act for a medical purpose—which means aiming to prevent, cure, or alleviate the symptoms of a disease or injury—and must believe that the treatment is a medically legitimate means of treating the relevant disease or injury.

															But acting “as a physician” does not invariably mean acting as a good physician, as an objective understanding of the “in the course of professional practice” standard would suggest.  A doctor who makes negligent or even reckless mistakes in prescribing drugs is still “acting as a doctor”—he or she is simply acting as a bad doctor.  The same cannot be said, however, when a doctor knowingly or purposefully issues a prescription to facilitate “addiction and recreational abuse,” Gonzales v. Oregon,

546 U.S. 243, 274 (2006).  Objectives of that kind are alien to medical practice, and a doctor who prescribes drugs for those purposes is not “acting as a physician” in any meaningful sense.

															I would thus hold that a doctor who acts in subjective good faith in prescribing drugs is entitled to invoke the CSA’s authorization defense.  Under the correct understanding of that defense, a doctor acts “in the course of professional practice” in issuing a prescription under the CSA if—but only if—he or she believes in good faith that the prescription is a valid means of pursuing a medical purpose.  A doctor who knows that he or she is acting for a purpose foreign to medicine—such as facilitating addiction or recreational drug abuse—is not protected by the CSA’s authorization to distribute controlled substances by prescription.  Such doctors may be convicted of unlawfully distributing or dispensing a controlled substance under §841(a)(1).

															Based on this holding, I would vacate the judgments of the Courts of Appeals below.  And like the Court, I would leave it to those courts to determine on remand whether the instructions provided in petitioners’ respective trials adequately described the good-faith defense and whether any errors in the instructions were harmless.
Notes
1
*Why we have held that the mens rea canon allows courts to ignore obvious textual evidence of congressional intent is not obvious.  In our constitutional system, it is Congress that has the power to define the elements of criminal offenses, not the federal courts.  Liparota v. United States,

471 U.S. 419, 424 (1985); see also United States v. Davis, 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 5) (“Only the people’s elected representatives in the legislature are authorized to ‘make an act a crime’ ” (quoting United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch 32, 34 (1812))).  The mens rea canon is legitimate when it is used to determine what elements Congress intended to include in the definition of an offense.  See, e.g., Staples v. United States,

511 U.S. 600, 605 (1994) (explaining that the canon is founded on an inference of congressional intent).  But applying that canon to override the intentions of Congress would be inconsistent with the Constitution’s separation of powers.  Federal courts have no constitutional authority to re-write the statutes Congress has passed based on judicial views about what constitutes “sound” or “just” criminal law.  Cf. X-Citement Video, 513 U. S., at 80–82 (Scalia, J., dissenting) (criticizing our mens rea canon precedents for “convert[ing a] rule of interpretation into a rule of law” binding on Congress). 


