::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-045
::decision_cite:: 20-1530
::decision_name::  West Virginia v. Environmental Protection Agency
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 20–1530, 20–1531, 20–1778 and 20–1780

															_________________

															WEST VIRGINIA, et al., PETITIONERS

															20–1530v.

															ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, et al.

															

															THE NORTH AMERICAN COAL CORPORATION, PETITIONER

															20–1531v.

															ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, et al.

															

															WESTMORELAND MINING HOLDINGS LLC, PETITIONER

															20–1778v.

															ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, et al.

															

															NORTH DAKOTA, PETITIONER

															20–1780v.

															ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit

															[June 30, 2022]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Sotomayor join, dissenting.

															Today, the Court strips the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of the power Congress gave it to respond to “the most pressing environmental challenge of our time.”  Massachusetts v. EPA,

549 U.S. 497, 505 (2007).

															Climate change’s causes and dangers are no longer subject to serious doubt.  Modern science is “unequivocal that human influence”—in particular, the emission of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide—“has warmed the atmosphere, ocean and land.”  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Sixth Assessment Report, The Physical Science Basis: Headline Statements 1 (2021).  The Earth is now warmer than at any time “in the history of modern civilization,” with the six warmest years on record all occurring in the last decade.  U. S. Global Change Research Program, Fourth National Climate Assessment, Vol. I, p. 10 (2017); Brief for Climate Scientists as Amici Curiae 8.  The rise in temperatures brings with it “increases in heat-related deaths,” “coastal inundation and erosion,” “more frequent and intense hurricanes, floods, and other extreme weather events,” “drought,” “destruction of ecosystems,” and “potentially significant disruptions of food production.”  American Elec. Power Co. v. Connecticut,

564 U.S. 410, 417 (2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).  If the current rate of emissions continues, children born this year could live to see parts of the Eastern seaboard swallowed by the ocean.  See Brief for Climate Scientists as Amici Curiae 6.  Rising waters, scorching heat, and other severe weather conditions could force “mass migration events[,] political crises, civil unrest,” and “even state failure.”  Dept. of Defense, Climate Risk Analysis 8 (2021).  And by the end of this century, climate change could be the cause of “4.6 million excess yearly deaths.”  See R. Bressler, The Mortality Cost of Carbon, 12 Nature Communications 4467, p. 5 (2021).

															Congress charged EPA with addressing those potentially catastrophic harms, including through regulation of fossil-fuel-fired power plants.  Section 111 of the Clean Air Act directs EPA to regulate stationary sources of any substance that “causes, or contributes significantly to, air pollution” and that “may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare.”

42 U. S. C. §7411(b)(1)(A).  Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases fit that description.  See American Elec. Power, 564 U. S., at 416–417; Massachusetts, 549 U. S., at 528–532.  EPA thus serves as the Nation’s “primary regulator of greenhouse gas emissions.”  American Elec. Power, 564 U. S., at 428.  And among the most significant of the entities it regulates are fossil-fuel-fired (mainly coal- and natural-gas-fired) power plants.  Today, those electricity-producing plants are responsible for about one quarter of the Nation’s greenhouse gas emissions.  See EPA, Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Apr. 14, 2022), https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/sources-greenhouse- gas-emissions.  Curbing that output is a necessary part of any effective approach for addressing climate change.

															To carry out its Section 111 responsibility, EPA issued the Clean Power Plan in 2015.  The premise of the Plan—which no one really disputes—was that operational improvements at the individual-plant level would either “lead to only small emission reductions” or would cost far more than a readily available regulatory alternative.  80 Fed. Reg. 64727–64728 (2015).  That alternative—which fossil-fuel-fired plants were “already using to reduce their [carbon dioxide] emissions” in “a cost effective manner”—is called generation shifting.  Id., at 64728, 64769.  As the Court explains, the term refers to ways of shifting electricity generation from higher emitting sources to lower emitting ones—more specifically, from coal-fired to natural-gas-fired sources, and from both to renewable sources like solar and wind.  See ante, at 8.  A power company (like the many supporting EPA here) might divert its own resources to a cleaner source, or might participate in a cap-and-trade system with other companies to achieve the same emissions-reduction goals.

															This Court has obstructed EPA’s effort from the beginning.  Right after the Obama administration issued the Clean Power Plan, the Court stayed its implementation.  That action was unprecedented: Never before had the Court stayed a regulation then under review in the lower courts.  See Reply Brief for 29 States and State Agencies in No. 15A773, p. 33 (conceding the point).  The effect of the Court’s order, followed by the Trump administration’s repeal of the rule, was that the Clean Power Plan never went into effect.  The ensuing years, though, proved the Plan’s moderation.  Market forces alone caused the power industry to meet the Plan’s nationwide emissions target—through exactly the kinds of generation shifting the Plan contemplated.  See 84 Fed. Reg. 32561–32562 (2019); Brief for United States 47.  So by the time yet another President took office, the Plan had become, as a practical matter, obsolete.  For that reason, the Biden administration announced that, instead of putting the Plan into effect, it would commence a new rulemaking.  Yet this Court determined to pronounce on the legality of the old rule anyway.  The Court may be right that doing so does not violate Article III mootness rules (which are notoriously strict).  See ante, at 14–16.  But the Court’s docket is discretionary, and because no one is now subject to the Clean Power Plan’s terms, there was no reason to reach out to decide this case.  The Court today issues what is really an advisory opinion on the proper scope of the new rule EPA is considering.  That new rule will be subject anyway to immediate, pre-enforcement judicial review.  But this Court could not wait—even to see what the new rule says—to constrain EPA’s efforts to address climate change.

															The limits the majority now puts on EPA’s authority fly in the face of the statute Congress wrote.  The majority says it is simply “not plausible” that Congress enabled EPA to regulate power plants’ emissions through generation shifting.  Ante, at 31.  But that is just what Congress did when it broadly authorized EPA in Section 111 to select the “best system of emission reduction” for power plants.  §7411(a)(1).  The “best system” full stop—no ifs, ands, or buts of any kind relevant here.  The parties do not dispute that generation shifting is indeed the “best system”—the most effective and efficient way to reduce power plants’ carbon dioxide emissions.  And no other provision in the Clean Air Act suggests that Congress meant to foreclose EPA from selecting that system; to the contrary, the Plan’s regulatory approach fits hand-in-glove with the rest of the statute.  The majority’s decision rests on one claim alone: that generation shifting is just too new and too big a deal for Congress to have authorized it in Section 111’s general terms.  But that is wrong.  A key reason Congress makes broad delegations like Section 111 is so an agency can respond, appropriately and commensurately, to new and big problems.  Congress knows what it doesn’t and can’t know when it drafts a statute; and Congress therefore gives an expert agency the power to address issues—even significant ones—as and when they arise.  That is what Congress did in enacting Section 111.  The majority today overrides that legislative choice.  In so doing, it deprives EPA of the power needed—and the power granted—to curb the emission of greenhouse gases.

															I

															The Clean Air Act was major legislation, designed to deal with a major public policy issue.  As Congress explained, its goal was to “speed up, expand, and intensify the war against air pollution” in all its forms.  H. R. Rep. No. 91–1146, p. 1 (1970).  Or as this Court similarly recognized, the Act was a “drastic remedy to what was perceived as a serious and otherwise uncheckable problem.”  Union Elec. Co. v. EPA,

427 U.S. 246, 256 (1976).  The Act, as the majority describes, established three major regulatory programs to control air pollution from stationary sources like power plants.  See ante, at 2–6.  The National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) and Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) programs prescribe standards for specified pollutants, not including carbon dioxide.  Section 111’s New Source Performance Standards program provides an additional tool for regulating emissions from categories of stationary sources deemed to contribute significantly to pollution.  As applied to existing (not new) sources, the program mandates—via Section 111(d)—that EPA set emissions levels for pollutants not covered by the NAAQS or HAP programs, including carbon dioxide.

															Section 111(d) thus ensures that EPA regulates existing power plants’ emissions of all pollutants.  When the pollutant at issue falls within the NAAQS or HAP programs, EPA need do no more.  But when the pollutant falls outside those programs, Section 111(d) requires EPA to set an emissions level for currently operating power plants (and other stationary sources).  That means no pollutant from such a source can go unregulated: As the Senate Report explained, Section 111(d) guarantees that “there should be no gaps in control activities pertaining to stationary source emissions that pose any significant danger to public health or welfare.”  S. Rep. No. 91–1196, p. 20 (1970).  Reflecting that language, the majority calls Section 111(d) a “gap-filler.”  Ante, at 5.  It might also be thought of as a backstop or catch-all provision, protecting against pollutants that the NAAQS and HAP programs let go by.  But the section is not, as the majority further claims, an “ancillary provision” or a statutory “backwater.”  Ante, at 20, 26.  That characterization is a non-sequitur.  That something is a backstop does not make it a backwater.  Even if they are needed only infrequently, see ante, at 6, 20, backstops can perform a critical function—and this one surely does.  Again, Section 111(d) tells EPA that when a pollutant—like carbon dioxide—is not regulated through other programs, EPA must undertake a further regulatory effort to control that substance’s emission from existing stationary sources.  In that way, Section 111(d) operates to ensure that the Act achieves comprehensive pollution control.  

															Section 111 describes the prescribed regulatory effort in expansive terms.  EPA must set for the relevant source (here, fossil-fuel-fired power plants) and the relevant pollutant (here, carbon dioxide) an emission level—more particularly,

															“the degree of emission limitation achievable through the application of the best system of emission reduction which (taking into account the cost of achieving such reduction and any nonair quality health and environmental impact and energy requirements) the [EPA] Administrator determines has been adequately demonstrated.”  §7411(a)(1).

															To take that language apart a bit, the provision instructs EPA to decide upon the “best system of emission reduction which . . . has been adequately demonstrated.”  The provision tells EPA, in making that determination, to take account of both costs and varied “nonair” impacts (on health, the environment, and the supply of energy).  And the provision finally directs EPA to set the particular emissions limit achievable through use of the demonstrated “best system.”  Taken as a whole, the section provides regulatory flexibility and discretion.  It imposes, to be sure, meaningful constraints: Take into account costs and nonair impacts, and make sure the best system has a proven track record.[1]  But the core command—go find the best system of emission reduction—gives broad authority to EPA.

															If that flexibility is not apparent on the provision’s face, consider some dictionary definitions—supposedly a staple of this Court’s supposedly textualist method of reading statutes.  A “system” is “a complex unity formed of many often diverse parts subject to a common plan or serving a common purpose.”  Webster’s Third New International Dictionary 2322 (1971).  Or again: a “system” is “[a]n organized and coordinated method; a procedure.”  American Heritage Dictionary 1768 (5th ed. 2018).  The majority complains that a similar definition—cited to the Solicitor General’s brief but originally from another dictionary—is just too darn broad.  Ante, at 28; see Brief for United States 31 (quoting Webster’s New International Dictionary 2562 (2d ed. 1959)).  “[A]lmost anything” capable of reducing emissions, the majority says, “could constitute such a ‘system’ ” of emission reduction.  Ante, at 28.  But that is rather the point.  Congress used an obviously broad word (though surrounding it with constraints, see supra, at 7) to give EPA lots of latitude in deciding how to set emissions limits.  And contra the majority, a broad term is not the same thing as a “vague” one.  Ante, at 18, 20, 28.  A broad term is comprehensive, extensive, wide-ranging; a “vague” term is unclear, ambiguous, hazy.  (Once again, dictionaries would tell the tale.)  So EPA was quite right in stating in the Clean Power Plan that the “[p]lain meaning” of the term “system” in Section 111 refers to “a set of measures that work together to reduce emissions.”  80 Fed. Reg. 64762.  Another of this Court’s opinions, involving a matter other than the bogeyman of environmental regulation, might have stopped there.

															For generation shifting fits comfortably within the conventional meaning of a “system of emission reduction.”  Consider one of the most common mechanisms of generation shifting: the use of a cap-and-trade scheme.  Here is how the majority describes cap and trade: “Under such a scheme, sources that receive a reduction in their emissions can sell a credit representing the value of that reduction to others, who are able to count it toward their own applicable emissions caps.”  Ante, at 8–9.  Does that sound like a “system” to you?  It does to me too.  And it also has to this Court.  In the past, we have explained that “[t]his type of ‘cap-and-trade’ system cuts costs while still reducing pollution to target levels.”  EPA v. EME Homer City Generation, L. P.,

572 U.S. 489, 503, n. 10 (2014) (emphasis added).  So what does the majority mean when it says that “[a]s a matter of definitional possibilities, generation shifting can be described as a ‘system’ ”?  Ante, at 28 (emphasis added; citation and some internal quotation marks omitted).  Rarely has a statutory term so clearly applied.

															Other statutory provisions confirm the point.  The Clean Air Act’s acid rain provision, for example, describes a cap-and-trade program as an “emission allocation and transfer system.”  §7651(b) (emphasis added).  So a “system,” according to the statute’s own usage, includes the kind of cap-and-trade mechanism that the Clean Power Plan relied on.  And in a somewhat different way, the NAAQS provision shows that Section 111 encompasses such a regulatory technique.  Under that provision, cap-and-trade schemes qualify as “control measures, means, or techniques” that state plans may use to reduce emissions.  §7410(a)(2)(A).  That language, of course, does not use the word “system.”  But in specifying that cap and trade is allowable under the NAAQS program, the provision supports the same conclusion here—because Section 111 directs EPA to use “a procedure similar to that provided by [the NAAQS].”  §7411(d)(1).  The majority discounts the relevance of both those provisions on the ground that they contemplate trading systems only “as a means of complying with an already established emissions limit.”  Ante, at 29 (emphasis in original).  That is a distinction, to be sure.  But to begin, it is far less of one than the majority thinks: In arguing that EPA’s claim of authority here would allow it to take the emissions limit as low as it wants, the majority ignores the varied constraints surrounding the “best system” language.  See supra, at 7.  And still more important for interpretive purposes, the distinction appears only in the majority’s opinion, not in any statutory language.  That text, to the contrary, says to EPA: Do as you would do under the NAAQS and Acid Rain programs—go ahead and use cap and trade.

															There is also a flipside point: Congress declined to include in Section 111 the restrictions on EPA’s authority contained in other Clean Air Act provisions.  Most relevant here, quite a number of statutory sections confine EPA’s emissions- reduction efforts to technological controls—essentially, equipment or processes that can be put into place at a particular facility.  See ante, at 4 (describing those controls).  So, for example, one provision tells EPA to set standards “reflect[ing] the greatest degree of emission reduction achievable through the application of technology.”  §7521(a)(3)(A)(i).  Others direct the use of the “best available retrofit technology,” or the “best available control technology,” or the “maximum achievable control technology.”  §§7491(b)(2)(A), (g)(2), 7475(a)(4), 7479(3), 7412(g)(2).  There are still more.  See, e.g., §§7411(h), 7511a(c)(7), 7651f(b)(2). None of those provisions would allow EPA to set emissions limits based on generation shifting, as the Agency acknowledges.  See Brief for United States 32–33.  But nothing like the language of those provisions is included in Section 111.  That matters under normal rules of statutory interpretation.  As Justice Scalia once wrote for the Court: “We do not lightly assume that Congress has omitted from its adopted text requirements that it nonetheless intends to apply, and our reluctance is even greater when Congress has shown elsewhere in the same statute that it knows how to make such a requirement manifest.”  Jama v. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,

543 U.S. 335, 341 (2005).

															Statutory history serves only to pile on: It shows that Congress has specifically declined to restrict EPA to  technology-based controls in its regulation of existing stationary sources.  The key moment came in 1977, when Congress amended Section 111 to distinguish between new sources and existing ones.  For new sources, EPA could select only the “best technological system of continuous emission reduction.”  Clean Air Act Amendments, §109(c)(1)(A), 

91Stat.
700 (emphasis added).  But for existing sources, the word “technological” was struck out: EPA could select the “best system of continuous emission reduction.”  Ibid.  The House Report emphasized Congress’s deliberate choice: Whereas the standards set for new sources were to be based on “the best technological” controls, the “standards adopted for existing sources” were “to be based on available means of emission control (not necessarily technological).”  H. R. Rep. No. 95–564, p. 129 (1977).  The Report did not further explain the distinction.  But presumably Congress gave EPA more flexibility over existing plants because imposing technological controls on old facilities is often not cost- effective.[2]  Thirteen years later, Congress followed up by deleting from Section 111 the technological limitation applying to new facilities.  See Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, §403(a),

104Stat.
2631.  Once again, then, Congress faced a choice: confine EPA to technological controls, or not.  And replicating its earlier action for existing sources, Congress chose not.

															The majority breezes past that congressional choice on the ground that today’s opinion does not resolve whether EPA can regulate in some non-technological ways; instead, the opinion says only that the Clean Power Plan goes too far.  See ante, at 30–31.  That is a puzzling point.  As an initial matter, it recharacterizes what this case has always been about.  The Trump administration repealed the Clean Power Plan for one central reason: because (in its view) Section 111 confines EPA to facility-specific, technological measures.  See 84 Fed. Reg. 32523–32529.  In reviewing that repeal, the court below thus addressed that limit alone.  See American Lung Assn. v. EPA, 985 F.3d 914, 944 (CADC 2021).  So add to the oddity of the Court’s declaring a defunct regulation unlawful, see supra, at 4, the irregularity of its suggesting some kind of non-technological limit that no one (not EPA, not the parties, not the court below) has ever considered.  More important here, both the nature and the statutory basis of that limit are left a mystery.  If the majority is not distinguishing between technological controls and all others, what is it doing—and how far does its opinion constrain EPA?  The majority makes no effort to say.  And because that is so, the majority cannot even attempt to ground its limit in the statutory language.  I’ve just shown that restricting EPA to technological controls is inconsistent with Section 111, especially when read in conjunction with other statutory provisions.  And the majority provides no reason to think that its (possibly) different limit fares any better.  Section 111 does not impose any constraints—technological or otherwise—on EPA’s authority to regulate stationary sources (except for those stated, like cost).  In somehow (and to some extent) saying otherwise, the majority flouts the statutory text.

															“Congress,” this Court has said, “knows to speak in plain terms when it wishes to circumscribe, and in capacious terms when it wishes to enlarge, agency discretion.”  Arlington v. FCC,

569 U.S. 290, 296 (2013).  In Section 111, Congress spoke in capacious terms.  It knew that “without regulatory flexibility, changing circumstances and scientific developments would soon render the Clean Air Act obsolete.”  Massachusetts, 549 U. S., at 532.  So the provision enables EPA to base emissions limits for existing stationary sources on the “best system.”  That system may be technological in nature; it may be whatever else the majority has in mind; or, most important here, it may be generation shifting.  The statute does not care.  And when Congress uses “expansive language” to authorize agency action, courts generally may not “impos[e] limits on [the] agency’s discretion.”  Little Sisters of the Poor Saints Peter and Paul Home v. Pennsylvania, 591 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 16).  That constraint on judicial authority—that insistence on judicial modesty—should resolve this case.

															II

															The majority thinks not, contending that in “certain extraordinary cases”—of which this is one—courts should start off with “skepticism” that a broad delegation authorizes agency action.  Ante, at 19.  The majority labels that view the “major questions doctrine,” and claims to find support for it in our caselaw.  Ante, at 19–20, 28.  But the relevant decisions do normal statutory interpretation: In them, the Court simply insisted that the text of a broad delegation, like any other statute, should be read in context, and with a modicum of common sense.  Using that ordinary method, the decisions struck down agency actions (even though they plausibly fit within a delegation’s terms) for two principal reasons.  First, an agency was operating far outside its traditional lane, so that it had no viable claim of expertise or experience.  And second, the action, if allowed, would have conflicted with, or even wreaked havoc on, Congress’s broader design.  In short, the assertion of delegated power was a misfit for both the agency and the statutory scheme.  But that is not true here.  The Clean Power Plan falls within EPA’s wheelhouse, and it fits perfectly—as I’ve just shown—with all the Clean Air Act’s provisions.  That the Plan addresses major issues of public policy does not upend the analysis.  Congress wanted EPA to do just that.  Section 111 entrusts important matters to EPA in the expectation that the Agency will use that authority to combat pollution—and that courts will not interfere.

															A

															“[T]he words of a statute,” as the majority states, “must be read in their context and with a view to their place in the overall statutory scheme.”  FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.,

529 U.S. 120, 133 (2000); see ante, at 16.  We do not assess the meaning of a single word, phrase, or provision in isolation; we also consider the overall statutory design.  And that is just as true of statutes broadly delegating power to agencies as of any other kind.  In deciding on the scope of such a delegation, courts must assess how an agency action claimed to fall within the provision fits with other aspects of a statutory plan.

															So too, a court “must be guided to a degree by common sense as to the manner in which Congress is likely to delegate.”  Brown & Williamson, 529 U. S., at 133.  Assume that a policy decision, like this one, is a matter of significant “economic and political magnitude.”  Ibid.  We know that Congress delegates such decisions to agencies all the time—and often via broadly framed provisions like Section 111.  See infra, at 29–31.  But Congress does so in a sensible way.  To decide whether an agency action goes beyond what Congress wanted, courts must assess (among other potentially relevant factors) the nature of the regulation, the nature of the agency, and the relationship of the two to each other.  See, e.g., Barnhart v. Walton,

535 U.S. 212, 222 (2002).  In particular, we have understood, Congress does not usually grant agencies the authority to decide significant issues on which they have no particular expertise.  So when there is a mismatch between the agency’s usual portfolio and a given assertion of power, courts have reason to question whether Congress intended a delegation to go so far.

															The majority today goes beyond those sensible principles.  It announces the arrival of the “major questions doctrine,” which replaces normal text-in-context statutory interpretation with some tougher-to-satisfy set of rules.  Ante, at 16–31.  Apparently, there is now a two-step inquiry.  First, a court must decide, by looking at some panoply of factors, whether agency action presents an “extraordinary case[ ].”  Ante, at 17; see ante, at 20–28.  If it does, the agency “must point to clear congressional authorization for the power it claims,” someplace over and above the normal statutory basis we require.  Ante, at 19 (internal quotation marks omitted); see ante, at 28–31.  The result is statutory interpretation of an unusual kind.  It is not until page 28 of a 31-page opinion that the majority begins to seriously discuss the meaning of Section 111.  And even then, it does not address straight-up what should be the question: Does the text of that provision, when read in context and with a common-sense awareness of how Congress delegates, authorize the agency action here?

															The majority claims it is just following precedent, but that is not so.  The Court has never even used the term “major questions doctrine” before.  And in the relevant cases, the Court has done statutory construction of a familiar sort.  It has looked to the text of a delegation.  It has addressed how an agency’s view of that text works—or fails to do so—in the context of a broader statutory scheme.  And it has asked, in a common-sensical (or call it purposive) vein, about what Congress would have made of the agency’s view—otherwise said, whether Congress would naturally have delegated authority over some important question to the agency, given its expertise and experience.  In short, in assessing the scope of a delegation, the Court has considered—without multiple steps, triggers, or special presumptions—the fit between the power claimed, the agency claiming it, and the broader statutory design.

															The key case here is FDA v. Brown & Williamson.  There, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) asserted that its power to regulate “drugs” and “devices” extended to tobacco products.  The claim had something to it: FDA has broad authority over “drugs” and drug-delivery “devices,” and the definitions of those terms could be read to encompass nicotine and cigarettes.  But the asserted authority “simply [did] not fit” the overall statutory scheme.  529 U. S., at 143.  FDA’s governing statute required the agency to ensure that regulated products were “safe” to be marketed—but there was no making tobacco products safe in the usual sense.  Id., at 133–143.  So FDA would have had to reinterpret what it meant to be “safe,” or else ban tobacco products altogether.  Ibid.  Both options, the Court thought, were preposterous.  Until the agency action at issue, tobacco products hadn’t been spoken of in the same breath as pharmaceuticals (FDA’s paradigmatic regulated product).  And Congress had created in several statutes a “distinct regulatory scheme” for tobacco, not involving FDA.  Id., at 155–156.  So all the evidence was that Congress had never meant for FDA to have any—let alone total—control over the tobacco industry, with its “unique political history.”  Id., at 159.  Again, there was “simply” a lack of “fit” between the regulation at issue, the agency in question, and the broader statutory scheme.  Id., at 143.

															The majority’s effort to find support in Brown & Williamson for its interpretive approach fails.  See ante, at 19.  It may be helpful here to quote the full sentence that the majority quotes half of.  “In extraordinary cases,” the Court stated, “there may be reason to hesitate before concluding that Congress has intended such an implicit delegation.”  529 U. S., at 159.  For anyone familiar with this Court’s Chevron doctrine, that language will ring a bell.  The Court was saying only—and it was elsewhere explicit on this point—that there was reason to hesitate before giving FDA’s position Chevron deference.  See id., at 132–133, 159–161.  And what was that reason?  The Court went on to explain that it would not defer to FDA because it read the relevant statutory provisions as negating the agency’s claimed authority.  See id., at 160 (“[W]e are obliged to defer not to the agency’s expansive construction of the statute, but to Congress’ consistent judgment to deny the FDA this power”); id., at 133 (finding at Chevron’s first step that “Congress has directly spoken to the issue here and precluded the FDA’s” asserted power).  In reaching that conclusion, the Court relied (as I’ve just explained) not on any special “clear authorization” demand, but on normal principles of statutory interpretation: look at the text, view it in context, and use what the Court called some “common sense” about how Congress delegates.  Ibid. That is how courts are to decide, in the majority’s language, whether an agency has asserted a “highly consequential power beyond what Congress could reasonably be understood to have granted.”  Ante, at 20.

															The Court has applied the same kind of analysis in subsequent cases—holding in each that an agency exceeded the scope of a broadly framed delegation when it operated outside the sphere of its expertise, in a way that warped the statutory text or structure.  In Gonzales v. Oregon,

546 U.S. 243 (2006), we rejected the Attorney General’s assertion of authority (under a broad “public interest” standard) to rescind doctors’ registrations for facilitating assisted suicide, even in States where doing so was legal.  See id., at 243, 248–249, 261–275.  We doubted Congress would have delegated such a “quintessentially medical judgment[ ]” to “an executive official who lacks medical expertise.”  Id., at 266–267.  And we pointed to statutory provisions in which Congress—in opposition to the claimed power—had “painstakingly described the Attorney General’s limited authority” to deregister physicians.  Id., at 262.[3]

															Later, in Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA,

573 U.S. 302 (2014), the Court relied on similar reasoning to reject EPA’s efforts to regulate “millions of small” and previously unregulated sources of emissions—“including retail stores, offices, apartment buildings, shopping centers, schools, and churches.”  Id., at 328.  Key to that decision was the Court’s view that reading the delegation so expansively would be “inconsistent with” the statute’s broader “structure and design.”  Id., at 321.  The Court explained that allowing the agency action to proceed would necessitate the “rewriting” of other “unambiguous statutory terms”—indeed, of “precise numerical thresholds.”  Id., at 321, 325–326. (In quoting one cryptic sentence of Utility Air as supporting its new approach, see ante, at 19, the majority ignores the nine preceding pages of analysis of the statute’s text and context, see 573 U. S., at 315–324.)

															And last Term, the Court concluded that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) lacked the power to impose a nationwide eviction moratorium.  Alabama Assn. of Realtors v. Department of Health and Human Servs., 594 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2021) (slip op., at 5–7).  The Court held that other statutory language made it a “stretch” to read the relied-on delegation as covering the CDC’s action.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  And the Court raised an eyebrow at the thought of the CDC “intrud[ing]” into “the landlord-tenant relationship”—a matter outside the CDC’s usual “domain.”  Ibid.[4]

															The eyebrow-raise is indeed a consistent presence in these cases, responding to something the Court found anomalous—looked at from Congress’s point of view—in a particular agency’s exercise of authority.  In each case, the Court thought, the agency had strayed out of its lane, to an area where it had neither expertise nor experience.  The Attorney General making healthcare policy, the regulator of pharmaceutical concerns deciding the fate of the tobacco industry, and so on.  And in each case, the proof that the agency had roamed too far afield lay in the statutory scheme itself.  The agency action collided with other statutory provisions; if the former were allowed, the latter could not mean what they said or could not work as intended.  FDA having to declare tobacco “safe” to avoid shutting down an industry; or EPA having literally to change hard numbers contained in the Clean Air Act.  There, according to the Court, the statutory framework was “not designed to grant” the authority claimed.  Utility Air, 573 U. S., at 324.  The agency’s “singular” assertion of power “would render the statute unrecognizable to the Congress” that wrote it.  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).

															B

															The Court today faces no such singular assertion of agency power.  As I have already explained, nothing in the Clean Air Act (or, for that matter, any other statute) conflicts with EPA’s reading of Section 111.  Notably, the majority does not dispute that point.  Of course, it views Section 111 (if for unexplained reasons) as less clear than I do.  Compare ante, at 28, with supra, at 7–9.  But nowhere does the majority provide evidence from within the statute itself that the Clean Power Plan conflicts with or undermines Congress’s design.  That fact alone makes this case different from all the cases described above.  As to the other critical matter in those cases—is the agency operating outside its sphere of expertise?—the majority at least tries to say something.  It claims EPA has no “comparative expertise” in “balancing the many vital considerations of national policy” implicated in regulating electricity sources.  Ante, at 25–26.  But that is wrong.

															Start with what this Court has said before on the subject, reflecting Congress’s view of the matter.  About a decade ago, we recognized that Congress had “delegated to EPA” in Section 111 “the decision whether and how to regulate carbon-dioxide emissions from powerplants.”  American Elec. Power, 564 U. S., at 426.  To stress the key word (because the majority seems to miss it, see ante, at 26–27): not merely “whether” but also “how.”  In making that delegation, we explained, Congress knew well what it was doing.  Regulating power plant emissions is a complex undertaking.  To do it right requires “informed assessment of competing interests”: “Along with the environmental benefit potentially achievable, our Nation’s energy needs and the possibility of economic disruption must weigh in the balance.”  564 U. S., at 427; see §7411(a)(1) (instructing EPA to consider “energy requirements,” “cost,” and other factors).  Congress specifically “entrust[ed] such complex balancing to EPA,” because that “expert agency” has the needed “scientific, economic, and technological resources” to carry it out.  564 U. S., at 427–428.  So the balancing—including of the Nation’s “energy requirements”—that the majority says EPA has no “comparative expertise” in?  §7411(a)(1); ante, at 25.  We explained 11 short years ago, citing Congress, that it was smack in the middle of EPA’s wheelhouse.

															And we were right.  Consider the Clean Power Plan’s component parts—let’s call them the what, who, and how—to see the rule’s normalcy.  The “what” is the subject matter of the Plan: carbon dioxide emissions.  This Court has already found that those emissions fall within EPA’s domain.  We said then: “[T]here is nothing counterintuitive to the notion that EPA can curtail the emission of substances that are putting the global climate out of kilter.”  Massachusetts, 549 U. S., at 531.  This is not the Attorney General regulating medical care, or even the CDC regulating landlord- tenant relations.  It is EPA (that’s the Environmental Protection Agency, in case the majority forgot) acting to address the greatest environmental challenge of our time.  So too, there is nothing special about the Plan’s “who”: fossil-fuel-fired power plants.  In Utility Air, we thought EPA’s regulation of churches and schools highly unusual.  See supra, at 18.  But fossil-fuel-fired plants?  Those plants pollute—a lot—and so they have long lived under the watchful eye of EPA.  That was true even before EPA began regulating carbon dioxide.  See Train v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,

421 U.S. 60, 78 (1975).

															Finally, the “how” of generation shifting creates no mismatch with EPA’s expertise.  As the Plan noted, generation shifting has a well-established pedigree as a tool for reducing pollution; even putting aside other federal regulation, see infra, at 25–26, both state regulators and power plants themselves have long used it to attain environmental goals.  See 80 Fed. Reg. 64664; Brief for Power Company Respondents 47; see also S. Breyer, Regulation and Its Reform 444, n. 1 (1982) (citing literature on the subject from the 1970s).  The technique is, so to speak, a tool in the pollution-control toolbox.  And that toolbox is the one EPA uses.  So that Agency, more than any other, has the desired “comparative expertise.”  Ante, at 25.  The majority cannot contest that point frontally: It knows that cap and trade and similar mechanisms are an ordinary part of modern environmental regulation.  Instead, the majority protests that Congress would not have wanted EPA to “dictat[e],” through generation shifting, the “mix of energy sources nationwide.”  Ante, at 26.  But that statement reflects a misunderstanding of how the electricity market works.  Every regulation of power plants—even the most conventional, facility- specific controls—“dictat[es]” the national energy mix to one or another degree.  That result follows because regulations affect costs, and the electrical grid works by taking up energy from low-cost providers before high-cost ones.  Consider an example: Suppose EPA requires coal-fired plants to use carbon-capture technology.  That action increases those plants’ costs, and automatically (by virtue of the way the grid operates) reduces their share of the electricity market.  So EPA is always controlling the mix of energy sources.  In that sense (though the term has taken on a more specialized meaning), everything EPA does is “generation shifting.”  The majority’s idea that EPA has no warrant to direct such a shift just indicates that courts sometimes do not really get regulation.[5]

															Why, then, be “skeptic[al]” of EPA’s exercise of authority?  Ante, at 28.  When there is no misfit, of the kind apparent in our precedents, between the regulation, the agency, and the statutory design?  Although the majority offers a flurry of complaints, they come down in the end to this: The Clean Power Plan is a big new thing, issued under a minor statutory provision.  See ante, at 20, 24, 26 (labeling the Plan “transformative” and “unprecedented” and calling Section 111(d) an “ancillary” “backwater”).  I have already addressed the back half of that argument: In fact, there is nothing insignificant about Section 111(d), which was intended to ensure that EPA would limit existing stationary sources’ emissions of otherwise unregulated pollutants (however few or many there were).  See supra, at 6.  And the front half of the argument doesn’t work either.  The Clean Power Plan was not so big.  It was not so new.  And to the extent it was either, that should not matter.

															As to bigness—well, events have proved the opposite: The Clean Power Plan, we now know, would have had little or no impact.  The Trump administration’s repeal of the Plan created a kind of controlled experiment: The Plan’s “magnitude” (ante, at 24) could be measured by seeing how far short the industry fell of the Plan’s nationwide emissions target.  Except that turned out to be the wrong question, because the industry didn’t fall short of the Plan’s goal; rather, the industry exceeded that target, all on its own.  See App. 265 (declaration of EPA official).  And it did so mainly through the generation-shifting techniques that the Plan called for.  See ibid.; Brief for United States 47.  In effect, the Plan predicted market behavior, rather than altered it (as regulations usually do).  Cf. Utility Air, 573 U. S., at 321–322 (discussing the “calamitous consequences” of the EPA approach there under review).  And that fact has been understood for some years.  At the time of the repeal, the Trump administration explained that “there [was] likely to be no difference between a world where the [Clean Power Plan was] implemented and one where it [was] not.”  84 Fed. Reg. 32561.[6]  It is small wonder, then, that the power industry overwhelmingly supports EPA in this case.  See Brief for Power Company Respondents 2–3.  In the regulated parties’ view, the rule aimed to achieve what most power companies also want: substantial reductions in carbon dioxide emissions accomplished in a cost-effective way while maintaining a reliable electricity market.  See id., at 26–27, 38, 41–42.

															The majority thus pivots to the massive consequences generation shifting could produce—but that claim fares just as poorly.  On EPA’s view of its own authority, the majority worries, some future rule might “forc[e] coal plants to ‘shift’ away virtually all of their generation—i.e., to cease making power altogether.”  Ante, at 24.  But looking at the text of Section 111(d) might here come in handy.  For the statute imposes, as already shown, a set of constraints—particularly involving costs and energy needs—that would preclude so extreme a regulation.  See Brief for United States 41–42 (conceding the point); supra, at 7.  And if the majority thinks those constraints do not really constrain, then it has a much bigger problem.  For “traditional” technological controls, of the kind the majority approves, can have equally dramatic effects.  Ante, at 23.  Take, for example, the “fuel-switching” regulation the majority mentions.  Ibid.  Such a rule does just what you might think: It requires a plant to burn a different kind of fuel—say, natural gas instead of coal.  So it too can significantly “restructur[e] the Nation’s overall mix of electricity generation.”  Ante, at 16.  Or take an even more technological-sounding approach: the use of carbon-capture equipment.  Order the installation of that equipment, the Trump administration concluded, and the “exorbitant” costs “would almost certainly force the closure” of all affected “coal-fired power plants.”  84 Fed. Reg. 32548.  The point is a simple one: If generation shifting can go big, so too can technological controls (assuming, once again, that the statute’s text is ignored).  The problem (if any exists) is not with the channel, but with the volume.[7]

															The majority’s claim about the Clean Power Plan’s novelty—the most fleshed-out part of today’s opinion, see ante, at 20–24—is also exaggerated.  As EPA explained when it issued the Clean Power Plan, an earlier Section 111(d) regulation had determined that a cap-and-trade program was the “best system of emission reduction” for mercury.  70 Fed. Reg. 28616–28621 (2005); see 80 Fed. Reg. 64772.  In the majority’s view, that rule was different because the “actual emission cap” for the contemplated cap-and-trade scheme was based on the use of a plant-specific technology—namely, wet scrubbers.  Ante, at 21 (internal quotation marks omitted).  But the approval of cap and trade allowed EPA to make the emissions limits more stringent than it otherwise could have, because EPA knew that plants unable to cost-effectively install scrubbers could instead meet the limits through generation shifting.  See 70 Fed. Reg. 28619.  EPA could have designed the Clean Power Plan in the same way—say, by setting emissions limits based on carbon-capture technology, with the expectation that many plants would avail themselves of an approved cap-and-trade program instead.  The majority gives no reason to think Section 111(d) allows that approach but disallows the Clean Power Plan.  In both, generation shifting is operating to increase the strictness of emissions limits.

															And the mercury rule itself was rooted in precedent.  A decade earlier, EPA had determined that States could comply with a Section 111(d) regulation for municipal waste combustors by establishing cap-and-trade programs.  See 40 CFR §§60.30a, 60.33b(d)(2) (1996).  And beyond Section 111(d), trading and other tools of generation shifting become still more common.  For decades, EPA has relied on those pollution-control techniques in rules covering new  internal-combustion engines under Section 111(b), sources of nitrogen oxide under the NAAQS program, and motor vehicles under Section 202(a).  See 73 Fed. Reg. 3595 (2008); 71 Fed. Reg. 39159 (2006); 63 Fed. Reg. 57358–57359 (1998); 48 Fed. Reg. 33456 (1983); see also Brief for Richard L. Revesz as Amicus Curiae 24–29 (collecting similar rules).  No doubt the majority is right that scrubbers and other “add-on controls” are “more traditional air pollution control measures.”  Ante, at 23.  EPA readily acknowledged that fact in developing the Clean Power Plan.  But the idea that the Plan’s reliance on generation shifting effected some kind of revolution in power-plant pollution control?  No.  As I’ve noted before, power plants themselves use that method.  State environmental regulators use that method.  And EPA has used that method, including under the statutory provision invoked here.

															In any event, newness might be perfectly legitimate—even required—from Congress’s point of view.  I do not dispute that an agency’s longstanding practice may inform a court’s interpretation of a statute delegating the agency power.  See ante, at 20–21.  But it is equally true, as Brown & Williamson recognized, that agency practices are “not carved in stone.”  529 U. S., at 156–157 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Congress makes broad delegations in part so that agencies can “adapt their rules and policies to the demands of changing circumstances.”  Id., at 157.  To keep faith with that congressional choice, courts must give agencies “ample latitude” to revisit, rethink, and revise their regulatory approaches.  Ibid.  So it is here.  Section 111(d) was written, as I’ve shown, to give EPA plenty of leeway.  See supra, at 6–8.  The enacting Congress told EPA to pick the “best system of emission reduction” (taking into account various factors).  In selecting those words, Congress understood—it had to—that the “best system” would change over time.  Congress wanted and instructed EPA to keep up.  To ensure the statute’s continued effectiveness, the “best system” should evolve as circumstances evolved—in a way Congress knew it couldn’t then know.  See Massachusetts, 549 U. S., at 532.  EPA followed those statutory directions to the letter when it issued the Clean Power Plan.  It selected a system (as the regulated parties agree) that achieved greater emissions reductions at lower cost than any technological alternative could have, while maintaining a reliable electricity market.  Even if that system was novel, it was in EPA’s view better—actually, “best.”  So it was the system that accorded with the enacting Congress’s choice.

															And contra the majority, it is that Congress’s choice which counts, not any later one’s.  The majority says it “cannot ignore” that Congress in recent years has “considered and rejected” cap-and-trade schemes.  Ante, at 27–28.  But under normal principles of statutory construction, the majority should ignore that fact (just as I should ignore that Congress failed to enact bills barring EPA from implementing the Clean Power Plan).  As we have explained time and again, failed legislation “offers a particularly dangerous basis on which to rest an interpretation of an existing law a different and earlier Congress” adopted.  Bostock v. Clayton County, 590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 20) (internal quotation marks omitted); see Sullivan v. Finkelstein,

496 U.S. 617, 632 (1990) (Scalia, J., concurring in part) (“Arguments based on subsequent legislative history” should “not be taken seriously, not even in a footnote”).  Return to Brown & Williamson, which all agree is the key case in this sphere.  It disclaimed any reliance on “Congress’ failure” to grant FDA jurisdiction over tobacco.  529 U. S., at 155.  Instead, the Court focused on the statutes Congress “ha[d] enacted,” which created “a distinct regulatory scheme” for tobacco, incompatible with FDA’s.  Ibid. (emphasis added).  Here, as I’ve shown and the majority effectively concedes, there is nothing equivalent.  See supra, at 9–12.  Search high and low, nothing in current law conflicts with, or otherwise casts doubt on, the Clean Power Plan.  That leaves the Court in much the same place it was when deciding Massachusetts v. EPA.  Said the Court then: “That subsequent Congresses have eschewed enacting binding emissions limitations to combat global warming tells us nothing about what Congress meant” when it enacted the Clean Air Act.  549 U. S., at 529–530.  And so the Court recognized EPA’s authority to regulate carbon dioxide.  But that Court was not this Court; and this Court deprives EPA of the authority Congress gave it in Section 111(d) to respond to the same environmental danger.

															III

															Some years ago, I remarked that “[w]e’re all textualists now.”  Harvard Law School, The Antonin Scalia Lecture Series: A Dialogue with Justice Elena Kagan on the Reading of Statutes (Nov. 25, 2015). It seems I was wrong.  The current Court is textualist only when being so suits it.  When that method would frustrate broader goals, special canons like the “major questions doctrine” magically appear as get-out-of-text-free cards.[8]  Today, one of those broader goals makes itself clear: Prevent agencies from doing important work, even though that is what Congress directed.  That anti-administrative-state stance shows up in the majority opinion, and it suffuses the concurrence.  See ante, at 19, 25–26; e.g., ante, at 3–6 (Gorsuch, J., concurring).

															The kind of agency delegations at issue here go all the way back to this Nation’s founding.  “[T]he founding era,” scholars have shown, “wasn’t concerned about delegation.”  E. Posner & A. Vermeule, Interring the Nondelegation Doctrine, 69 U. Chi. L. Rev. 1721, 1734 (2002) (Posner & Vermeule).  The records of the Constitutional Convention, the ratification debates, the Federalist—none of them suggests any significant limit on Congress’s capacity to delegate policymaking authority to the Executive Branch.  And neither does any early practice.  The very first Congress gave sweeping authority to the Executive Branch to resolve some of the day’s most pressing problems, including questions of “territorial administration,” “Indian affairs,” “foreign and domestic debt,” “military service,” and “the federal courts.”  J. Mortenson & N. Bagley, Delegation at the Founding, 121 Colum. L. Rev. 277, 349 (2021) (Mortenson & Bagley).  That Congress, to use a few examples, gave the Executive power to devise a licensing scheme for trading with Indians; to craft appropriate laws for the Territories; and to decide how to pay down the (potentially ruinous) national debt.  See id., at 334–338, 340–342, 344–345; C. Chabot, The Lost History of Delegation at the Founding, 56 Ga. L. Rev. 81, 113–134 (2021) (Chabot).  Barely anyone objected on delegation grounds.  See Mortenson & Bagley 281–282, 332, 339; Chabot 117–119; Posner & Vermeule 1733–1736.

															It is not surprising that Congress has always delegated, and continues to do so—including on important policy issues.  As this Court has recognized, it is often “unreasonable and impracticable” for Congress to do anything else.  American Power & Light Co. v. SEC,

329 U.S. 90, 105 (1946).  In all times, but ever more in “our increasingly complex society,” the Legislature “simply cannot do its job absent an ability to delegate power under broad general directives.”  Mistretta v. United States,

488 U.S. 361, 372 (1989).  Consider just two reasons why.

															First, Members of Congress often don’t know enough—and know they don’t know enough—to regulate sensibly on an issue.  Of course, Members can and do provide overall direction.  But then they rely, as all of us rely in our daily lives, on people with greater expertise and experience.  Those people are found in agencies.  Congress looks to them to make specific judgments about how to achieve its more general objectives.  And it does so especially, though by no means exclusively, when an issue has a scientific or technical dimension.  Why wouldn’t Congress instruct EPA to select “the best system of emission reduction,” rather than try to choose that system itself?  Congress knows that systems of emission reduction lie not in its own but in EPA’s “unique expertise.”  Martin v. Occupational Safety and Health Review Comm’n,

499 U.S. 144, 151 (1991).

															Second and relatedly, Members of Congress often can’t know enough—and again, know they can’t—to keep regulatory schemes working across time.  Congress usually can’t predict the future—can’t anticipate changing circumstances and the way they will affect varied regulatory techniques.  Nor can Congress (realistically) keep track of and respond to fast-flowing developments as they occur.  Once again, that is most obviously true when it comes to scientific and technical matters.  The “best system of emission reduction” is not today what it was yesterday, and will surely be something different tomorrow.  So for this reason too, a rational Congress delegates.  It enables an agency to adapt old regulatory approaches to new times, to ensure that a statutory program remains effective.  See, e.g., National Federation of Independent Business v. OSHA, 595 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., dissenting) (slip op., at 9) (observing that a statute’s broad language was meant to ensure that an agency had “the tools needed to confront emerging dangers”).

															Over time, the administrative delegations Congress has made have helped to build a modern Nation.  Congress wanted fewer workers killed in industrial accidents.  It wanted to prevent plane crashes, and reduce the deadliness of car wrecks.  It wanted to ensure that consumer products didn’t catch fire.  It wanted to stop the routine adulteration of food and improve the safety and efficacy of medications.  And it wanted cleaner air and water.  If an American could go back in time, she might be astonished by how much progress has occurred in all those areas.  It didn’t happen through legislation alone.  It happened because Congress gave broad-ranging powers to administrative agencies, and those agencies then filled in—rule by rule by rule—Congress’s policy outlines.

															This Court has historically known enough not to get in the way.  Maybe the best explanation of why comes from Justice Scalia.  See Mistretta, 488 U. S., at 415–416 (dissenting opinion).  The context was somewhat different.  He was responding to an argument that Congress could not constitutionally delegate broad policymaking authority; here, the Court reads a delegation with unwarranted skepticism, and thereby artificially constrains its scope.  But Justice Scalia’s reasoning remains on point.  He started with the inevitability of delegations: “[S]ome judgments involving policy considerations,” he stated, “must be left to [administrative] officers.”  Id., at 415.  Then he explained why courts should not try to seriously police those delegations, barring—or, I’ll add, narrowing—some on the ground that they went too far.  The scope of delegations, he said,

															“must be fixed according to common sense and the inherent necessities of the governmental co-ordination.  Since Congress is no less endowed with common sense than we are, and better equipped to inform itself of the necessities of government; and since the factors bearing upon those necessities are both multifarious and (in the nonpartisan sense) highly political . . . it is small wonder that we have almost never felt qualified to  second-guess Congress regarding the permissible degree of policy judgment that can be left to those executing or applying the law.”  Id., at 416 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															In short, when it comes to delegations, there are good reasons for Congress (within extremely broad limits) to get to call the shots.  Congress knows about how government works in ways courts don’t.  More specifically, Congress knows what mix of legislative and administrative action conduces to good policy.  Courts should be modest.

															 Today, the Court is not.  Section 111, most naturally read, authorizes EPA to develop the Clean Power Plan—in other words, to decide that generation shifting is the “best system of emission reduction” for power plants churning out carbon dioxide.  Evaluating systems of emission reduction is what EPA does.  And nothing in the rest of the Clean Air Act, or any other statute, suggests that Congress did not mean for the delegation it wrote to go as far as the text says.  In rewriting that text, the Court substitutes its own ideas about delegations for Congress’s.  And that means the Court substitutes its own ideas about policymaking for Congress’s.  The Court will not allow the Clean Air Act to work as Congress instructed.  The Court, rather than Congress, will decide how much regulation is too much.

															The subject matter of the regulation here makes the Court’s intervention all the more troubling.  Whatever else this Court may know about, it does not have a clue about how to address climate change.  And let’s say the obvious: The stakes here are high.  Yet the Court today prevents congressionally authorized agency action to curb power plants’ carbon dioxide emissions.  The Court appoints itself—instead of Congress or the expert agency—the decision-maker on climate policy.  I cannot think of many things more frightening.  Respectfully, I dissent.
Notes
1
 Those constraints have had real effect: They have led EPA in prior rulemakings to exclude a number of pollution-control measures from the “best system of emission reduction.”  See Brief for United States 49 (collecting citations). 

2
 The majority offers a theory for why Congress insisted on a technological system for new sources: It was, the majority says, to prevent EPA’s use of a particular kind of technological system (involving fuel switching) to achieve emissions reductions.  See ante, at 22, n. 2, 23.  To begin with: I don’t see how requiring EPA to select among technological systems precludes it from picking what the majority agrees is one such measure.  See ante, at 4, 22, n. 2, 22–23.  But more important, I can’t see why the majority’s explanation matters.  Let’s assume the majority is right about Congress’s motive. The key point remains the same: Whatever that motive, Congress’s instruction to use technological systems applied only to new sources, and not to existing ones.  As to the latter, Congress allowed EPA more latitude: The Agency could use technological or non-technological methods, as it preferred.  That distinction is what creates interpretive difficulties for the majority—again, no matter why it arose. 

3
 Similarly, in King v. Burwell,

576 U.S. 473 (2015), we relied on Brown & Williamson in declining to defer to the Internal Revenue Service’s construction of the Affordable Care Act.  We thought it highly “unlikely that Congress would have delegated” an important decision about healthcare pricing to an agency with “no expertise in crafting health insurance policy.”  576 U. S., at 486. 

4
 Not every Justice, of course, agreed with the Court’s conclusions in the above-discussed cases; to be frank, I dissented in a couple.  But what matters here is the analysis those decisions undertook—and how, as I’ll describe, it supports EPA’s Clean Power Plan. 

5
 The majority’s only response to the argument above similarly reveals a misperception as to the practical impact of different regulatory techniques.  According to the majority, there is an “obvious difference” between changing the energy mix by conventional technological regulation and doing so by measures like cap and trade.  Ante, at 27, n. 4.  But in fact there is not.  As I’ll detail later, generation shifting can effect a significant—or instead an insignificant—change in the energy mix; and the same is true of technological regulations.  See infra, at 24–25.  It all depends on the specifics: There is no necessary connection (in either direction) between the kind of regulation and the magnitude of its effect.  For example, a rule requiring the use of carbon-capture technology would have shifted far more electricity production from coal-fired plants than the Clean Power Plan would have.  See ibid.  In suggesting that cap-and-trade programs are somehow more suspect, the majority merely serves to disadvantage what is often the smartest kind of regulation: market-based programs that achieve the biggest bang for the buck.  That is why so many power companies are on EPA’s side in this litigation. 

6
 Even when the Clean Power Plan was first issued, its projected impact was far less than what the majority implies.  The majority states, for example, that the rule would have “reduce[d] GDP by at least a trillion 2009 dollars by 2040.”  Ante, at 10.  That sounds like a lot, but it is in fact “equivalent to changes of a few tenths of 1 percent from baseline.”  Dept. of Energy, Analysis of the Impacts of the Clean Power Plan 63–64 (2015).  And the “billions of dollars in compliance costs” the majority highlights were vastly outweighed by the Plan’s projected benefits.  Ante, at 10; see 80 Fed. Reg. 64679 (anticipating $5–$8 billion in costs and $32–$54 billion in benefits by 2030); see also EPA, Regulatory Impact Analysis for the Clean Power Plan Final Rule 6–35 (2015) (estimating that by 2030 jobs gained from the Plan would be some two or three times greater than jobs lost). 

7
 The majority dismisses these hypotheticals as fantastical, protesting that “EPA has never ordered anything remotely like [them], and we doubt it could.”  Ante, at 24, n. 3.  But that’s just the point.  EPA hasn’t forced the elimination of coal plants—whether through technological controls or generation shifting—because the statutory constraints prevent it from doing so.  The majority offers no reason to think that those constraints suffice for the measures it approves (fuel switching and carbon capture) but not for the measure it rejects (generation shifting).  Either the constraints are enough or they are not.  The majority cannot have it both ways. 

8
 The majority opinion at least addresses the statute’s text, though overstating its ambiguity and approaching the action taken under it with unwarranted “skepticism.”  Ante, at 28; see ante, at 28–31.  The concurrence, by contrast, concludes that the Clean Air Act does not clearly enough authorize EPA’s Plan without ever citing the statutory text.  See ante, at 13–16.  Nowhere will you find the concurrence ask: What does the phrase “best system of emission reduction” mean?  §7411(a)(1).  So much for “begin[ning], as we must, with a careful examination of the statutory text.”  Henson v. Santander Consumer USA Inc.,

582 U.S. 79, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 3). 


