::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-041
::decision_cite:: 20-1650
::decision_name::  Concepcion v. United States
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–1650

															_________________

															CARLOS CONCEPCION, PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit

															[June 27, 2022]

															

															Justice Kavanaugh, with whom The Chief Justice, Justice Alito, and Justice Barrett join, dissenting.

															Beginning in the mid-1980s, Congress prescribed higher criminal sentences for crack-cocaine offenses than for powder-cocaine offenses involving the same amounts of cocaine.  In 2010, Congress enacted the Fair Sentencing Act to narrow that crack/powder disparity by lowering the sentencing ranges for certain crack-cocaine offenses.  But the Act lowered those crack-cocaine sentencing ranges only prospectively—that is, for crack-cocaine offenders who were sentenced on or after the Act’s effective date of August 3, 2010.

															The First Step Act of 2018 changed that.  It provided that the 2010 Fair Sentencing Act’s lower crack-cocaine sentencing ranges would also apply retroactively to offenders who were sentenced before August 3, 2010.  But how to implement that change?  Congress did not mandate a specific across-the-board reduction to all pre-August 3, 2010, crack-cocaine sentences.  Instead, the First Step Act authorized district courts, on motion, to “impose a reduced sentence as if ” the lower sentencing ranges for crack-cocaine offenses “were in effect at the time the covered offense was committed.”  §404(b),

132Stat.
5222.

															The straightforward question in this case is whether district courts in First Step Act sentence-modification proceedings may reduce sentences based not only on the changes to the crack-cocaine sentencing ranges, but also on other unrelated legal or factual changes that have occurred since the original sentencing.  For many crack-cocaine offenders who were sentenced before August 3, 2010, the most significant such change is a non-retroactive 2016 Sentencing Guidelines amendment that substantially altered the career-offender guideline and would significantly lower many of those offenders’ Guidelines ranges.  See United States Sentencing Commission, Guidelines Manual, App. C, Amdt. 798 (Nov. 2021).

															The Court today concludes that district courts in First Step Act sentence-modification proceedings may reduce sentences based not only on the changes to the crack-cocaine sentencing ranges, but also on other unrelated legal or factual changes that have occurred since the original sentencing.

															I respectfully disagree.  The text of the First Step Act authorizes district courts to reduce sentences based only on changes to the crack-cocaine sentencing ranges, not based on other unrelated changes that have occurred since the original sentencing.  In other words, the First Step Act directs district courts to answer one fundamental question:  What would the offender’s sentence have been if the lower crack-cocaine sentencing ranges had been in effect back at the time of the original sentencing?

															The Court sidesteps the text of the Act and equates sentence-modification proceedings with plenary sentencing proceedings.  But as this Court has recognized, there are “fundamental differences between sentencing and sentence-modification proceedings.”  Dillon v. United States,

560 U.S. 817, 830 (2010).  The finality of criminal judgments is essential to the operation of the criminal justice system.  See Calderon v. Thompson,

523 U.S. 538, 555–556 (1998); United States v. Frady,

456 U.S. 152, 166 (1982).  Once a federal sentence becomes final, a court may alter that sentence “only in very limited circumstances.”  Pepper v. United States,

562 U.S. 476, 501–502, n. 14 (2011).  As relevant here, Congress has made clear that courts may reduce “an imposed term of imprisonment to the extent” such a reduction is “expressly permitted by statute.”

18 U. S. C. §3582(c)(1)(B) (emphasis added).

															The First Step Act states that the district court “may . . . impose a reduced sentence as if ” the lower sentencing ranges for crack-cocaine offenses “were in effect at the time the covered offense was committed.”  §404(b),

132Stat.
5222.  By its terms, the First Step Act authorizes consideration only of the lower sentencing ranges for crack-cocaine offenses.  The First Step Act does not authorize consideration of unrelated intervening legal or factual changes.  Indeed, the relevant provision of the First Step Act does not mention changes other than the lower sentencing ranges for crack-cocaine offenses.  Therefore, the First Step Act does not “expressly permi[t]” reductions based on those unrelated intervening changes.

18 U. S. C. §3582(c)(1)(B).

															In support of its conclusion that district courts in First Step Act sentence-modification proceedings may consider other unrelated changes, the Court cites Pepper and similar decisions.  See ante, at 8–9.  But those decisions involved resentencings, not sentence-modification proceedings.  See Pepper, 562 U. S., at 486–487.  Those cases therefore do not support the Court’s approach here.  To reiterate, for sentence-modification proceedings, Congress has declared that courts may reduce a sentence only as “expressly permitted by statute.”

18 U. S. C. §3582(c)(1)(B).  And the First Step Act does not authorize consideration of unrelated intervening legal or factual changes since the original sentencing.

															The Court’s disregard of the text of the First Step Act and §3582(c)(1)(B) will create significant and inexplicable sentencing inequities.  Consider the following.  First Step Act sentence-modification proceedings are available only for offenders who were sentenced before August 3, 2010.  So a crack-cocaine offender such as Concepcion who was sentenced before August 3, 2010, may now obtain the benefit of the non-retroactive 2016 change to the career-offender guideline.  But a crack-cocaine offender who was sentenced from August 3, 2010, to July 31, 2016, will not be able to obtain the benefit of the non-retroactive 2016 change to the career-offender guideline.  What sense does that make?  That anomalous outcome will amount to a “haphazard windfall” for crack-cocaine offenders sentenced before August 3, 2010.  United States v. Lancaster, 997 F.3d 171, 180 (CA4 2021) (Wilkinson, J., concurring in judgment).

															Still more inequities will ensue because the Court affords district courts blanket discretion to choose between two vastly different approaches to First Step Act proceedings.  To be sure, the Court properly notes that district courts must begin a First Step Act proceeding by calculating the new Guidelines range based solely on the changes to the crack-cocaine sentencing ranges.  See ante, at 14, n. 6.  So far, so good.  But district courts then have free rein either to take into account—or to completely disregard—other intervening changes since the original sentencing.

															Needless to say, different district courts will choose different approaches.  The Court’s decision will therefore produce massive inequities in how the First Step Act is implemented on the ground.  Those inequities further illustrate why today’s decision is wrong as a matter of statutory interpretation:  Congress enacted the First Step Act to provide a targeted retroactive reduction in crack-cocaine sentencing ranges, not to unleash a sentencing free-for-all in the lower courts.

															The Court’s disregard of the text of the First Step Act is especially audacious because the Act was a heavily negotiated and vigorously debated piece of legislation.  The Act reflects a compromise among competing interests.  Not for the first time in a sentencing case, the Court’s decision today unravels the legislative compromise reflected in the statutory text.  The Court in effect green-lights district courts, if they wish, to make the 2016 amendment to the career-offender guideline retroactive in First Step Act proceedings—even though neither Congress nor the Sentencing Commission has made that amendment retroactive.  Perhaps the Court’s decision represents better sentencing policy.  Perhaps not.  But under the Constitution’s separation of powers, this Court may not simply rewrite the First Step Act as the Court thinks best.

															In sum, I would conclude that the First Step Act authorizes district courts to reduce a sentence based on changes to the crack-cocaine sentencing ranges, but not based on other unrelated legal or factual changes since the original sentencing.  The Court holds otherwise.  Therefore, I respectfully dissent.
													
