::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-051
::decision_cite:: 20-107
::decision_name::  Cedar Point Nursery v. Hassid
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–107

															_________________

															CEDAR POINT NURSERY, et al., PETITIONERS v. VICTORIA HASSID, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 23, 2021]

															

															Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Sotomayor and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															A California regulation provides that representatives of a labor organization may enter an agricultural employer’s property for purposes of union organizing.  They may do so during four months of the year, one hour before the start of work, one hour during an employee lunch break, and one hour after work.  The question before us is how to characterize this regulation for purposes of the Constitution’s Takings Clause.

															Does the regulation physically appropriate the employers’ property?  If so, there is no need to look further; the Government must pay the employers “just compensation.”  U. S. Const., Amdt. 5; see Arkansas Game and Fish Comm’n v. United States,

568 U.S. 23, 31 (2012) (“ ‘[W]hen the government physically takes possession of an interest in property for some public purpose, it has a categorical duty to compensate the former owner’ ”).  Or does the regulation simply regulate the employers’ property rights?  If so, then there is every need to look further; the government need pay the employers “just compensation” only if the regulation “goes too far.”  Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon,

260 U.S. 393, 415 (1922) (Holmes, J., for the Court); see also Penn Central Transp. Co. v. New York City,

438 U.S. 104, 124 (1978) (determining whether a regulation is a taking by examining the regulation’s “economic impact,” the extent of interference with “investment-backed expectations,” and the “character of the governmental action”); Arkansas Game and Fish Comm’n, 568 U. S., at 38–39 (listing factors relevant to the character of the regulation).

															The Court holds that the provision’s “access to organizers” requirement amounts to a physical appropriation of property.  In its view, virtually every government-authorized invasion is an “appropriation.”  But this regulation does not “appropriate” anything; it regulates the employers’ right to exclude others.  At the same time, our prior cases make clear that the regulation before us allows only a temporary invasion of a landowner’s property and that this kind of temporary invasion amounts to a taking only if it goes “too far.”  See, e.g., Loretto v. Teleprompter Manhattan CATV Corp.,

458 U.S. 419, 434 (1982).  In my view, the majority’s conclusion threatens to make many ordinary forms of regulation unusually complex or impractical.  And though the majority attempts to create exceptions to narrow its rule, see ante, at 17–20, the law’s need for feasibility suggests that the majority’s framework is wrong.  With respect, I dissent from the majority’s conclusion that the regulation is a per se taking.

															I

															“In view of the nearly infinite variety of ways in which government actions or regulations can affect property interests, the Court has recognized few invariable rules in this area.”  Arkansas Game and Fish Comm’n, 568 U. S., at 31; see also Kaiser Aetna v. United States,

444 U.S. 164, 175 (1979) (“[T]his Court has generally ‘been unable to develop any “set formula” for determining when “justice and fairness” require that economic injuries caused by public action be compensated by the government’ ”).  Instead, most government action affecting property rights is analyzed case by case under Penn Central’s fact-intensive test.  Petitioners do not argue that the provision at issue is a “regulatory taking” under that test.

															Instead, the question before us is whether the access regulation falls within one of two narrow categories of government conduct that are per se takings.  The first is when “ ‘the government directly appropriates private property for its own use.’ ”  Horne v. Department of Agriculture,

576 U.S. 351, 357 (2015).  The second is when the government causes a permanent physical occupation of private property.  See Lingle v. Chevron U. S. A. Inc.,

544 U.S. 528, 538 (2005).  It does not.

															A

															Initially it may help to look at the legal problem—a problem of characterization—through the lens of ordinary English.  The word “regulation” rather than “appropriation” fits this provision in both label and substance.  Cf. ante, at 6. It is contained in Title 8 of the California Code of Regulations.  It was adopted by a state regulatory board, namely, the California Agricultural Labor Relations Board, in 1975.  It is embedded in a set of related detailed regulations that describe and limit the access at issue.  In addition to the hours of access just mentioned, it provides that union representatives can enter the property only “for the purpose of meeting and talking with employees and soliciting their support”; they have access only to “areas in which employees congregate before and after working” or “at such location or locations as the employees eat their lunch”; and they cannot engage in “conduct disruptive of the employer’s property or agricultural operations, including injury to crops or machinery or interference with the process of boarding buses.”  §§20900(e), (e)(3), (e)(4)(C) (2021).  From the employers’ perspective, it restricts when and where they can exclude others from their property.

															At the same time, the provision only awkwardly fits the terms “physical taking” and “physical appropriation.”  The “access” that it grants union organizers does not amount to any traditional property interest in land.  It does not, for example, take from the employers, or provide to the organizers, any freehold estate (e.g., a fee simple, fee tail, or life estate); any concurrent estate (e.g., a joint tenancy, tenancy in common, or tenancy by the entirety); or any leasehold estate (e.g., a term of years, periodic tenancy, or tenancy at will).  See J. Dukeminier, J. Krier, G. Alexander, M. Schill, & L. Strahilevitz, Property 215–216, 222–224, 226, 343–345, 443–445 (8th ed. 2014).  Nor (as all now agree) does it provide the organizers with a formal easement or access resembling an easement, as the employers once argued, since it does not burden any particular parcel of property.  See, e.g., Balestra v. Button, 54 Cal. App. 2d 192, 197 (1942) (the burden of an easement in gross is appurtenant to “the real property of another”); Restatement (Third) of Property: Servitudes §1.2(3) (1998) (“The burden of an easement or profit is always appurtenant”); see also ante, at 13 (acknowledging a “slight mismatch from state easement law”).  Compare Pet. for Cert. i (asking the Court to address “whether the uncompensated appropriation of an easement that is limited in time effects a per se physical taking under the
 
Fifth Amendment”), with Reply Brief 8 (“[T]he access required here does not bear all the hallmarks of an easement”).

															The majority concludes that the regulation nonetheless amounts to a physical taking of property because, the majority says, it “appropriates” a “right to invade” or a “right to exclude” others.  See ante, at 7, 12, 14, 15, 16, 20 (right to invade); ante, at 7, 8, 10, 13, 16 (right to exclude).  It thereby likens this case to cases in which we have held that appropriation of property rights amounts to a physical per se taking.  See ante, at 5–6 (citing United States v. Pewee Coal Co.,

341 U.S. 114, 115 (1951) (plurality opinion) (seizure and operation of a coal mine by the United States); United States v. General Motors Corp.,

323 U.S. 373, 375 (1945) (condemnation of a warehouse building by the United States); Horne, 576 U. S., at 361 (transfer of “[a]ctual raisins,” and title to the raisins, from growers to the Government)).

															It is important to understand, however, that, technically speaking, the majority is wrong.  The regulation does not appropriate anything.  It does not take from the owners a right to invade (whatever that might mean).  It does not give the union organizations the right to exclude anyone.  It does not give the government the right to exclude anyone.  What does it do?  It gives union organizers the right temporarily to invade a portion of the property owners’ land.  It thereby limits the landowners’ right to exclude certain others.  The regulation regulates (but does not appropriate) the owners’ right to exclude.

															Why is it important to understand this technical point?  Because only then can we understand the issue before us.  That issue is whether a regulation that temporarily limits an owner’s right to exclude others from property automatically amounts to a
 
Fifth Amendment taking.  Under our cases, it does not.

															B

															Our cases draw a distinction between regulations that provide permanent rights of access and regulations that provide nonpermanent rights of access.  They either state or hold that the first type of regulation is a taking per se, but the second kind is a taking only if it goes “too far.”  And they make this distinction for good reason.

															Consider the Court’s reasoning in an important case in which the Court found a per se taking.  In Loretto, the Court considered the status of a New York law that required landlords to permit cable television companies to install cable facilities on their property.  458 U. S., at 421.  We held that the installation amounted to a permanent physical occupation of the property and hence to a per se taking.  See id., at 441 (“affirm[ing] the traditional rule that a permanent physical occupation of property is a taking”); see also id., at 427 (tracing that rule back to 1872).  In reaching this holding we specifically said that “[n]ot every physical invasion is a taking.”  Id., at 435, n. 12 (emphasis deleted); see also ante, at 11 (acknowledging that this “point is well taken”).  We explained that the “permanence and absolute exclusivity of a physical occupation distinguish it from temporary limitations on the right to exclude.”  Loretto, 458 U. S., at 435, n. 12.  And we provided an example of a federal statute that did not effect a per se taking—an example almost identical to the regulation before us.  That statute provided “ ‘access . . . limited to (i) union organizers; (ii) prescribed non-working areas of the employer’s premises; and (iii) the duration of the organization activity.’ ”  Id., at 434, n. 11 (quoting Central Hardware Co. v. NLRB,

407 U.S. 539, 545 (1972)).

															We also explained why permanent physical occupations are distinct from temporary limitations on the right to exclude.  We said that, when the government permanently occupies property, it “does not simply take a single ‘strand’ from the ‘bundle’ of property rights: it chops through the bundle, taking a slice of every strand,” “effectively destroy[ing]” “the rights ‘to possess, use and dispose of it.’ ”  Loretto, 458 U. S., at 435.  We added that the property owner “ha[d] no right to possess the occupied space himself, and also ha[d] no power to exclude the occupier from possession and use of the space.”  Ibid.  The requirement “forever denie[d] the owner any power to control the use of the property” or make any “nonpossessory use” of it.  Id., at 436. It would “ordinarily empty the right” to sell or transfer the occupied space “of any value, since the purchaser w[ould] also be unable to make any use of the property.”  Ibid.  The owner could not “exercise control” over the equipment’s installation, and so could not “minimize [its] physical, esthetic, and other effects.”  Id., at 441, n. 19.  Thus, we concluded, a permanent physical occupation “is perhaps the most serious form of invasion of an owner’s property interests.”  Id., at 435.

															Now consider PruneYard Shopping Center v. Robins,

447 U.S. 74 (1980).  We there considered the status of a state constitutional requirement that a privately owned shopping center permit other individuals to enter upon, and to use, the property to exercise their rights to free speech and petition.  See id., at 78.  We held that this requirement was not a per se taking in part because (even though the individuals may have “ ‘physically invaded’ ” the owner’s property) “[t]here [wa]s nothing to suggest that preventing [the owner] from prohibiting this sort of activity w[ould] unreasonably impair the value or use of th[e ] property as a shopping center,” and the owner could “adop[t ] time, place, and manner regulations that w[ould] minimize any interference with its commercial functions.”  Id., at 83–84; see also Loretto, 458 U. S., at 434 (describing the “invasion” in PruneYard as “temporary and limited in nature”).

															In Nollan v. California Coastal Comm’n,

483 U.S. 825 (1987), we held that the State’s taking of an easement across a landowner’s property did constitute a per se taking.  But consider the Court’s reason: “[I]ndividuals are given a permanent and continuous right to pass to and fro.”  Id., at 832 (emphasis added). We clarified that by “permanent” and “continuous” we meant that the “real property may continuously be traversed, even though no particular individual is permitted to station himself permanently upon the premises.”  Ibid.

															In Arkansas Game and Fish Comm’n,

568 U.S. 23, we again said that permanent physical occupations are per se takings, but temporary invasions are not.  Rather, they “ ‘are subject to a more complex balancing process to determine whether they are a taking.’ ”  Id., at 36; see also id., at 38–39 (courts should consider the length of the invasion, the “degree to which the invasion is intended or is the foreseeable result of authorized government action,” “the character of the land at issue,” “the owner’s ‘reasonable investment-backed expectations’ regarding the land’s use,” and the “[s]everity of the interference” (citing, inter alia, Penn Central, 438 U. S., at 130–131)).

															As these cases have used the terms, the regulation here at issue provides access that is “temporary,” not “permanent.”  Unlike the regulation in Loretto, it does not place a “fixed structure on land or real property.”  458 U. S., at 437.  The employers are not “forever denie[d]” “any power to control the use” of any particular portion of their property.  Id., at 436.  And it does not totally reduce the value of any section of the property.  Ibid.  Unlike in Nollan, the public cannot walk over the land whenever it wishes; rather a subset of the public may enter a portion of the land three hours per day for four months per year (about 4% of the time).  At bottom, the regulation here, unlike the regulations in Loretto and Nollan, is not “functionally equivalent to the classic taking in which government directly appropriates private property or ousts the owner from his domain.”  Lingle, 544 U. S., at 539.

															At the same time, PruneYard’s holding that the taking was “temporary” (and hence not a per se taking) fits this case almost perfectly.  There the regulation gave non- owners the right to enter privately owned property for the purpose of speaking generally to others, about matters of their choice, subject to reasonable time, place, and manner restrictions.  447 U. S., at 83.  The regulation before us grants a far smaller group of people the right to enter landowners’ property for far more limited times in order to speak about a specific subject.  Employers have more power to control entry by setting work hours, lunch hours, and places of gathering.  On the other hand, as the majority notes, the shopping center in PruneYard was open to the public generally.  See ante, at 14–15. All these factors, however, are the stuff of which regulatory-balancing, not absolute per se, rules are made.

															Our cases have recognized, as the majority says, that the right to exclude is a “ ‘fundamental element of the property right.’ ”  Ante, at 16.  For that reason, “[a] ‘taking’ may more readily be found when the interference with property can be characterized as a physical invasion by government.”  Penn Central, 438 U. S., at 124 (emphasis added); see also Loretto, 458 U. S., at 426 (“[W]e have long considered a physical intrusion by government to be a property restriction of an unusually serious character for purposes of the Takings Clause”). But a taking is not inevitably found just because the interference with property can be characterized as a physical invasion by the government, or, in other words, when it affects the right to exclude.

															The majority refers to other cases.  But those cases do not help its cause.  That is because the Court in those cases (some of which preceded Penn Central and others of which I have discussed above) did not apply a “per se takings” approach.  But see ante, at 14 (claiming that our “traditional rule” is that when “the government appropriate[s] a right to invade, compensation [i]s due”).  In United States v. Causby,

328 U.S. 256, 259 (1946), for example, the question was whether government flights over a piece of land constituted a taking.  The flights amounted to 4% of the takeoffs, and 7% of the landings, at a nearby airport.  See ibid.  But the planes flew “in considerable numbers and rather close together.”  Ibid.  And the flights were “so low and so frequent as to be a direct and immediate interference with the enjoyment and use of the land.”  Id., at 266.  Taken together, those flights “destr[oyed] the use of the property as a commercial chicken farm.”  Id., at 259.  Based in part on that economic damage, the Court found that the rule allowing these overflights went “too far.”  See id., at 266 (“ ‘[I]t is the character of the invasion, not the amount of damage resulting from it, so long as the damage is substantial, that determines the question whether it is a taking’ ” (emphasis added)).

															In Portsmouth Harbor Land & Hotel Co. v. United States,

260 U.S. 327, 329 (1922), the Court held that the Government’s firing of guns across private property would be a taking only if the shots were sufficiently frequent to establish an “intent to fire across the claimants’ land at will.”  The frequency of the projectiles itself mattered less than whether the Government acted “ ‘with the purpose and effect of subordinating the strip of land . . . to the right and privilege of the Government to fire projectiles directly across it for the purpose of practice or otherwise, whenever it saw fit, in time of peace, with the result of depriving the owner of its profitable use.’ ”  Ibid. (emphasis added).  Again, the Court balanced several factors—permanence, severity, and economic impact—rather than treating the mere fact of entry as dispositive.

															In Kaiser Aetna v. United States,

444 U.S. 164, the Court considered whether the Government had taken property by converting a formerly “private pond” (with a private access fee) into a “public aquatic park” (with free navigation-related access for the public).  Id., at 176, 180.  The Court held there was a taking.  But in doing so, it applied a Penn Central, not a per se, analysis.  The Court wrote that “[m]ore than one factor contribute[d] to” the conclusion that the Government had gone “far beyond ordinary regulation or improvement.”  444 U. S., at 178.  And it found there was a taking.

															If there is ambiguity in these cases, it concerns whether the Court considered the occupation at issue to be temporary (requiring Penn Central’s “too far” analysis) or permanent (automatically requiring compensation).  Nothing in them suggests the majority’s view, namely, that compensation is automatically required for a temporary right of access.  Nor does anything in them support the distinction that the majority gleans between “trespass” and “takings.”  See ante, at 17–18; see also infra, at 14.

															The majority also refers to Nollan as support for its claim that the “fact that a right to take access is exercised only from time to time does not make it any less a physical taking.”  Ante, at 12.  True.  Here, however, unlike in Nollan, the right taken is not a right to have access to the property at any time (which access different persons “exercis[e] . . . from time to time”).  Rather here we have a right that does not allow access at any time.  It allows access only from “time to time.”  And that makes all the difference.  A right to enter my woods whenever you wish is a right to use that property permanently, even if you exercise that right only on occasion.  A right to enter my woods only on certain occasions is not a right to use the woods permanently.  In the first case one might reasonably use the term per se taking.  It is as if my woods are yours.  In the second case it is a taking only if the regulation allowing it goes “too far,” considering the factors we have laid out in Penn Central.  That is what our cases say.

															Finally, the majority says that Nollan would have come out the same way had it involved, similar to the regulation here, access short of 365 days a year.  See ante, at 11.  Perhaps so.  But, if so, that likely would be because the Court would have viewed the access as an “easement,” and therefore an appropriation.  See Nollan, 483 U. S., at 828.  Or, perhaps, the Court would have viewed the regulation as going “too far.”  I can assume, purely for argument’s sake, that that is so.  But the law is clear: A regulation that provides temporary, not permanent, access to a landowner’s property, and that does not amount to a taking of a traditional property interest, is not a per se taking.  That is, it does not automatically require compensation.  Rather, a court must consider whether it goes “too far.”

															C

															The persistence of the permanent/temporary distinction that I have described is not surprising.  That distinction serves an important purpose.  We live together in  communities.  (Approximately 80% of Americans live in  urban areas.  U. S. Census Bureau, Urban Area Facts (Mar. 30, 2021), https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/ geography/guidance/geo-areas/urban-rural/ua-facts.html.)  Modern life in these communities requires different kinds of regulation.  Some, perhaps many, forms of regulation require access to private property (for government officials or others) for different reasons and for varying periods of time.  Most such temporary-entry regulations do not go “too far.”  And it is impractical to compensate every property owner for any brief use of their land.  As we have frequently said, “[g]overnment hardly could go on if to some extent values incident to property could not be diminished without paying for every such change in the general law.”  Pennsylvania Coal Co., 260 U. S., at 413; see also, e.g., Murr v. Wisconsin, 582 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2017) (slip op., at 8–9) (same); Lingle, 544 U. S., at 538 (same); Tahoe-Sierra Preservation Council, Inc. v. Tahoe Regional Planning Agency,

535 U.S. 302, 335 (2002) (same); Dolan v. City of Tigard,

512 U.S. 374, 384–385 (1994) (same); Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council,

505 U.S. 1003, 1018 (1992) (same); Andrus v. Allard,

444 U.S. 51, 65 (1979) (same); Penn Central, 438 U. S, at 124 (same).  Thus, the law has not, and should not, convert all temporary-access-permitting regulations into per se takings automatically requiring compensation.  See, e.g., Hodel v. Irving,

481 U.S. 704, 713 (1987) (“This Court has held that the Government has considerable latitude in regulating property rights in ways that may adversely affect the owners”).

															Consider the large numbers of ordinary regulations in a host of different fields that, for a variety of purposes, permit temporary entry onto (or an “invasion of ”) a property owner’s land.  They include activities ranging from examination of food products to inspections for compliance with preschool licensing requirements.  See, e.g.,

29 U. S. C. §657(a) (authorizing inspections and investigations of “any . . . workplace or environment where work is performed” during “regular working hours and at other reasonable times”);

21 U. S. C. §606(a) (authorizing “examination and inspection of all meat food products . . . at all times, by day or night”);

42 U. S. C. §5413(b) (authorizing inspections anywhere “manufactured homes are manufactured, stored, or held for sale” at “reasonable times and without advance notice”); Miss. Code Ann. §49–27–63 (2012) (authorizing inspections of “coastal wetlands” “from time to time”); Mich. Comp. Laws §208.1435(5) (2010) (authorizing inspections of any “historic resource” “at any time during the rehabilitation process”); Mont. Code Ann. §81–22–304 (2019) (granting a “right of entry . . . [into] any premises where dairy products . . . are produced, manufactured, [or] sold” “during normal business hours”); Neb. Rev. Stat. §43–1303(5) (2016) (authorizing visitation of “foster care facilities in order to ascertain whether the individual physical, psychological, and sociological needs of each foster child are being met”); Va. Code Ann. §22.1–289.032(C)(8) (Cum. Supp. 2020) (authorizing “annual inspection” of “preschool programs of accredited private schools”); Cincinnati, Ohio, Municipal Code §603–1 (2021) (authorizing entry “at any time” for any place in which “animals are slaughtered”); Dallas, Tex., Code of Ordinance §33–5(a) (2021) (authorizing inspection of “assisted living facilit[ies]” “at reasonable times”); 6 N. Y. Rules & Regs. §360.7 (Supp. 2020) (authorizing inspection of solid waste management facilities “at all reasonable times, locations, whether announced or unannounced”); see also Boise Cascade Corp. v. United States, 296 F.3d 1339, 1352 (CA Fed. 2002) (affirming an injunction requiring property owner to allow Government agents to enter its property to conduct owl surveys); Brief for Respondents 43–44, 46 (collecting similar regulations); App. to Brief for Local Governments as Amici Curiae 1–13 (same); Brief for Virginia et al. as Amici Curiae 3–6 (same).

															The majority tries to deal with the adverse impact of treating these, and other, temporary invasions as if they were per se physical takings by creating a series of exceptions from its per se rule.  It says: (1) “Isolated physical invasions, not undertaken pursuant to a granted right of access, are properly assessed as individual torts rather than appropriations of a property right.”  Ante, at 17.  It also would except from its per se rule (2) government access that is “consistent with longstanding background restrictions on property rights,” including “traditional common law privileges to access private property.”  Ante, at 18–19.  And it adds that (3) “the government may require property owners to cede a right of access as a condition of receiving certain benefits, without causing a taking.”  Ante, at 19.  How well will this new system work?  I suspect that the majority has substituted a new, complex legal scheme for a comparatively simpler old one.

															As to the first exception, what will count as “isolated”?  How is an “isolated physical invasion” different from a “temporary” invasion, sufficient under present law to invoke Penn Central?  And where should one draw the line between trespass and takings?  Imagine a school bus that stops to allow public school children to picnic on private land.  Do three stops a year place the stops outside the exception?  One stop every week?  Buses from one school?  From every school?  Under current law a court would know what question to ask.  The stops are temporary; no one assumes a permanent right to stop; thus the court will ask whether the school district has gone “too far.”  Under the majority’s approach, the court must answer a new question (apparently about what counts as “isolated”).

															As to the second exception, a court must focus on “traditional common law privileges to access private property.”  Just what are they?  We have said before that the government can, without paying compensation, impose a limitation on land that “inhere[s] in the title itself, in the restrictions that background principles of the State’s law of property and nuisance already place upon land ownership.”  Lucas, 505 U. S., at 1029.  But we defined a very narrow set of such background principles.  See ibid., and n. 16 (abatement of nuisances and cases of “ ‘actual necessity’ ” or “to forestall other grave threats to the lives and property of others”).  To these the majority adds “public or private necessity,” the enforcement of criminal law “under certain circumstances,” and reasonable searches.  Ante, at 19.  Do only those exceptions that existed in, say, 1789 count?  Should courts apply those privileges as they existed at that time, when there were no union organizers?  Or do we bring some exceptions (but not others) up to date, e.g., a necessity exception for preserving animal habitats?

															As to the third, what is the scope of the phrase “certain benefits”?  Does it include the benefit of being able to sell meat labeled “inspected” in interstate commerce?  But see Horne, 576 U. S., at 366 (concluding that “[s]elling produce in interstate commerce” is “not a special governmental benefit”).  What about the benefit of having electricity?  Of sewage collection?  Of internet accessibility?  Myriad regulatory schemes based on just these sorts of benefits depend upon intermittent, temporary government entry onto private property.

															Labor peace (brought about through union organizing) is one such benefit, at least in the view of elected representatives.  They wrote laws that led to rules governing the organizing of agricultural workers.  Many of them may well have believed that union organizing brings with it “benefits,” including community health and educational benefits, higher standards of living, and (as I just said) labor peace.  See, e.g., 1975 Cal. Stats. ch. 1, §1 (stating that the purpose of the Agricultural Labor Relations Act was to “ensure peace in the agricultural fields by guaranteeing justice for all agricultural workers and stability in labor relations”).  A landowner, of course, may deny the existence of these benefits, but a landowner might do the same were a regulatory statute to permit brief access to verify proper preservation of wetlands or the habitat enjoyed by an endangered species or, for that matter, the safety of inspected meat.  So, if a regulation authorizing temporary access for purposes of organizing agricultural workers falls outside of the Court’s exceptions and is a per se taking, then to what other forms of regulation does the Court’s per se conclusion also apply?

															II

															Finally, I touch briefly on remedies, which the majority does not address.  The Takings Clause prohibits the Government from taking private property for public use without “just compensation.”  U. S. Const., Amdt. 5.  But the employers do not seek compensation.  They seek only injunctive and declaratory relief.  Indeed, they did not allege any damages.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. G–16 to G–17.  On remand, California should have the choice of foreclosing injunctive relief by providing compensation.  See, e.g., Knick v. Township of Scott, 588 U. S. __, __ (2019) (slip op., at 23) (“As long as just compensation remedies are available—as they have been for nearly 150 years—injunctive relief will be foreclosed”).

															*  *  *

															I recognize that the Court’s prior cases in this area are not easy to apply.  Moreover, words such as “temporary,” “permanent,” or “too far” do not define themselves.  But I do not believe that the Court has made matters clearer or better.  Rather than adopt a new broad rule and indeterminate exceptions, I would stick with the approach that I believe the Court’s case law sets forth.  “Better the devil we know . . . .” A right of access such as the right at issue here, a nonpermanent right, is not automatically a “taking.”  It is a regulation that falls within the scope of Penn Central.  Because the Court takes a different view, I respectfully dissent.
													
