::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-039
::decision_cite:: 20-1800
::decision_name::  Shurtleff v. Boston
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–1800

															_________________

															HAROLD SHURTLEFF, et al., PETITIONERS v. CITY OF BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit

															[May 2, 2022]

															

															Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.

															When the government encourages diverse expression—say, by creating a forum for debate—the
 
First Amendment prevents it from discriminating against speakers based on their viewpoint.  See Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of Univ. of Va.,

515 U.S. 819, 828–830 (1995).  But when the government speaks for itself, the
 
First Amendment does not demand airtime for all views.  After all, the government must be able to “promote a program” or “espouse a policy” in order to function.  Walker v. Texas Div., Sons of Confederate Veterans, Inc.,

576 U.S. 200, 208 (2015).  The line between a forum for private expression and the government’s own speech is important, but not always clear.

															This case concerns a flagpole outside Boston City Hall.  For years, Boston has allowed private groups to request use of the flagpole to raise flags of their choosing.  As part of this program, Boston approved hundreds of requests to raise dozens of different flags.  The city did not deny a single request to raise a flag until, in 2017, Harold Shurtleff, the director of a group called Camp Constitution, asked to fly a Christian flag.  Boston refused.  At that time, Boston admits, it had no written policy limiting use of the flagpole based on the content of a flag.  The parties dispute whether, on these facts, Boston reserved the pole to fly flags that communicate governmental messages, or instead opened the flagpole for citizens to express their own views.  If the former, Boston is free to choose the flags it flies without the constraints of the
 
First Amendment’s Free Speech Clause.  If the latter, the Free Speech Clause prevents Boston from refusing a flag based on its viewpoint.

															We conclude that, on balance, Boston did not make the raising and flying of private groups’ flags a form of government speech.  That means, in turn, that Boston’s refusal to let Shurtleff and Camp Constitution raise their flag based on its religious viewpoint “abridg[ed]” their “freedom of speech.”  U. S. Const., Amdt. I.

															I

															A

															The flagpole at issue stands at the entrance of Boston City Hall.  See Appendix, infra.  Built in the late 1960s, Boston City Hall is a raw concrete structure, an example of the brutalist style.  Critics of the day heralded it as a public building that “articulates its functions” with “strength, dignity, grace, and even glamor.”  J. Conti, A New City Hall: Boston’s Boost for Urban Renewal, Wall Street Journal, Feb. 12, 1969, p. 14.  (The design has since proved somewhat more controversial.  See, e.g., E. Mason, Boston City Hall Named World’s Ugliest Building, Boston Herald  (Nov. 15, 2008), https://www.bostonherald.com/2008/11/15/ boston-city-hall-named-worlds-ugliest-building.)  More to the point, Boston City Hall sits on City Hall Plaza, a 7-acre expanse paved with New England brick.  Inspired by open public spaces like the Piazza del Campo in Siena, the plaza was designed to be “ ‘Boston’s fairground,’ ” a “public gathering spac[e]” for the people.  N. DeCosta-Klipa, Why Is Boston City Hall the Way It Is? Boston.com (July 25, 2018), https://www.boston.com/news/history/2018/07/ 25/boston-city-hall-brutalism.

															On the plaza, near City Hall’s entrance, stand three 83-foot flagpoles.  Boston flies the American flag from the first pole (along with a banner honoring prisoners of war and soldiers missing in action).  From the second, it flies the flag of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  And from the third, it usually (but not always) flies Boston’s flag—a sketch of the “City on a Hill” encircled by a ring against a blue backdrop.

															Boston makes City Hall Plaza available to the public for events.  Boston acknowledges that this means the plaza is a “public forum.”  Brief for Respondents 27.  The city’s policy is, “[w]here possible,” “to accommodate all applicants seeking to take advantage of the City of Boston’s public forums,” including the plaza and the area at the flagpoles’ base.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 133a, 137a.

															For years, since at least 2005, the city has allowed groups to hold flag-raising ceremonies on the plaza.  Participants may hoist a flag of their choosing on the third flagpole (in place of the city’s flag) and fly it for the duration of the event, typically a couple of hours.  Most ceremonies have involved the flags of other countries—from Albania to Venezuela—marking the national holidays of Bostonians’ many countries of origin.  But several flag raisings have been associated with other kinds of groups or causes, such as Pride Week, emergency medical service workers, and a community bank.  All told, between 2005 and 2017, Boston approved about 50 unique flags, raised at 284 ceremonies.  Boston has no record of refusing a request before the events that gave rise to this case.  We turn now to those events.

															B

															In July 2017, Harold Shurtleff, the director of an organization called Camp Constitution, asked to hold a flag- raising event that September on City Hall Plaza.  The event would “commemorate the civic and social contributions of the Christian community” and feature remarks by local clergy.  Id., at 130a–131a.  As part of the ceremony, the organization wished to raise what it described as the “Christian flag.”  Id., at 131a.  To the event application, Shurtleff attached a photo of the proposed flag: a red cross on a blue field against a white background.

															The commissioner of Boston’s Property Management Department said no.  The problem was “not the content of the Christian flag,” but “the fact that it was the Christian flag or [was] called the Christian flag.”  App. in No. 20–1158 (CA1), at 212–213 (deposition of then-commissioner Gregory T. Rooney, hereafter Rooney deposition).  The commissioner worried that flying a religious flag at City Hall could violate the Constitution’s Establishment Clause and found no record of Boston ever having raised such a flag.  He told Shurtleff that Camp Constitution could proceed with the event if they would raise a different flag.  Needless to say, they did not want to do so.

															C

															Shurtleff and Camp Constitution (petitioners) sued Boston and the commissioner of its Property Management Department (respondents).  Petitioners claimed that Boston’s refusal to let them raise their flag violated, among other things, the
 
First Amendment’s Free Speech Clause.  They asked for an immediate order requiring Boston to allow the flag raising, but the District Court denied the request.  See 337 F. Supp. 3d 66 (Mass. 2018), aff ’d, 928 F.3d 166 (CA1 2019).  The parties engaged in discovery.  At its close, they filed cross-motions for summary judgment.  The parties agreed to all relevant facts and submitted a joint statement setting them out.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 128a–160a.

															On that record, the District Court held that flying private groups’ flags from City Hall’s third pole amounted to government speech.  See 2020 WL 555248, *5, ___ F. Supp. 3d ___, ___ (Mass., Feb. 4, 2020).  Hence, the city acted within its constitutional authority in declining to raise Camp Constitution’s flag.  Id., at *3, *5.  The District Court therefore granted summary judgment for Boston.  The First Circuit affirmed.  See 986 F.3d 78 (2021).

															Shurtleff and Camp Constitution next petitioned this Court for certiorari.  We agreed to decide whether the flags Boston allows groups to fly express government speech, and whether Boston could, consistent with the Free Speech Clause, deny petitioners’ flag-raising request.

															II

															A

															The first and basic question we must answer is whether Boston’s flag-raising program constitutes government speech.  If so, Boston may refuse flags based on viewpoint.

															The
 
First Amendment’s Free Speech Clause does not prevent the government from declining to express a view.  See Pleasant Grove City v. Summum,

555 U.S. 460, 467–469 (2009).  When the government wishes to state an opinion, to speak for the community, to formulate policies, or to implement programs, it naturally chooses what to say and what not to say.  See Walker, 576 U. S., at 207–208.  That must be true for government to work.  Boston could not easily congratulate the Red Sox on a victory were the city powerless to decline to simultaneously transmit the views of disappointed Yankees fans.  The Constitution therefore relies first and foremost on the ballot box, not on rules against viewpoint discrimination, to check the government when it speaks.  See Board of Regents of Univ. of Wis. System v. Southworth,

529 U.S. 217, 235 (2000).

															The boundary between government speech and private expression can blur when, as here, a government invites the people to participate in a program.  In those situations, when does government-public engagement transmit the government’s own message?  And when does it instead create a forum for the expression of private speakers’ views?

															In answering these questions, we conduct a holistic inquiry designed to determine whether the government intends to speak for itself or to regulate private expression.  Our review is not mechanical; it is driven by a case’s context rather than the rote application of rigid factors.  Our past cases have looked to several types of evidence to guide the analysis, including: the history of the expression at issue; the public’s likely perception as to who (the government or a private person) is speaking; and the extent to which the government has actively shaped or controlled the expression.  See Walker, 576 U. S., at 209–214.

															Considering these indicia in Summum, we held that the messages of permanent monuments in a public park constituted government speech, even when the monuments were privately funded and donated.  See 555 U. S., at 470–473.  In Walker, we explained that license plate designs proposed by private groups also amounted to government speech because, among other reasons, the State that issued the plates “maintain[ed] direct control over the messages conveyed” by “actively” reviewing designs and rejecting over a dozen proposals.  576 U. S., at 213.  In Matal v. Tam, 582 U. S. ___ (2017), on the other hand, we concluded that trademarking words or symbols generated by private registrants did not amount to government speech.  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 14–18).  Though the Patent and Trademark Office had to approve each proposed mark, it did not exercise sufficient control over the nature and content of those marks to convey a governmental message in so doing.  Ibid.  These precedents point our way today.

															B

															Applying the government-speech analysis to this record, we find that some evidence favors Boston, and other evidence favors Shurtleff.

															To begin, we look to the history of flag flying, particularly at the seat of government.  Were we to consider only that general history, we would find that it supports Boston.

															Flags are almost as old as human civilization.  Indeed, flags symbolize civilization.  From the “primordial rag dipped in the blood of a conquered enemy and lifted high on a stick,” to the feudal banner bearing a lord’s coats of arms, to the standards of the Aztecs, nearly every society has taken a piece of cloth and “endow[ed] it, through the circumstances of its display, with a condensed power” to speak for the community.  W. Smith, Flags Through the Ages and Across the World 1–2, 32, 34 (1975).  Little wonder that the Continental Congress, seeking to define a new nation, “[r]esolved” on June 14, 1777, “[t]hat the Flag of the . . . United States be thirteen stripes, alternate red and white: that the union be thirteen stars, white in a blue field, representing a new constellation.”  8 Journals of the Continental Congress 1774–1789, p. 464 (W. Ford ed. 1907).  Today, the American flag continues to symbolize our Nation, a constellation of 50 stars standing for the 50 States.

															Other contemporary flags, both state and local, reflect their communities.  Boston’s flag, for instance, bears the city’s seal and motto rendered in blue and buff—the colors of the Continental Army’s Revolutionary War uniforms.  See Symbols of the City of Boston, City of Boston (July 16, 2016), https://www.boston.gov/departments/tourism-sports- and-entertainment/symbols-city-boston (Symbols of Boston).

															Not just the content of a flag, but also its presence and position have long conveyed important messages about government.  The early morning sight of the stars and stripes above Fort McHenry told Francis Scott Key (and, through his poem, he told the rest of us) that the great experiment—the land of the free—had survived the British attack on Baltimore Harbor.  See C. Lineberry, The Story Behind the Star Spangled Banner, Smithsonian Magazine (Mar. 1, 2007).  No less familiar, a flag at halfstaff tells us that the government is paying its “respect to th[e] memory” of someone who has died.

4 U. S. C. §7(m).  (Congress has explained, across several sections of the U. S. Code, the meaning we should take from the “position,” “manner,” “time,” and “occasions” of the American flag’s display.  §§6, 7.)  And the presence of the Royal Standard flying from Windsor Castle’s Round Tower says the Queen is home.  See Windsor Castle Today, Royal Collection Trust, www.rct.uk/visit/ windsor-castle/windsor-castle-today.

															The flying of a flag other than a government’s own can also convey a governmental message.  A foreign flag outside Blair House, across the street from the White House, signals that a foreign leader is visiting and the residence has “becom[e] a de facto diplomatic mission of the guest’s home nation.”  M. French, United States Protocol: The Guide to Official Diplomatic Etiquette 298 (2010).  And, according to international custom, when flags of two or more nations are displayed together, they cannot be flown one nation above the other “in time of peace.”

4 U. S. C. §7(g).

															Keeping with this tradition, flags on Boston’s City Hall Plaza usually convey the city’s messages.  On a typical day, the American flag, the Massachusetts flag, and the City of Boston’s flag wave from three flagpoles.  Boston’s flag, when flying there at full mast, symbolizes the city.  When flying at halfstaff, it conveys a community message of sympathy or somber remembrance.  When displayed at other public buildings, it marks the mayor’s presence.  See Symbols of Boston.  The city also sometimes conveys a message by replacing its flag with another.  When Boston’s mayor lost a bet with Montreal’s about whose hockey team would win a playoff series, Boston, duty-bound in defeat, hoisted the Canadiens’ banner.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 54–55.

															While this history favors Boston, it is only our starting point.  The question remains whether, on the 20 or so times a year when Boston allowed private groups to raise their own flags, those flags, too, expressed the city’s message.  So we must examine the details of this flag-flying program.

															Next, then, we consider whether the public would tend to view the speech at issue as the government’s.  In this case, the circumstantial evidence does not tip the scale.  On an ordinary day, a passerby on Cambridge Street sees three government flags representing the Nation, State, and city.  Those flags wave “in unison, side-by-side, from matching flagpoles,” just outside “ ‘the entrance to Boston’s seat of government.’ ”  986 F. 3d, at 88.  Like the monuments in the public park in Summum, the flags “play an important role in defining the identity that [the] city projects to its own residents and to the outside world.”  555 U. S., at 472.  So, like the license plates in Walker, the public seems likely to see the flags as “ ‘conveying some message’ ” on the government’s “ ‘behalf.’ ”  576 U. S., at 212 (quoting Summum, 555 U. S., at 471).

															But as we have said, Boston allowed its flag to be lowered and other flags to be raised with some regularity.  These other flags were raised in connection with ceremonies at the flagpoles’ base and remained aloft during the events.  Petitioners say that a pedestrian glimpsing a flag other than Boston’s on the third flagpole might simply look down onto the plaza, see a group of private citizens conducting a ceremony without the city’s presence, and associate the new flag with them, not Boston.  Thus, even if the public would ordinarily associate a flag’s message with Boston, that is not necessarily true for the flags at issue here.  Again, this evidence of the public’s perception does not resolve whether Boston conveyed a city message with these flags.

															Finally, we look at the extent to which Boston actively controlled these flag raisings and shaped the messages the flags sent.  The answer, it seems, is not at all.  And that is the most salient feature of this case.

															To be sure, Boston maintained control over an event’s date and time to avoid conflicts.  It maintained control over the plaza’s physical premises, presumably to avoid chaos.  And it provided a hand crank so that groups could rig and raise their chosen flags.  But it is Boston’s control over the flags’ content and meaning that here is key; that type of control would indicate that Boston meant to convey the flags’ messages.

															On this issue, Boston’s record is thin.  Boston says that all (or at least most) of the 50 unique flags it approved reflect particular city-approved values or views.  Flying flags associated with other countries celebrated Bostonians’ many different national origins; flying other flags, Boston adds, was not “wholly unconnected” from a diversity message or “some other day or cause the City or Commonwealth had already endorsed.”  Brief for Respondents 8, 35.  That may well be true of the Pride Flag raised annually to commemorate Boston Pride Week.  See Brief for Commonwealth of Massachusetts et al. as Amici Curiae 25–26 (citing reports that the then-mayor of Boston gave remarks as the Pride Flag was raised).  But it is more difficult to discern a connection to the city as to, say, the Metro Credit Union flag raising, a ceremony by a local community bank.

															In any event, we do not settle this dispute by counting noses—or, rather, counting flags.  That is so for several reasons.  For one thing, Boston told the public that it sought “to accommodate all applicants” who wished to hold events at Boston’s “public forums,” including on City Hall Plaza.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 137a.  The application form asked only for contact information and a brief description of the event, with proposed dates and times.  The city employee who handled applications testified by deposition that he had previously “never requested to review a flag or requested changes to a flag in connection with approval”; nor did he even see flags before the events.  Id., at 150a.  The city’s practice was to approve flag raisings, without exception.  It has no record of denying a request until Shurtleff ’s.  Boston acknowledges it “hadn’t spent a lot of time really thinking about” its flag-raising practices until this case.  App. in  No. 20–1158 (CA1), at 140 (Rooney deposition).  True to its word, the city had nothing—no written policies or clear internal guidance—about what flags groups could fly and what those flags would communicate.

															Compare the extent of Boston’s control over flag raisings with the degree of government involvement in our most relevant precedents.  In Summum, we emphasized that Pleasant Grove City always selected which monuments it would place in its park (whether or not the government funded those monuments), and it typically took ownership over them.  555 U. S., at 472–473.  In Walker, a state board “maintain[ed] direct control” over license plate designs by “actively” reviewing every proposal and rejecting at least a dozen.  576 U. S., at 213.  Boston has no comparable record.

															The facts of this case are much closer to Matal v. Tam.  There, we held that trademarks were not government speech because the Patent and Trademark Office registered all manner of marks and normally did not consider their viewpoint, except occasionally to turn away marks it deemed “offensive.”  582 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 14, 22).  Boston’s come-one-come-all attitude—except, that is, for Camp Constitution’s religious flag—is similar.

															Boston could easily have done more to make clear it wished to speak for itself by raising flags.  Other cities’ flag-flying policies support our conclusion.  The City of San Jose, California, for example, provides in writing that its “ ‘flagpoles are not intended to serve as a forum for free expression by the public,’ ” and lists approved flags that may be flown “ ‘as an expression of the City’s official sentiments.’ ”  See Brief for Commonwealth of Massachusetts et al. as Amici Curiae 18.

															All told, while the historical practice of flag flying at government buildings favors Boston, the city’s lack of meaningful involvement in the selection of flags or the crafting of their messages leads us to classify the flag raisings as private, not government, speech—though nothing prevents Boston from changing its policies going forward.

															III

															Last, we consider whether Boston’s refusal to allow Shurtleff and Camp Constitution to raise their flag amounted to impermissible viewpoint discrimination.

															Boston acknowledges that it denied Shurtleff ’s request because it believed flying a religious flag at City Hall could violate the Establishment Clause.  And it admits this concern proceeded from the premise that raising the flag would express government speech.  See Brief in Opposition 23 (explaining that “viewpoint neutrality” was “incompatible” with Boston’s view of its program).  But we have rejected that premise in the preceding pages.  We must therefore consider Boston’s actions in light of our holding.

															When a government does not speak for itself, it may not exclude speech based on “religious viewpoint”; doing so “constitutes impermissible viewpoint discrimination.”  Good News Club v. Milford Central School,

533 U.S. 98, 112 (2001).  Applying that rule, we have held, for example, that a public university may not bar student-activity funds from reimbursing only religious groups.  See Rosenberger, 515 U. S., at 830–834.  Here, Boston concedes that it denied Shurtleff ’s request solely because the Christian flag he asked to raise “promot[ed] a specific religion.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 155a (quoting Rooney deposition).  Under our precedents, and in view of our government-speech holding here, that refusal discriminated based on religious viewpoint and violated the Free Speech Clause.

															*  *  *

															For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that Boston’s flag-raising program does not express government speech.  As a result, the city’s refusal to let Shurtleff and Camp Constitution fly their flag based on its religious viewpoint violated the Free Speech Clause of the
 
First Amendment.  We reverse the First Circuit’s contrary judgment and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

															

															It is so ordered.
													
