::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 20-1199
::decision_name::  Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President and Fellows of Harvard College
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 20–1199 and 21–707

															_________________

															STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC.,
PETITIONER

															20–1199v.

															PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD
COLLEGE

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the first circuit

															

															STUDENTS FOR FAIR ADMISSIONS, INC.,
PETITIONER

															21–707v.

															UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the
united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															[June 29, 2023]

															

															Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Thomas
joins, concurring.

															For many students, an acceptance letter from
Harvard or the University of North Carolina is a ticket to a
brighter future. Tens of thousands of applicants compete for a
small number of coveted spots. For some time, both universities
have decided which applicants to admit or reject based in part on
race. Today, the Court holds that the Equal Protection Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment does not tolerate this practice. I write
to emphasize that Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 does not
either.

															I

															“[F]ew pieces of federal legislation
rank in significance with the Civil Rights Act of 1964.”
Bostock v. Clayton County, 590 U. S. ___, ___
(2020) (slip op., at 2). Title VI of that law contains terms as
powerful as they are easy to understand: “No person in the
United States shall, on the ground of race, color, or national
origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits
of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity
receiving Federal financial assistance.” 42
U. S. C. §2000d. The message for these cases is
unmistakable. Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA) brought claims
against Harvard and UNC under Title VI. That law applies to both
institutions, as they elect to receive millions of dollars of
federal assistance annually. And the trial records reveal that both
schools routinely discriminate on the basis of race when choosing
new students—exactly what the law forbids.

															A

															When a party seeks relief under a statute, our
task is to apply the law’s terms as a reasonable reader would
have understood them at the time Congress enacted them.
“After all, only the words on the page constitute the law
adopted by Congress and approved by the President.”
Bostock, 590 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 4).

															The key phrases in Title VI at issue here are
“subjected to discrimination” and “on the ground
of.” Begin with the first. To “discriminate”
against a person meant in 1964 what it means today: to
“trea[t] that individual worse than others who are similarly
situated.” Id., at ___ (slip op., at 7); see also
Webster’s New International Dictionary 745 (2d ed. 1954)
(“[t]o make a distinction” or “[t]o make a
difference in treatment or favor (of one as compared with
others)”); Webster’s Third New International Dictionary
648 (1961) (“to make a difference in treatment or favor on a
class or categorical basis”). The provision of Title VI
before us, this Court has also held, “prohibits only
intentional discrimination.” Alexander v.
Sandoval, 532 U.S.
275, 280 (2001). From this, we can safely say that Title VI
forbids a recipient of federal funds from intentionally treating
one person worse than another similarly situated person on the
ground of race, color, or national origin.

															What does the statute’s second critical
phrase—“on the ground of ”—mean?
Again, the answer is uncomplicated: It means “because
of.” See, e.g., Webster’s New World Dictionary
640 (1960) (“because of ”); Webster’s Third
New International Dictionary, at 1002 (defining
“grounds” as “a logical condition, physical
cause, or metaphysical basis”). “Because
of ” is a familiar phrase in the law, one we often apply
in cases arising under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and one that
we usually understand to invoke “the ‘simple’ and
‘traditional’ standard of but-for causation.”
Bostock, 590 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (quoting
University of Tex. Southwestern Medical Center v.
Nassar, 570 U.S.
338, 346, 360 (2013); some internal quotation marks omitted).
The but-for-causation standard is a “sweeping” one too.
Bostock, 590 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5). A
defendant’s actions need not be the primary or proximate
cause of the plaintiff ’s injury to qualify. Nor may a
defendant avoid liability “just by citing some other
factor that contributed to” the plaintiff ’s loss.
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6). All that matters is that the
plaintiff ’s injury would not have happened but
for the defendant’s conduct. Ibid.

															Now put these pieces back together and a clear
rule emerges. Title VI prohibits a recipient of federal funds from
intentionally treating one person worse than another similarly
situated person because of his race, color, or national origin. It
does not matter if the recipient can point to “some other
. . . factor” that contributed to its decision to
disfavor that individual. Id., at ___–___ (slip op.,
at 14–15). It does not matter if the recipient discriminates
in order to advance some further benign “intention” or
“motivation.” Id., at ___ (slip op., at 13); see
also Automobile Workers v. Johnson Controls, Inc.,
499 U.S.
187, 199 (1991) (“the absence of a malevolent motive does
not convert a facially discriminatory policy into a neutral policy
with a discriminatory effect” or “alter [its]
intentionally discriminatory character”). Nor does it
matter if the recipient discriminates against an individual member
of a protected class with the idea that doing so might
“favor” the interests of that “class” as a
whole or otherwise “promot[e] equality at the group
level.” Bostock, 590 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip
op., at 13, 15). Title VI prohibits a recipient of federal funds
from intentionally treating any individual worse even in part
because of his race, color, or national origin and without regard
to any other reason or motive the recipient might assert. Without
question, Congress in 1964 could have taken the law in various
directions. But to safeguard the civil rights of all Americans,
Congress chose a simple and profound rule. One holding that a
recipient of federal funds may never discriminate based on race,
color, or national origin—period.

															If this exposition of Title VI sounds familiar,
it should. Just next door, in Title VII, Congress made it
“unlawful . . . for an employer . . . to
discriminate against any individual . . . because of
such individual’s race, color, religion, sex, or national
origin.” §2000e–2(a)(1). Appreciating the breadth
of this provision, just three years ago this Court read its
essentially identical terms the same way. See Bostock, 590
U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 4–9). This Court
has long recognized, too, that when Congress uses the same terms in
the same statute, we should presume they “have the same
meaning.” IBP, Inc. v. Alvarez, 546 U.S.
21, 34 (2005). And that presumption surely makes sense here,
for as Justice Stevens recognized years ago, “[b]oth Title VI
and Title VII” codify a categorical rule of “individual
equality, without regard to race.” Regents of Univ. of
Cal. v. Bakke, 438 U.S.
265, 416, n. 19 (1978) (opinion concurring in judgment in
part and dissenting in part) (emphasis deleted).

															B

															Applying Title VI to the cases now before us,
the result is plain. The parties debate certain details of
Harvard’s and UNC’s admissions practices. But no one
disputes that both universities operate “program[s] or
activit[ies] receiving Federal financial assistance.”
§2000d. No one questions that both institutions consult race
when making their admissions decisions. And no one can doubt that
both schools intentionally treat some applicants worse than others
at least in part because of their race.

															1

															Start with how Harvard and UNC use race. Like
many colleges and universities, those schools invite interested
students to complete the Common Application. As part of that
process, the trial records show, applicants are prompted to tick
one or more boxes to explain “how you identify
yourself.” 4 App. in No. 21–707, p. 1732. The available
choices are American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or
African American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander;
Hispanic or Latino; or White. Applicants can write in further
details if they choose. Ibid.; see also 397 F. Supp. 3d
126, 137 (Mass. 2019); 567 F. Supp. 3d 580, 596 (MDNC
2021).

															Where do these boxes come from? Bureaucrats. A
federal interagency commission devised this scheme of
classifications in the 1970s to facilitate data collection. See D.
Bernstein, The Modern American Law of Race, 94 S. Cal. L. Rev. 171,
196–202 (2021); see also 43 Fed. Reg. 19269 (1978). That
commission acted “without any input from anthropologists,
sociologists, ethnologists, or other experts.” Brief for
David E. Bernstein as Amicus Curiae 3 (Bernstein
Amicus Brief ). Recognizing the limitations of their
work, federal regulators cautioned that their classifications
“should not be interpreted as being scientific or
anthropological in nature, nor should they be viewed as
determinants of eligibility for participation in any Federal
program.” 43 Fed. Reg. 19269 (emphasis added). Despite
that warning, others eventually used this classification system for
that very purpose—to “sor[t] out winners and losers in
a process that, by the end of the century, would grant
preference[s] in jobs . . . and university
admissions.” H. Graham, The Origins of Official Minority
Designation, in The New Race Question: How the Census Counts
Multiracial Individuals 289 (J. Perlmann & M. Waters
eds. 2002).

															These classifications rest on incoherent
stereotypes. Take the “Asian” category. It sweeps into
one pile East Asians (e.g., Chinese, Korean, Japanese) and
South Asians (e.g., Indian, Pakistani, Bangladeshi), even
though together they constitute about 60% of the world’s
population. Bernstein Amicus Brief 2, 5. This agglomeration
of so many peoples paves over countless differences in
“language,” “culture,” and historical
experience. Id., at 5–6. It does so even though few
would suggest that all such persons share “similar
backgrounds and similar ideas and experiences.” Fisher
v. University of Tex. at Austin, 579 U.S. 365, 414 (2016)
(Alito, J., dissenting). Consider, as well, the development of a
separate category for “Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific
Islander.” It seems federal officials disaggregated these
groups from the “Asian” category only in the 1990s and
only “in response to political lobbying.” Bernstein
Amicus Brief 9–10. And even that category contains its
curiosities. It appears, for example, that Filipino Americans
remain classified as “Asian” rather than “Other
Pacific Islander.” See 4 App. in No. 21–707, at
1732.

															The remaining classifications depend just as
much on irrational stereotypes. The “Hispanic” category
covers those whose ancestral language is Spanish, Basque, or
Catalan—but it also covers individuals of Mayan, Mixtec, or
Zapotec descent who do not speak any of those languages and whose
ancestry does not trace to the Iberian Peninsula but bears deep
ties to the Americas. See Bernstein Amicus Brief
10–11. The “White” category sweeps in anyone from
“Europe, Asia west of India, and North Africa.”
Id., at 14. That includes those of Welsh, Norwegian, Greek,
Italian, Moroccan, Lebanese, Turkish, or Iranian descent. It
embraces an Iraqi or Ukrainian refugee as much as a member of the
British royal family. Meanwhile, “Black or African
American” covers everyone from a descendant of enslaved
persons who grew up poor in the rural South, to a first-generation
child of wealthy Nigerian immigrants, to a Black-identifying
applicant with multiracial ancestry whose family lives in a typical
American suburb. See id., at 15–16.

															If anything, attempts to divide us all up into a
handful of groups have become only more incoherent with time.
American families have become increasingly multicultural, a fact
that has led to unseemly disputes about whether someone is
really a member of a certain racial or ethnic group. There
are decisions denying Hispanic status to someone of
Italian-Argentine descent, Marinelli Constr. Corp. v. New
York, 200 App. Div. 2d 294, 296–297, 613 N.Y.S.2d 1000,
1002 (1994), as well as someone with one Mexican grandparent,
Major Concrete Constr., Inc. v. Erie County, 134 App.
Div. 2d 872, 873, 521 N.Y.S.2d 959, 960 (1987). Yet there are also
decisions granting Hispanic status to a Sephardic Jew whose
ancestors fled Spain centuries ago, In re Rothschild-Lynn Legal
& Fin. Servs., SBA No. 499, 1995 WL 542398, *2–*4
(Apr. 12, 1995), and bestowing a “sort of Hispanic”
status on a person with one Cuban grandparent, Bernstein, 94
S. Cal. L. Rev., at 232 (discussing In re Kist
Corp., 99 F. C. C. 2d 173, 193 (1984)).

															Given all this, is it any surprise that members
of certain groups sometimes try to conceal their race or ethnicity?
Or that a cottage industry has sprung up to help college applicants
do so? We are told, for example, that one effect of lumping so many
people of so many disparate backgrounds into the
“Asian” category is that many colleges consider
“Asians” to be “overrepresented” in their
admission pools. Brief for Asian American Coalition for Education
et al. as Amici Curiae 12–14, 18–19. Paid
advisors, in turn, tell high school students of Asian descent to
downplay their heritage to maximize their odds of admission.
“ ‘We will make them appear less Asian when they
apply,’ ” one promises. Id., at 16.
“ ‘If you’re given an option, don’t
attach a photograph to your application,’ ”
another instructs. Ibid.[1] It is difficult to imagine those who receive this
advice would find comfort in a bald (and mistaken) assurance that
“race-conscious admissions benefit . . . the Asian
American community,” post, at 60 (Sotomayor, J.,
dissenting). See 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 178 (district court
finding that “overall” Harvard’s race-conscious
admissions policy “results in fewer Asian American[s]”
being admitted). And it is hard not to wonder whether those left
paying the steepest price are those least able to afford
it—children of families with no chance of hiring the kind of
consultants who know how to play this game.[2]

															2

															Just as there is no question Harvard and UNC
consider race in their admissions processes, there is no question
both schools intentionally treat some applicants worse than others
because of their race. Both schools frequently choose to award a
“tip” or a “plus” to applicants from
certain racial groups but not others. These tips or plusses are
just what they sound like—“factors that might tip an
applicant into [an] admitted class.” 980 F.3d 157, 170 (CA1
2020). And in a process where applicants compete for a limited pool
of spots, “[a] tip for one race” necessarily works as
“a penalty against other races.” Brief for Economists
as Amici Curiae 20. As the trial court in the Harvard
case put it: “Race conscious admissions will always penalize
to some extent the groups that are not being advantaged by the
process.” 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 202–203.

															Consider how this plays out at Harvard. In a
given year, the university’s undergraduate program may
receive 60,000 applications for roughly 1,600 spots. Tr. of Oral
Arg. in No. 20–1199, p. 60. Admissions officers read
each application and rate students across several categories:
academic, extracurricular, athletic, school support, personal, and
overall. 980 F. 3d, at 167. Harvard says its admissions
officers “should not” consider race or ethnicity when
assigning the “personal” rating. Id., at 169
(internal quotation marks omitted). But Harvard did not make this
instruction explicit until after SFFA filed this suit.
Ibid. And, in any event, Harvard concedes that its
admissions officers “can and do take an
applicant’s race into account when assigning an
overall rating.” Ibid. (emphasis added). At
that stage, the lower courts found, applicants of certain races may
receive a “tip” in their favor. Ibid.

															The next step in the process is committee
review. Regional subcommittees may consider an applicant’s
race when deciding whether to recommend admission. Id., at
169–170. So, too, may the full admissions committee.
Ibid. As the Court explains, that latter committee
“discusses the relative breakdown of applicants by
race.” Ante, at 2–3. And “if at some point
in the admissions process it appears that a group is notably
underrepresented or has suffered a dramatic drop off relative to
the prior year, the [committee] may decide to give additional
attention to applications from students within that group.”
397 F. Supp. 3d, at 146.

															The last step is “lopping,” where
the admissions committee trims the list of “prospective
admits” before settling on a final class. Id., at 144
(internal quotation marks omitted). At this stage, again, the
committee considers the “characteristics of the admitted
class,” including its “racial composition.”
Ibid. Once more, too, the committee may consider each
applicant’s race in deciding whom to “lop off.”
Ibid.

															All told, the district court made a number of
findings about Harvard’s use of race-based tips. For example:
“[T]he tip[s] given for race impac[t] who among the
highly-qualified students in the applicant pool will be selected
for admission.” Id., at 178. “At least 10% of
Harvard’s admitted class . . . would most likely
not be admitted in the absence of Harvard’s race-conscious
admissions process.” Ibid. Race-based tips are
“determinative” in securing favorable decisions for a
significant percentage of “African American and Hispanic
applicants,” the “primary beneficiaries” of this
system. Ibid. There are clear losers too. “[W]hite and
Asian American applicants are unlikely to receive a meaningful
race-based tip,” id., at 190, n. 56, and
“overall” the school’s race-based practices
“resul[t] in fewer Asian American and white students being
admitted,” id., at 178. For these reasons and others
still, the district court concluded that “Harvard’s
admissions process is not facially neutral” with respect to
race. Id., at 189–190; see also id., at 190,
n. 56 (“The policy cannot . . . be considered
facially neutral from a Title VI perspective.”).

															Things work similarly at UNC. In a typical year,
about 44,000 applicants vie for 4,200 spots. 567 F. Supp. 3d,
at 595. Admissions officers read each application and rate
prospective students along eight dimensions: academic programming,
academic performance, standardized tests, extracurriculars, special
talents, essays, background, and personal. Id., at 600. The
district court found that “UNC’s admissions policies
mandate that race is taken into consideration” in this
process as a “ ‘plus’ facto[r].”
Id., at 594–595. It is a plus that is
“sometimes” awarded to “underrepresented
minority” or “URM” candidates—a group UNC
defines to include “ ‘those students identifying
themselves as African American or [B]lack; American Indian or
Alaska Native; or Hispanic, Latino, or Latina,’ ”
but not Asian or white students. Id., at 591–592,
n. 7, 601.

															At UNC, the admissions officers’ decisions
to admit or deny are “ ‘provisionally
final.’ ” Ante, at 4 (opinion for the
Court). The decisions become truly final only after a committee
approves or rejects them. 567 F. Supp. 3d, at 599. That
committee may consider an applicant’s race too. Id.,
at 607. In the end, the district court found that “race plays
a role”—perhaps even “a determinative
role”—in the decision to admit or deny some “URM
students.” Id., at 634; see also id., at 662
(“race may tip the scale”). Nor is this an accident. As
at Harvard, officials at UNC have made a “deliberate
decision” to employ race-conscious admissions practices.
Id., at 588–589.

															While the district courts’ findings tell
the full story, one can also get a glimpse from aggregate
statistics. Consider the chart in the Court’s opinion
collecting Harvard’s data for the period 2009 to 2018.
Ante, at 31. The racial composition of each incoming class
remained steady over that time—remarkably so. The proportion
of African Americans hovered between 10% and 12%; the proportion of
Hispanics between 8% and 12%; and the proportion of Asian Americans
between 17% and 20%. Ibid. Might this merely reflect the
demographics of the school’s applicant pool? Cf. post,
at 35 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). Perhaps—at least assuming
the applicant pool looks much the same each year and the school
rather mechanically admits applicants based on objective criteria.
But the possibility that it instead betrays the school’s
persistent focus on numbers of this race and numbers of that race
is entirely consistent with the findings recounted above. See,
e.g., 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 146 (“if at some
point in the admissions process it appears that a group is notably
underrepresented or has suffered a dramatic drop off relative to
the prior year, the [committee] may decide to give additional
attention to applications from students within that group”);
cf. ante, at 31–32, n. 7 (opinion for the
Court).

															C

															Throughout this litigation, the parties have
spent less time contesting these facts than debating other
matters.

															For example, the parties debate how much
of a role race plays in admissions at Harvard and UNC. Both schools
insist that they consider race as just one of many factors when
making admissions decisions in their self-described
“holistic” review of each applicant. SFFA responds with
trial evidence showing that, whatever label the universities use to
describe their processes, they intentionally consult race and, by
design, their race-based tips and plusses benefit applicants of
certain groups to the detriment of others. See Brief for Petitioner
20–35, 40–45.

															The parties also debate the reasons both
schools consult race. SFFA observes that, in the 1920s, Harvard
began moving away from “test scores” and toward
“plac[ing] greater emphasis on character, fitness, and other
subjective criteria.” Id., at 12–13 (internal
quotation marks omitted). Harvard made this move, SFFA asserts,
because President A. Lawrence Lowell and other university leaders
had become “alarmed by the growing number of Jewish students
who were testing in,” and they sought some way to cap the
number of Jewish students without “ ‘stat[ing]
frankly’ ” that they were
“ ‘directly excluding all [Jews] beyond a certain
percentage.’ ” Id., at 12; see also 3 App.
in No. 20–1199, pp. 1131–1133. SFFA contends that
Harvard’s current “holistic” approach to
admissions works similarly to disguise the school’s efforts
to assemble classes with a particular racial composition—and,
in particular, to limit the number of Asian Americans it admits.
Brief for Petitioner 12–14, 25–32. For its part,
Harvard expresses regret for its past practices while denying that
they resemble its current ones. Tr. of Oral Arg. in No.
20–1199, at 51. And both schools insist that their
student bodies would lack sufficient diversity without
race-conscious admissions. Brief for Respondent in No.
20–1199, pp. 52–54; Brief for University Respondents in
No. 21–707, pp. 54–59.

															When it comes to defining and measuring
diversity, the parties spar too. SFFA observes that the racial
categories the universities employ in the name of diversity do not
begin to reflect the differences that exist within each group. See
Part I–B–1, supra. Instead, they lump together
white and Asian students from privileged backgrounds with
“Jewish, Irish, Polish, or other ‘white’ ethnic
groups whose ancestors faced discrimination” and
“descendants of those Japanese-American citizens interned
during World War II.” Ante, at 45, n. 10 (Thomas,
J., concurring). Even putting all that aside, SFFA stresses that
neither Harvard nor UNC is willing to quantify how much racial and
ethnic diversity they think sufficient. And, SFFA contends, the
universities may not wish to do so because their stated goal
implies a desire to admit some fixed number (or quota) of students
from each racial group. See Brief for Petitioner 77, 80; Tr. of
Oral Arg. in No. 21–707, p. 180. Besides, SFFA asks, if it is
diversity the schools are after, why do they exhibit so little
interest in other (non-racial) markers of it? See Brief for
Petitioner 78, 83–86. While Harvard professes interest in
socioeconomic diversity, for example, SFFA points to trial
testimony that there are “23 times as many rich kids on
campus as poor kids.” 2 App. in No. 20–1199, p.
756.[3]

															Even beyond all this, the parties debate the
availability of alternatives. SFFA contends that both Harvard and
UNC could obtain significant racial diversity without resorting to
race-based admissions practices. Many other universities across the
country, SFFA points out, have sought to do just that by reducing
legacy preferences, increasing financial aid, and the like. Brief
for Petitioner 85–86; see also Brief for Oklahoma et al. as
Amici Curiae 9–19.[4] As part of its affirmative case, SFFA also submitted
evidence that Harvard could nearly replicate the current racial
composition of its student body without resorting to race-based
practices if it: (1) provided socioeconomically disadvantaged
applicants just half of the tip it gives recruited athletes;
and (2) eliminated tips for the children of donors, alumni, and
faculty. Brief for Petitioner 33–34, 81; see 2 App. in No.
20–1199, at 763–765, 774–775. Doing these two
things would barely affect the academic credentials of each
incoming class. Brief for Petitioner 33–34. And it would not
require Harvard to end tips for recruited athletes, who as a group
are much weaker academically than non-athletes.[5]

															At trial, however, Harvard resisted this
proposal. Its preferences for the children of donors, alumni, and
faculty are no help to applicants who cannot boast of their
parents’ good fortune or trips to the alumni tent all their
lives. While race-neutral on their face, too, these preferences
undoubtedly benefit white and wealthy applicants the most. See 980
F. 3d, at 171. Still, Harvard stands by them. See Brief for
Respondent in No. 20–1199, at 52–54; Tr. of Oral
Arg. in No. 21–1199, at 48–49. As a result,
athletes and the children of donors, alumni, and
faculty—groups that together “make up less than 5% of
applicants to Harvard”—constitute “around 30% of
the applicants admitted each year.” 980 F. 3d, at
171.

															To be sure, the parties’ debates raise
some hard-to-answer questions. Just how many admissions decisions
turn on race? And what really motivates the universities’
race-conscious admissions policies and their refusal to modify
other preferential practices? Fortunately, Title VI does not
require an answer to any of these questions. It does not ask how
much a recipient of federal funds discriminates. It does not
scrutinize a recipient’s reasons or motives for
discriminating. Instead, the law prohibits covered institutions
from intentionally treating any individual worse even in
part because of race. So yes, of course, the universities
consider many non-racial factors in their admissions processes too.
And perhaps they mean well when they favor certain candidates over
others based on the color of their skin. But even if all that is
true, their conduct violates Title VI just the same. See Part
I–A, supra; see also Bostock, 590 U. S.,
at ___, ___–___ (slip op., at 6, 12–15).

															D

															The principal dissent contends that this
understanding of Title VI is contrary to precedent. Post, at
26–27, n. 21 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). But the dissent
does not dispute that everything said here about the meaning of
Title VI tracks this Court’s precedent in Bostock
interpreting materially identical language in Title VII. That
raises two questions: Do the dissenters think Bostock
wrongly decided? Or do they read the same words in neighboring
provisions of the same statute—enacted at the same time by
the same Congress—to mean different things? Apparently, the
federal government takes the latter view. The Solicitor General
insists that there is “ambiguity in the term
‘discrimination’ ” in Title VI but no
ambiguity in the term “discriminate” in Title VII. Tr.
of Oral Arg. in No. 21–707, at 164. Respectfully, I do
not see it. The words of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 are not like
mood rings; they do not change their message from one moment to the
next.

															Rather than engage with the statutory text or
our precedent in Bostock, the principal dissent seeks to sow
confusion about the facts. It insists that all applicants to
Harvard and UNC are “eligible” to receive a race-based
tip. Post, at 32, n. 27 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); cf.
post, at 17 (Jackson, J., dissenting). But the question in
these cases is not who could hypothetically receive a
race-based tip. It is who actually receives one. And on that
score the lower courts left no doubt. The district court in the
Harvard case found that the school’s admissions policy
“cannot . . . be considered facially neutral from a
Title VI perspective given that admissions officers provide
[race-based] tips to African American and Hispanic applicants,
while white and Asian American applicants are unlikely to receive a
meaningful race-based tip.” 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 190,
n. 56; see also id., at 189–190
(“Harvard’s admissions process is not facially
neutral.”). Likewise, the district court in the UNC case
found that admissions officers “sometimes” award
race-based plusses to URM candidates—a category that excludes
Asian American and white students. 567 F. Supp. 3d, at
591–592, n. 7, 601.[6]

															Nor could anyone doubt that these cases are
about intentional discrimination just because Harvard in particular
“ ‘does not explicitly prioritize any
particular racial group over any other.’ ”
Post, at 32, n. 27 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (emphasis
added). Forget for a moment the universities’ concessions
about how they deliberately consult race when deciding whom to
admit. See supra, at 12–13.[7] Look past the lower courts’ findings recounted
above about how the universities intentionally give tips to
students of some races and not others. See supra, at
8–12, 16–17. Put to the side telling evidence that came
out in discovery.[8] Ignore,
too, our many precedents holding that it does not matter how a
defendant “label[s]” its practices, Bostock, 590
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 14); that intentional
discrimination between individuals is unlawful whether
“motivated by a wish to achieve classwide equality” or
any other purpose, id., at ___ (slip op., at 13); and that
“the absence of a malevolent motive does not convert a
facially discriminatory policy into a neutral policy with a
[merely] discriminatory effect,” Johnson Controls, 499
U. S., at 199. Consider just the dissents in these cases. From
start to finish and over the course of nearly 100 pages, they
defend the universities’ purposeful discrimination between
applicants based on race. “[N]eutrality,” they insist,
is not enough. Post, at 12, 68 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.);
cf. post, at 21 (opinion of Jackson, J.). “[T]he use
of race,” they stress, “is critical.”
Post, at 59–60 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); see
id., at 2, 33, 39, 43–45; cf. post, at 2, 26
(opinion of Jackson, J.). Plainly, Harvard and UNC choose to treat
some students worse than others in part because of race. To suggest
otherwise—or to cling to the fact that the schools do not
always say the quiet part aloud—is to deny reality.[9]

															II

															So far, we have seen that Title VI prohibits a
recipient of federal funds from discriminating against individuals
even in part because of race. We have seen, too, that Harvard and
UNC do just what the law forbids. One might wonder, then, why the
parties have devoted years and fortunes litigating other matters,
like how much the universities discriminate and why they do so. The
answer lies in Bakke.

															A

															Bakke concerned admissions to the
medical school at the University of California, Davis. That school
set aside a certain number of spots in each class for minority
applicants. See 438 U. S., at 272–276 (opinion of
Powell, J.). Allan Bakke argued that the school’s policy
violated Title VI and the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Id., at 270. The Court agreed with Mr. Bakke. In
a fractured decision that yielded six opinions, a majority of the
Court held that the school’s set-aside system went too far.
At the same time, however, a different coalition of five Justices
ventured beyond the facts of the case to suggest that, in other
circumstances not at issue, universities may sometimes permissibly
use race in their admissions processes. See ante, at
16–19 (opinion for the Court).

															As important as these conclusions were some of
the interpretive moves made along the way. Justice Powell (writing
only for himself ) and Justice Brennan (writing for himself
and three others) argued that Title VI is coterminous with the
Equal Protection Clause. Put differently, they read Title VI to
prohibit recipients of federal funds from doing whatever the Equal
Protection Clause prohibits States from doing. Justice Powell and
Justice Brennan then proceeded to evaluate racial preferences in
higher education directly under the Equal Protection Clause. From
there, however, their paths diverged. Justice Powell thought some
racial preferences might be permissible but that the admissions
program at issue violated the promise of equal protection. 438
U. S., at 315–320. Justice Brennan would have given a
wider berth to racial preferences and allowed the challenged
program to proceed. Id., at 355–379.

															Justice Stevens (also writing for himself and
three others) took an altogether different approach. He began by
noting the Court’s “settled practice” of
“avoid[ing] the decision of a constitutional issue if a case
can be fairly decided on a statutory ground.” Id., at
411. He then turned to the “broad prohibition” of Title
VI, id., at 413, and summarized his views this way:
“The University . . . excluded Bakke from
participation in its program of medical education because of his
race. The University also acknowledges that it was, and still is,
receiving federal financial assistance. The plain language of the
statute therefore requires” finding a Title VI violation.
Id., at 412 (footnote omitted).

															In the years following Bakke, this Court
hewed to Justice Powell’s and Justice Brennan’s shared
premise that Title VI and the Equal Protection Clause mean the same
thing. See Gratz v. Bollinger, 539 U.S.
244, 276, n. 23 (2003); Grutter v.
Bollinger, 539 U.S.
306, 343 (2003). Justice Stevens’s statute-focused
approach receded from view. As a result, for over four decades,
every case about racial preferences in school admissions under
Title VI has turned into a case about the meaning of the Fourteenth
Amendment.

															And what a confused body of constitutional law
followed. For years, this Court has said that the Equal Protection
Clause requires any consideration of race to satisfy “strict
scrutiny,” meaning it must be “narrowly tailored to
further compelling governmental interests.” Grutter,
539 U. S., at 326 (internal quotation marks omitted). Outside
the context of higher education, “our precedents have
identified only two” interests that meet this demanding
standard: “remediating specific, identified instances of past
discrimination that violated the Constitution or a statute,”
and “avoiding imminent and serious risks to human safety in
prisons.” Ante, at 15 (opinion for the Court).

															Within higher education, however, an entirely
distinct set of rules emerged. Following Bakke, this Court
declared that judges may simply “defer” to a
school’s assertion that “diversity is essential”
to its “educational mission.” Grutter, 539
U. S., at 328. Not all schools, though—elementary and
secondary schools apparently do not qualify for this deference. See
Parents Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School
Dist. No. 1, 551 U.S.
701, 724–725 (2007). Only colleges and universities, the
Court explained, “occupy a special niche in our
constitutional tradition.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at
329. Yet even they (wielding their “special niche”
authority) cannot simply assert an interest in diversity and
discriminate as they please. Fisher, 579 U. S., at 381.
Instead, they may consider race only as a “plus” factor
for the purpose of “attaining a critical mass of
underrepresented minority students” or “a diverse
student body.” Grutter, 539 U. S., at
335–336 (internal quotation marks omitted). At the same time,
the Court cautioned, this practice “must have a logical end
point.” Id., at 342. And in the meantime,
“outright racial balancing” and “quota
system[s]” remain “patently unconstitutional.”
Id., at 330, 334. Nor may a college or university ever
provide “mechanical, predetermined diversity bonuses.”
Id., at 337 (internal quotation marks omitted). Only a
“tip” or “plus” is constitutionally
tolerable, and only for a limited time. Id., at
338–339, 341.

															If you cannot follow all these twists and turns,
you are not alone. See, e.g., Fisher, 579 U. S.,
at 401–437 (Alito, J., dissenting); Grutter, 539
U. S., at 346–349 (Scalia, J., joined by Thomas, J.,
concurring in part and dissenting in part); 1 App. in No.
21–707, pp. 401–402 (testimony from UNC administrator:
“[M]y understanding of the term ‘critical mass’
is that it’s a . . . I’m trying to decide if
it’s an analogy or a metaphor[.] I think it’s an
analogy. . . . I’m not even sure we would know
what it is.”); 3 App. in No. 20–1199, at
1137–1138 (similar testimony from a Harvard administrator).
If the Court’s post-Bakke higher-education precedents
ever made sense, they are by now incoherent.

															Recognizing as much, the Court today cuts
through the kudzu. It ends university exceptionalism and returns
this Court to the traditional rule that the Equal Protection Clause
forbids the use of race in distinguishing between persons unless
strict scrutiny’s demanding standards can be met. In that
way, today’s decision wakes the echoes of Justice John
Marshall Harlan: “The law regards man as man, and takes no
account of his surroundings or of his color when his civil rights
as guaranteed by the supreme law of the land are involved.”
Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U.S.
537, 559 (1896) (dissenting opinion).

															B

															If Bakke led to errors in interpreting
the Equal Protection Clause, its first mistake was to take us
there. These cases arise under Title VI and that statute is
“more than a simple paraphrasing” of the Equal
Protection Clause. 438 U. S., at 416 (opinion of Stevens, J.).
Title VI has “independent force, with language and emphasis
in addition to that found in the Constitution.” Ibid.
That law deserves our respect and its terms provide us with all the
direction we need.

															Put the two provisions side by side. Title VI
says: “No person in the United States shall, on the ground of
race, color, or national origin, be excluded from participation in,
be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under
any program or activity receiving Federal financial
assistance.” §2000d. The Equal Protection Clause reads:
“No State shall . . . deny to any person within its
jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.” Amdt. 14,
§1. That such differently worded provisions should mean the
same thing is implausible on its face.

															Consider just some of the obvious differences.
The Equal Protection Clause operates on States. It does not purport
to regulate the conduct of private parties. By contrast, Title VI
applies to recipients of federal funds—covering not just many
state actors, but many private actors too. In this way, Title VI
reaches entities and organizations that the Equal Protection Clause
does not.

															In other respects, however, the relative scope
of the two provisions is inverted. The Equal Protection Clause
addresses all manner of distinctions between persons and this Court
has held that it implies different degrees of judicial scrutiny for
different kinds of classifications. So, for example, courts apply
strict scrutiny for classifications based on race, color, and
national origin; intermediate scrutiny for classifications based on
sex; and rational-basis review for classifications based on more
prosaic grounds. See, e.g., Fisher, 579 U. S.,
at 376; Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co., 488 U.S.
469, 493–495 (1989) (plurality opinion); United
States v. Virginia, 518 U.S.
515, 555–556 (1996); Board of Trustees of Univ. of
Ala. v. Garrett, 531 U.S.
356, 366–367 (2001). By contrast, Title VI targets only
certain classifications—those based on race, color, or
national origin. And that law does not direct courts to subject
these classifications to one degree of scrutiny or another.
Instead, as we have seen, its rule is as uncomplicated as it is
momentous. Under Title VI, it is always unlawful to
discriminate among persons even in part because of race, color, or
national origin.

															In truth, neither Justice Powell’s nor
Justice Brennan’s opinion in Bakke focused on the text
of Title VI. Instead, both leapt almost immediately to its
“voluminous legislative history,” from which they
proceeded to divine an implicit “congressional intent”
to link the statute with the Equal Protection Clause. 438
U. S., at 284–285 (opinion of Powell, J.); id.,
at 328–336 ( joint opinion of Brennan, White, Marshall,
and Blackmun, JJ.). Along the way, as Justice Stevens documented,
both opinions did more than a little cherry-picking from the
legislative record. See id., at 413–417. Justice
Brennan went so far as to declare that “any claim that the
use of racial criteria is barred by the plain language of the
statute must fail in light of the remedial purpose of Title VI and
its legislative history.” Id., at 340. And once
liberated from the statute’s firm rule against discrimination
based on race, both opinions proceeded to devise their own and very
different arrangements in the name of the Equal Protection
Clause.

															The moves made in Bakke were not
statutory interpretation. They were judicial improvisation. Under
our Constitution, judges have never been entitled to disregard the
plain terms of a valid congressional enactment based on surmise
about unenacted legislative intentions. Instead, it has always been
this Court’s duty “to give effect, if possible, to
every clause and word of a statute,” Montclair v.
Ramsdell, 107 U.S.
147, 152 (1883), and of the Constitution itself, see
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U.S.
41, 87 (1900). In this country, “[o]nly the written word
is the law, and all persons are entitled to its benefit.”
Bostock, 590 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 2). When
judges disregard these principles and enforce rules “inspired
only by extratextual sources and [their] own imaginations,”
they usurp a lawmaking function “reserved for the
people’s representatives.” Id., at ___ (slip
op., at 4).

															Today, the Court corrects course in its reading
of the Equal Protection Clause. With that, courts should now also
correct course in their treatment of Title VI. For years, they have
read a solo opinion in Bakke like a statute while reading
Title VI as a mere suggestion. A proper respect for the law demands
the opposite. Title VI bears independent force beyond the Equal
Protection Clause. Nothing in it grants special deference to
university administrators. Nothing in it endorses racial
discrimination to any degree or for any purpose. Title VI is more
consequential than that.

															*

															In the aftermath of the Civil War, Congress took
vital steps toward realizing the promise of equality under the law.
As important as those initial efforts were, much work remained to
be done—and much remains today. But by any measure, the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 stands as a landmark on this journey and one of
the Nation’s great triumphs. We have no right to make a blank
sheet of any of its provisions. And when we look to the clear and
powerful command Congress set forth in that law, these cases all
but resolve themselves. Under Title VI, it is never permissible
“ ‘to say “yes” to one person
. . . but to say “no” to another
person’ ” even in part “ ‘because
of the color of his skin.’ ” Bakke, 438
U. S., at 418 (opinion of Stevens, J.).

Notes
1
 See also A. Qin, Aiming
for an Ivy and Trying to Seem ‘Less Asian,’ N. Y.
Times, Dec. 3, 2022, p. A18, col. 1 (“[T]he
rumor that students can appear ‘too Asian’ has hardened
into a kind of received wisdom within many Asian American
communities,” and “college admissions consultants
[have] spoke[n] about trying to steer their Asian American clients
away from so-called typically Asian activities such as Chinese
language school, piano and Indian classical
instruments.”).
2
 Though the matter did not
receive much attention in the proceedings below, it appears that
the Common Application has evolved in recent years to allow
applicants to choose among more options to describe their
backgrounds. The decisions below do not disclose how much Harvard
or UNC made use of this further information (or whether they make
use of it now). But neither does it make a difference. Title VI no
more tolerates discrimination based on 60 racial categories than it
does 6.
3
 See also E. Bazelon, Why
Is Affirmative Action in Peril? One Man’s Decision,
N. Y. Times Magazine, Feb. 15, 2023, p. 41 (“In the
Ivy League, children whose parents are in the top 1 percent of the
income distribution are 77 times as likely to attend as those whose
parents are in the bottom 20 percent of the income
bracket.”); ibid. (“[A] common critique
. . . is that schools have made a bargain with economic
elites of all races, with the exception of Asian Americans, who are
underrepresented compared with their level of academic
achievement.”).
4
 The principal dissent
chides me for “reach[ing] beyond the factfinding below”
by acknowledging SFFA’s argument that other universities have
employed various race-neutral tools. Post, at 29–30,
n. 25 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). Contrary to the
dissent’s suggestion, however, I do not purport to find facts
about those practices; all I do here is recount what SFFA has
argued every step of the way. See, e.g., Brief for
Petitioner 55, 66–67; 1 App. in No. 20–1199, pp.
415–416, 440; 2 App. in No. 21–707, pp. 551–552.
Nor, of course, is it somehow remarkable to acknowledge the
parties’ arguments. The principal dissent itself recites
SFFA’s arguments about Harvard’s and other
universities’ practices too. See, e.g., post,
at 30–31, 50 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). In truth, it is the
dissent that reaches beyond the factfinding below when it argues
from studies recited in a dissenting opinion in a different case
decided almost a decade ago. Post, at 29–30,
n. 25 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.); see also post, at
18–21 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (further venturing beyond
the trial records to discuss data about employment, income, wealth,
home ownership, and healthcare).
5
 See Brief for Defense of
Freedom Institute for Policy Studies as Amicus Curiae 11
(recruited athletes make up less than 1% of Harvard’s
applicant pool but represent more than 10% of the admitted class);
P. Arcidiacono, J. Kinsler, & T. Ransom, Legacy and Athlete
Preferences at Harvard, 40 J. Lab. Econ. 133, 141, n. 17
(2021) (recruited athletes were the only applicants admitted with
the lowest possible academic rating and 79% of recruited athletes
with the next lowest rating were admitted compared to 0.02% of
other applicants with the same rating).
6
 The principal dissent
suggests “some Asian American applicants are actually
advantaged by Harvard’s use of race.” Post, at
60 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (internal quotation marks omitted).
What is the dissent’s basis for that claim? The district
court’s finding that “considering applicants’
race may improve the admission chances of some Asian
Americans who connect their racial identities with particularly
compelling narratives.” 397 F. Supp. 3d, at 178 (emphasis
added). The dissent neglects to mention those key qualifications.
Worse, it ignores completely the district court’s further
finding that “overall” Harvard’s
race-conscious admissions policy “results in fewer Asian
American[s] . . . being admitted.” Ibid.
(emphasis added). So much for affording the district court’s
“careful factfinding” the “deference it [is]
owe[d].” Post, at 29–30, n. 25 (opinion of
Sotomayor, J.).
7
 See also, e.g.,
Tr. of Oral Arg. in No. 20–1199, at 67, 84, 91; Tr. of Oral
Arg. in No. 21–707, at 70–71, 81, 84, 91–92,
110.
8
 Messages among UNC
admissions officers included statements such as these:
“[P]erfect 2400 SAT All 5 on AP one B in 11th [grade].”
“Brown?!” “Heck no. Asian.” “Of
course. Still impressive.”; “If it[’]s brown and
above a 1300 [SAT] put them in for [the] merit/Excel
[scholarship].”; “I just opened a brown girl
who’s an 810 [SAT].”; “I’m going through
this trouble because this is a bi-racial (black/white)
male.”; “[S]tellar academics for a Native
Amer[ican]/African Amer[ican] kid.” 3 App. in No.
21–707, pp. 1242–1251.
9
 Left with no reply on the
statute or its application to the facts, the principal dissent
suggests that it violates “principles of party
presentation” and abandons “judicial restraint”
even to look at the text of Title VI. Post, at
26–27, n. 21 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.). It is a
bewildering suggestion. SFFA sued Harvard and UNC under Title VI.
And when a party seeks relief under a statute, our task is to apply
the law’s terms as a reasonable reader would have understood
them when Congress enacted them. Bostock v. Clayton
County, 590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 4). To be
sure, parties are free to frame their arguments. But they are not
free to stipulate to a statute’s meaning and no party may
“waiv[e]” the proper interpretation of the law by
“fail[ing] to invoke it.” EEOC v. FLRA,
476 U.S.
19, 23 (1986) (per curiam) (internal quotation marks
omitted); see also Young v. United States, 315 U.S.
257, 258–259 (1942).


