::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-046
::decision_cite:: 20-1410
::decision_name::  Ruan v. United States
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 20–1410 and 21–5261

															_________________

															XIULU RUAN, PETITIONER

															20–1410v.

															UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															

															SHAKEEL KAHN, PETITIONER

															21–5261v.

															UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the tenth circuit

															[June 27, 2022]

															

															Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.

															A provision of the Controlled Substances Act, codified at

21 U. S. C. §841, makes it a federal crime, “[e]xcept as authorized[,] . . . for any person knowingly or intentionally . . . to manufacture, distribute, or dispense . . . a controlled substance,” such as opioids.

84Stat.
1260,

21 U. S. C. §841(a) (emphasis added).  Registered doctors may prescribe these substances to their patients.  But, as provided by regulation, a prescription is only authorized when a doctor issues it “for a legitimate medical purpose . . . acting in the usual course of his professional practice.”  21 CFR §1306.04(a) (2021).

															In each of these two consolidated cases, a doctor was convicted under §841 for dispensing controlled substances not “as authorized.”  The question before us concerns the state of mind that the Government must prove to convict these doctors of violating the statute.  We hold that the statute’s “knowingly or intentionally” mens rea applies to authorization.  After a defendant produces evidence that he or she was authorized to dispense controlled substances, the Government must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant knew that he or she was acting in an unauthorized manner, or intended to do so.

															I

															The question we face concerns §841’s exception from the general prohibition on dispensing controlled substances contained in the phrase “[e]xcept as authorized.”  In particular, the question concerns the defendant’s state of mind.  To prove that a doctor’s dispensation of drugs via prescription falls within the statute’s prohibition and outside the authorization exception, is it sufficient for the Government to prove that a prescription was in fact not authorized, or must the Government prove that the doctor knew or intended that the prescription was unauthorized?

															Petitioners Xiulu Ruan and Shakeel Kahn are both doctors who actively practiced medicine.  They both possessed licenses permitting them to prescribe controlled substances.  The Government separately charged them with unlawfully dispensing and distributing drugs in violation of §841.  Each proceeded to a jury trial, and each was convicted of the charges.

															At their separate trials, Ruan and Kahn argued that their dispensation of drugs was lawful because the drugs were dispensed pursuant to valid prescriptions.  As noted above, a regulation provides that, “to be effective,” a prescription “must be issued for a legitimate medical purpose by an individual practitioner acting in the usual course of his professional practice.”  21 CFR §1306.04(a).  We assume, as did the courts below and the parties here, that a prescription is “authorized” and therefore lawful if it satisfies this standard.  At Ruan’s and Kahn’s trials, the Government argued that the doctors’ prescriptions failed to comply with this standard.  The doctors argued that their prescriptions did comply, and that, even if not, the doctors did not knowingly deviate or intentionally deviate from the standard.

															Ruan, for example, asked for a jury instruction that would have required the Government to prove that he subjectively knew that his prescriptions fell outside the scope of his prescribing authority.  The District Court, however, rejected this request.  The court instead set forth a more objective standard, instructing the jury that a doctor acts lawfully when he prescribes “in good faith as part of his medical treatment of a patient in accordance with the standard of medical practice generally recognized and accepted in the United States.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 20–410, p. 139a.  The court further instructed the jury that a doctor violates §841 when “the doctor’s actions were either not for a legitimate medical purpose or were outside the usual course of professional medical practice.”  Ibid.  The jury convicted Ruan, and the trial court sentenced him to over 20 years in prison and ordered him to pay millions of dollars in restitution and forfeiture.

															The Eleventh Circuit affirmed Ruan’s convictions.  See 966 F.3d 1101, 1120, 1166–1167 (2020).  The appeals court held that a doctor’s “subjectiv[e] belie[f] that he is meeting a patient’s medical needs by prescribing a controlled substance” is not a “complete defense” to a §841 prosecution.  Id., at 1167.  Rather, the court said, “ ‘[w]hether a defendant acts in the usual course of his professional practice must be evaluated based on an objective standard, not a subjective standard.’ ”  Id., at 1166 (quoting United States v. Joseph, 709 F.3d 1082, 1097 (CA11 2013); emphasis added; alteration in original).

															Kahn’s trial contained similar disagreements over the proper mens rea instructions.  Ultimately, the District Court instructed the jury that it should not convict if it found that Kahn acted in “good faith,” defined as “an attempt to act in accordance with what a reasonable physician should believe to be proper medical practice.”  App. 486.  The court added that to find “good faith,” the jury must conclude that Kahn “acted in an honest effort to prescribe for patients’ medical conditions in accordance with generally recognized and accepted standards of practice.”  Ibid.  The court also told the jury that “good faith” was a “complete defense” because it “would be inconsistent with knowingly and intentionally distributing and/or dispensing controlled substances outside the usual course of professional practice and without a legitimate medical purpose.”  Ibid.  The jury convicted Kahn of the §841 charges, and he was sentenced to 25 years in prison.

															The Tenth Circuit affirmed Kahn’s convictions.  See 989 F.3d 806, 812, 824–826 (2021).  In doing so, the court held that to convict under §841, the Government must prove that a doctor “either: (1) subjectively knew a prescription was issued not for a legitimate medical purpose; or (2) issued a prescription that was objectively not in the usual course of professional practice.”  Id., at 825.

															Both Ruan and Kahn filed petitions for certiorari.  We granted the petitions and consolidated the cases to consider what mens rea applies to §841’s authorization exception. 

															II

															As we have said, §841 makes it unlawful, “[e]xcept as authorized[,] . . . for any person knowingly or intentionally . . . to manufacture, distribute, or dispense . . . a controlled substance.”  We now hold that §841’s “knowingly or intentionally” mens rea applies to the “except as authorized” clause.  This means that once a defendant meets the burden of producing evidence that his or her conduct was “authorized,” the Government must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant knowingly or intentionally acted in an unauthorized manner.  Our conclusion rests upon several considerations.

															A

															First, as a general matter, our criminal law seeks to punish the “ ‘vicious will.’ ”  Morissette v. United States,

342 U.S. 246, 251 (1952); see also id., at 250, n. 4 (quoting F. Sayre, Cases on Criminal Law, p. xxxvi (R. Pound ed. 1927)).  With few exceptions, “ ‘wrongdoing must be conscious to be criminal.’ ”  Elonis v. United States,

575 U.S. 723, 734 (2015) (quoting Morissette, 342 U. S., at 252).  Indeed, we have said that consciousness of wrongdoing is a principle “as universal and persistent in mature systems of [criminal] law as belief in freedom of the human will and a consequent ability and duty of the normal individual to choose between good and evil.”  Id., at 250.

															Consequently, when we interpret criminal statutes, we normally “start from a longstanding presumption, traceable to the common law, that Congress intends to require a defendant to possess a culpable mental state.”  Rehaif v. United States, 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 3).  We have referred to this culpable mental state as “scienter,” which means the degree of knowledge necessary to make a person criminally responsible for his or her acts.  See ibid.; Black’s Law Dictionary 1613 (11th ed. 2019); Morissette, 342 U. S., at 250–252.

															Applying the presumption of scienter, we have read into criminal statutes that are “silent on the required mental state”—meaning statutes that contain no mens rea provision whatsoever—“ ‘that mens rea which is necessary to separate wrongful conduct from “otherwise innocent conduct.” ’ ”  Elonis, 575 U. S., at 736 (quoting Carter v. United States,

530 U.S. 255, 269 (2000); emphasis added).  Unsurprisingly, given the meaning of scienter, the mens rea we have read into such statutes is often that of knowledge or intent.  See, e.g., Staples v. United States,

511 U.S. 600, 619 (1994); United States v. United States Gypsum Co.,

438 U.S. 422, 444–446 (1978).

															And when a statute is not silent as to mens rea but instead “includes a general scienter provision,” “the presumption applies with equal or greater force” to the scope of that provision.  Rehaif, 588 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 3) (emphasis added).  We have accordingly held that a word such as “knowingly” modifies not only the words directly following it, but also those other statutory terms that “separate wrongful from innocent acts.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6); see, e.g., ibid.; United States v. X-Citement Video, Inc.,

513 U.S. 64, 72 (1994); Liparota v. United States,

471 U.S. 419, 426 (1985).

															Section 841 contains a general scienter provision—“knowingly or intentionally.”  And in §841 prosecutions, a lack of authorization is often what separates wrongfulness from innocence.  Defendants who produce evidence that they are “authorized” to dispense controlled substances are often doctors dispensing drugs via prescription.  We normally would not view such dispensations as inherently illegitimate; we expect, and indeed usually want, doctors to prescribe the medications that their patients need.  In §841 prosecutions, then, it is the fact that the doctor issued an unauthorized prescription that renders his or her conduct wrongful, not the fact of the dispensation itself.  In other words, authorization plays a “crucial” role in separating innocent conduct—and, in the case of doctors, socially beneficial conduct—from wrongful conduct.  X-Citement Video, 513 U. S., at 73.  Applying §841’s “knowingly or intentionally” mens rea to the authorization clause thus “helps advance the purpose of scienter, for it helps to separate wrongful from innocent acts.”  Rehaif, 588 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6); see also X-Citement Video, 513 U. S., at 72–73.

															In addition, the regulatory language defining an authorized prescription is, we have said, “ambiguous,” written in “generalit[ies], susceptible to more precise definition and open to varying constructions.”  Gonzales v. Oregon,

546 U.S. 243, 258 (2006); see id., at 257 (regulation “gives little or no instruction on” major questions); see also 21 CFR §1306.04(a) (regulation defining “effective” prescription as one “issued for a legitimate medical purpose by an individual practitioner acting in the usual course of his professional practice”).  The conduct prohibited by such language (issuing invalid prescriptions) is thus “often difficult to distinguish from the gray zone of socially acceptable . . . conduct” (issuing valid prescriptions).  United States Gypsum, 438 U. S., at 441.  A strong scienter requirement helps to diminish the risk of “overdeterrence,” i.e., punishing acceptable and beneficial conduct that lies close to, but on the permissible side of, the criminal line.  Ibid.

															The statutory provisions at issue here are also not the kind that we have held fall outside the scope of ordinary scienter requirements.  Section 841 does not define a regulatory or public welfare offense that carries only minor penalties.  Cf. Rehaif, 588 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6); Staples, 511 U. S., at 606.  Rather, §841 imposes severe penalties upon those who violate it, including life imprisonment and fines up to $1 million.  See §841(b)(1)(C); see generally §841(b).  Such severe penalties counsel in favor of a strong scienter requirement.  See Staples, 511 U. S., at 618–619 (noting that “a severe penalty is a further factor tending to suggest that . . . the usual presumption that a defendant must know the facts that make his conduct illegal should apply”); United States Gypsum, 438 U. S., at 442, n. 18.

															Nor is the “except as authorized” clause a jurisdictional provision, to which the presumption of scienter would not apply.  Cf. Rehaif, 588 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 4); United States v. Yermian,

468 U.S. 63, 68–69 (1984).  To the contrary, and as we have explained, a lack of authorization is often the critical thing distinguishing wrongful from proper conduct.

															B

															Analogous precedent reinforces our conclusion.  In Liparota, we interpreted a statute penalizing anyone who “ ‘knowingly uses [food stamps] in any manner not authorized by’ ” statute.  471 U. S., at 420.  We held that “knowingly” modified both the “use” of food stamps element and the element that the use be “not authorized.”  Id., at 423, 433.  We applied “knowingly” to the authorization language even though Congress had not “explicitly and unambiguously” indicated that it should so apply.  Id., at 426.  But if knowingly did not modify the fact of nonauthorization, we explained, the statute “would . . . criminalize a broad range of apparently innocent conduct.”  Ibid.

															Similarly, in X-Citement Video, we interpreted a statute penalizing anyone who “ ‘knowingly transports’ ” or “ ‘knowingly receives’ ” videos “ ‘involv[ing] the use of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct.’ ”  513 U. S., at 68.  We held that “knowingly” applied not only to the element of transporting or receiving videos but also to the elemental fact that the videos involve “the use of a minor.”  Id., at 66.  We recognized that this was not “the most grammatical reading of the statute.”  Id., at 70.  But, we explained, “the age of the performers is the crucial element separating legal innocence from wrongful conduct,” for possessing sexually explicit videos involving nonminors is protected
 
First Amendment activity.  Id., at 72–73.

															Finally, in Rehaif, we interpreted a statutory scheme in which one statutory subsection provided penalties for anyone who “knowingly violates” a separate subsection.  588 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 3–4).  This latter subsection made it “unlawful” for people with certain statuses (i.e., being a felon or being in the country unlawfully) to possess a gun.  Ibid.  We held that the first subsection’s “knowingly” language applied to the status element in the second subsection.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  To convict under the statute, then, the Government had to prove that a defendant knew he had one of the listed statuses.  Ibid.  “Without knowledge of that status,” we reasoned, “the defendant may well lack the intent needed to make his behavior wrongful,” because “[a]ssuming compliance with ordinary licensing requirements, the possession of a gun can be entirely innocent.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6).

															Like the statutes at issue in these cases, the statute here contains a scienter provision.  Section 841 states: “Except as authorized by this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally . . . to manufacture, distribute, or dispense . . . a controlled substance.”  (Emphasis added.)  Like those three cases, the question here concerns the mental state that applies to a statutory clause (“[e]xcept as authorized”) that does not immediately follow the scienter provision.  Like the three cases, the statutory clause in question plays a critical role in separating a defendant’s wrongful from innocent conduct.  And, like the Court in those cases, we conclude that the statute’s mens rea applies to that critical clause.

															III

															We are not convinced by the Government’s arguments to the contrary.  First, the Government correctly points out, and the concurrence emphasizes, that the statutory language at issue in the cases we have just described set forth elements of the offense.  Here, the Government and the concurrence say, the “except as authorized” clause does not set forth an element.  See, e.g., post, at 4–7 (Alito, J., concurring in judgment).

															The Government and the concurrence point to two ways in which the “except as authorized” clause is unlike an element, both of which rely on a different provision of the Controlled Substances Act—§885.  Section 885 says that the Government need not “negative”—i.e., refute—“any exemption or exception . . . in any complaint, information, indictment, or other pleading.”  This means that, in a prosecution under the Controlled Substances Act, the Government need not refer to a lack of authorization (or any other exemption or exception) in the criminal indictment.  Cf. United States v. Resendiz-Ponce,

549 U.S. 102, 108 (2007) (criminal indictment must set forth all elements of the charged crime).  Section 885 also says that the Government need not “negative any exemption or exception . . . in any trial,” and that “the burden of going forward with the evidence with respect to any such exemption or exception shall be upon the person claiming its benefit,” not upon the prosecution.  Cf. Patterson v. New York,

432 U.S. 197, 210 (1977) (Government bears burden of proving all elements of charged offense).

															But even assuming that lack of authorization is unlike an element for the two purposes that §885 sets forth, those two purposes have little or nothing to do with scienter requirements.  The first has to do with the indictment.  It simply says that the Government need not set forth in an indictment a lack of authorization, or otherwise allege that a defendant does not fall within the many exceptions and exemptions that the Controlled Substances Act contains.  The Act excepts, for example, licensed professionals such as dentists, veterinarians, scientific investigators, and pharmacists from the prohibition on dispensing controlled substances.  See

21 U. S. C. §802(21).  The Act also excepts employees of drug manufacturers, common carriers, and people with sick family members or pets from the prohibition on possessing controlled substances.  See §§802(27), 822(c).  Section 885 merely absolves the Government of having to allege, in an indictment, the inapplicability of every statutory exception in each Controlled Substances Act prosecution.

															Section 885’s second purpose refers only to “the burden of going forward with the evidence,” i.e., the burden of production.  See Black’s Law Dictionary, at 244.  It says nothing regarding the distinct issue of the burden of persuasion—i.e., the burden of proving a lack of authorization.  Cf. Director, Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs v. Greenwich Collieries,

512 U.S. 267, 274 (1994) (“our opinions consistently distinguis[h] between burden of proof, which we defined as burden of persuasion, and . . . the burden of production or the burden of going forward with the evidence”); see also Schaffer v. Weast,

546 U.S. 49, 56 (2005).  Section 885 can thus be understood as providing a presumptive device, akin to others we have recognized in the criminal context, which “merely shift[s] the burden of production to the defendant, following the satisfaction of which the ultimate burden of persuasion returns to the prosecution.”  County Court of Ulster Cty. v. Allen,

442 U.S. 140, 157–158, n. 16 (1979); see Parker v. Matthews,

567 U.S. 37, 42, n. 1 (2012) (per curiam).  Contrary to the concurrence’s assertion, see post, at 9–11, the differences between these two burdens and the use of procedural mechanisms to shift one burden but not the other are well established.  See, e.g., 29 Am. Jur. 2d Evidence §207, p. 246 (2019) (“due process does not prohibit the use of a . . . procedural device that shifts to a defendant the burden of producing some evidence contesting a fact that may otherwise be inferred, provided the prosecution retains the ultimate burden of proof ”); 1 W. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law §1.8(a), p. 102 (3d ed. 2018) (similar).  In a §841 prosecution, then, once the defendant satisfies the initial burden of production by producing evidence of authorization, the burden of proving a lack of authorization shifts back to the Government.  And, as with §885’s indictment-related purpose, §885’s burden-related purpose simply relieves the Government from having to disprove, at the outset of every Controlled Substances Act prosecution, every exception in the statutory scheme.

															Section 885 thus does not provide a basis for inferring that Congress intended to do away with, or weaken, ordinary and longstanding scienter requirements.  At the same time, the language of §841 (which explicitly includes a “knowingly or intentionally” provision); the crucial role authorization (or lack thereof ) plays in distinguishing morally blameworthy conduct from socially necessary conduct; the serious nature of the crime and its penalties; and the vague, highly general language of the regulation defining the bounds of prescribing authority all support applying normal scienter principles to the “except as authorized” clause.  That statutory requirement, while differing from an element in some respects, is sufficiently like an element in respect to the matter at issue here as to warrant similar legal treatment.

															And the Government does not deny that, once a defendant claims that he or she falls within the authorization exception and the burden shifts back to the Government, the Government must prove a lack of authorization by satisfying the ordinary criminal law burden of proof—beyond a reasonable doubt.  See Brief for United States 26; Tr. of Oral Arg. 50–51; see also id., at 62–65.  But see post, at 10–11 (concurrence suggesting, contrary to the position advanced by all parties to these cases, that the Government need only prove lack of authorization by a preponderance of the evidence).  Once the defendant meets his or her burden of production, then, the Government must prove lack of authorization beyond a reasonable doubt.

															Resisting the “knowingly or intentionally” standard, the Government instead offers a substitute mens rea standard.  The Government says that rather than simply apply the statute’s “knowingly or intentionally” language to the authorization clause, we should read the statute as implicitly containing an “objectively reasonable good-faith effort” or “objective honest-effort standard.”  Brief for United States 16–17; cf. post, at 13 (concurrence arguing that doctors can defend against a §841 prosecution by proving that they have “act[ed] in subjective good faith in prescribing drugs”).  That is to say, once a defendant meets his or her burden of production, the Government can convict “by proving beyond a reasonable doubt that [the defendant] did not even make an objectively reasonable attempt to ascertain and act within the bounds of professional medicine.”  Brief for United States 16.

															We are not convinced.  For one thing, §841, like many criminal statutes, uses the familiar mens rea words “knowingly or intentionally.”  It nowhere uses words such as “good faith,” “objectively,” “reasonable,” or “honest effort.”

															For another, the Government’s standard would turn a defendant’s criminal liability on the mental state of a hypothetical “reasonable” doctor, not on the mental state of the defendant himself or herself.  Cf. id., at 24 (Government arguing that “a physician can violate Section 841(a) when he makes no objectively reasonable attempt to conform his conduct to something that his fellow doctors would view as medical care” (emphasis added)).

															We have rejected analogous suggestions in other criminal contexts.  In Elonis, for example, we considered the mental state applicable to a statute that criminalized threatening communications but contained no explicit mens rea requirement.  575 U. S., at 732.  The Government argued that the statute required proof that a reasonable person would find the communications threatening.  Id., at 738–739.  But, we said, “[h]aving liability turn on whether a ‘reasonable person’ regards the communication as a threat—regardless of what the defendant thinks—reduces culpability on the all-important element of the crime to negligence.”  Id., at 738 (some internal quotation marks omitted).  “[A]nd,” we emphasized, “we ‘have long been reluctant to infer that a negligence standard was intended in criminal statutes.’ ”  Ibid. (quoting Rogers v. United States,

422 U.S. 35, 47 (1975) (Marshall, J., concurring)).  We believe the same of the Government’s proposed standard here.

															The Government asserts that we held to the contrary, and “effectively endorsed” its honest-effort standard, in United States v. Moore,

423 U.S. 122 (1975).  Brief for United States 26.  But the question in Moore was whether doctors could ever be held criminally liable under §841.  423 U. S., at 124.  Moore did not directly address the issue before us here regarding the mens rea required to convict under the statute.

															Further, the Government, citing Yermian, notes that the authorization clause precedes the words “knowingly or intentionally.”  And, the Government argues, grammatically speaking, that fact prevents the latter mens rea provision from modifying the former clause.  See Brief for United States 24–25.  But Yermian based its holding on the fact that the clause preceding the mens rea provision set forth a jurisdictional criteria, which is typically not subject to a scienter requirement.  468 U. S., at 68–69; see also Rehaif, 588 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 4). Yermian did not base its holding on the grammatical positioning of the statutory language.

															Finally, the Government argues that requiring it to prove that a doctor knowingly or intentionally acted not as authorized will allow bad-apple doctors to escape liability by claiming idiosyncratic views about their prescribing authority.  See, e.g., Brief for United States 33.  This kind of argument, however, can be made in many cases imposing scienter requirements, and we have often rejected it on bases similar to those we have set forth in Part II of this opinion.  See, e.g., Rehaif, 588 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8); Liparota, 471 U. S., at 433–434.

															We do the same here.  The Government, of course, can prove knowledge of a lack of authorization through circumstantial evidence.  See ibid.  And the regulation defining the scope of a doctor’s prescribing authority does so by reference to objective criteria such as “legitimate medical purpose” and “usual course” of “professional practice.”  21 CFR §1306.04(a); see Gonzales, 546 U. S., at 285 (Scalia, J., dissenting) (“The use of the word ‘legitimate’ connotes an objective standard of ‘medicine’ ”); Moore, 423 U. S., at 141–142 (describing Congress’ intent “to confine authorized medical practice within accepted limits” (emphasis added)).  As we have said before, “the more unreasonable” a defendant’s “asserted beliefs or misunderstandings are,” especially as measured against objective criteria, “the more likely the jury . . . will find that the Government has carried its burden of proving knowledge.”  Cheek v. United States,

498 U.S. 192, 203–204 (1991).  But the Government must still carry this burden.  And for purposes of a criminal conviction under §841, this requires proving that a defendant knew or intended that his or her conduct was unauthorized.

															IV

															The Government argues that we should affirm Ruan’s and Kahn’s convictions because the jury instructions at their trials conveyed the requisite mens rea.  Alternatively, the Government argues that any instructional error was harmless.  But the Court of Appeals in both cases evaluated the jury instructions under an incorrect understanding of §841’s scienter requirements.  We decline to decide in the first instance whether the instructions complied with the standard we have set forth today.  Cf. Rehaif, 588 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11).  We leave that and any harmlessness questions for the courts to address on remand.

															*  *  *

															We conclude that §841’s “knowingly or intentionally” mens rea applies to the “except as authorized” clause.  This means that in a §841 prosecution in which a defendant meets his burden of production under §885, the Government must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant knowingly or intentionally acted in an unauthorized manner.  We vacate the judgments of the Courts of Appeals below and remand the cases for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

															It is so ordered.
													
