::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-053
::decision_cite:: 20-222
::decision_name::  Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. v. Arkansas Teacher Retirement System
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–222

															_________________

															GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC., et al., PETITIONERS v. ARKANSAS TEACHER RETIREMENT SYSTEM, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 21, 2021]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, concurring in part and dissenting in part.

															I agree with the Court’s answers to the questions presented, and I accordingly join Parts I, II–A–1, and II–B of the Court’s opinion.  Under Basic Inc. v. Levinson,

485 U.S. 224 (1988), securities plaintiffs may demonstrate reliance by invoking the rebuttable presumption that investors rely on any misrepresentations reflected in a security’s market price.  Id., at 241–247.  The Basic presumption is particularly useful to class-action plaintiffs who, without the presumption, ordinarily could not demonstrate that questions common to the class predominate over individual ones.  Ante, at 3–4.  Defendants, for their part, may rebut the Basic presumption by demonstrating that the alleged misrepresentations did not in fact affect the security’s price.  Ante, at 3.  So-called “price impact” may be disproved with a variety of evidence, alone or in combination.  As the Court holds today, one potentially relevant piece of evidence may be the “generic nature” of the misrepresentation.  Ante, at 6–8.

															I do not, however, join the Court’s judgment to vacate and remand because I believe the Second Circuit “properly considered the generic nature of Goldman’s alleged misrepre- sentations.”  Ante, at 8.  On appeal, Goldman did not contend that the District Court improperly refused to consider the generic nature of the alleged misstatements as evidence of price impact (or lack thereof ).  Instead, Goldman argued that “general statements, like those challenged here, are incapable of impacting a company’s stock price as a matter of law” because they are “ ‘too general to cause a reasonable investor to rely upon them.’ ”  Brief for Appellants in  No. 18–3667 (CA2), pp. 43, 46.  Goldman reasoned that “the challenged statements are incapable of maintaining inflation in a stock price for the same reasons that those statements are immaterial as a matter of law (as well as fact).”  Id., at 48.

															The Second Circuit properly rejected Goldman’s argument.  The court explained that although “Goldman is not formally asking for a materiality test,” its proposed rule would “essentially requir[e] courts to ask” at the class- certification stage “whether the alleged misstatements are, in Goldman’s words, ‘immaterial as a matter of law.’ ”  955 F.3d 254, 267 (2020).  But “materiality is irrelevant at the Rule 23 stage.”  Id., at 268 (citing Amgen Inc. v. Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust Funds,

568 U.S. 455, 468 (2013)).  “If general statements cannot maintain price inflation because no reasonable investor would have relied on them, then the question of inactionable generality is common to the class.”  955 F. 3d, at 268.

															In declining to adopt Goldman’s proposed rule that generic misstatements cannot have a price impact (as a matter of law), the Second Circuit nowhere held that the generic nature of an alleged misstatement could not serve as evidence of price impact (as a matter of fact).  Nor did the Second Circuit refuse to consider such evidence in affirming the District Court’s finding that Goldman failed to rebut the Basic presumption.  The Court nevertheless reads a handful of sentences in the Second Circuit’s opinion to create “doubt” over whether the Court of Appeals refused to consider “all record evidence relevant to price impact.”  Ante, at 9; see also ante, at 9, n. 3.  But such statements must be viewed in the context of Goldman’s now-abandoned argument that generic misrepresentations have no price impact as a matter of law.  Take, for example, the Second Circuit’s statement that “[w]hether alleged misstatements are too general to demonstrate price impact has nothing to do with the issue of whether common questions predominate over individual ones.”  955 F. 3d, at 268.  Fairly read in light of Goldman’s appellate briefing, that sentence addresses only Goldman’s argument that general statements are always per se irrelevant.  That is why the Second Circuit observed several sentences later that “Goldman’s test is materiality by another name.”  Ibid.  At the same time, the court was careful to emphasize that defendants “may attempt to disprove [price impact] at class certification” even though the inquiry “resembles materiality.”[1]*  Id., at 267.

															In short, the Second Circuit did not address whether the generic nature of a misstatement may be used as evidence to disprove price impact for a simple reason: Goldman identified no error in the District Court’s treatment of such evidence.  Goldman did not press the argument in the Second Circuit that it now urges here, and the Second Circuit did not reject the proposition that this Court now adopts.  Thus, the argument Goldman seeks to press on remand is unpre- served, and nothing in the Second Circuit’s opinion misstates the law.  Because affirmance is appropriate under these circumstances, I respectfully dissent from Part II–A–2 of the Court’s opinion and from the judgment of the Court.
Notes
1
*Indeed, in a prior appeal in this case, an earlier Second Circuit panel vacated an order of the District Court in part because it had refused to consider price-impact evidence that overlapped with materiality.  See 879 F.3d 474, 486 (2018) (holding that “[a]lthough price impact touches on materiality, which is not an appropriate consideration at the class certification stage,” courts nonetheless must consider evidence regarding “[w]hether a misrepresentation was reflected in the market price at the time of the transaction”).  It is hard to imagine that the Second Circuit here was unaware of (or intended to depart from) the prior panel’s holding. 


