::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-057
::decision_cite:: 20-255
::decision_name::  Mahanoy Area School District v. B. L.
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–255

															_________________

															MAHANOY AREA SCHOOL DISTRICT, PETITIONER v. B. L., a minor, by and through her father, LAWRENCE LEVY and her mother, BETTY LOU LEVY

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit

															[June 23, 2021]

															

															Justice Thomas, dissenting.

															B. L., a high school student, sent a profanity-laced message to hundreds of people, including classmates and teammates.  The message included a picture of B. L. raising her middle finger and captioned “F*** school” and “f*** cheer.”  This message was juxtaposed with another, which explained that B. L. was frustrated that she failed to make the varsity cheerleading squad.  The cheerleading coach responded by disciplining B. L.

															The Court overrides that decision—without even mentioning the 150 years of history supporting the coach.  Using broad brushstrokes, the majority outlines the scope of school authority.  When students are on campus, the majority says, schools have authority in loco parentis—that is, as substitutes of parents—to discipline speech and conduct.  Off campus, the authority of schools is somewhat less.  At that level of generality, I agree.  But the majority omits important detail.  What authority does a school have when it operates in loco parentis?  How much less authority do schools have over off-campus speech and conduct?  And how does a court decide if speech is on or off campus?

															Disregarding these important issues, the majority simply posits three vague considerations and reaches an outcome.  A more searching review reveals that schools historically could discipline students in circumstances like those presented here.  Because the majority does not attempt to explain why we should not apply this historical rule and does not attempt to tether its approach to anything stable, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															A

															While the majority entirely ignores the relevant history, I would begin the assessment of the scope of free-speech rights incorporated against the States by looking to “what ‘ordinary citizens’ at the time of [the
 
Fourteenth Amendment’s] ratification would have understood” the right to encompass.  McDonald v. Chicago,

561 U.S. 742, 813 (2010) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).  Cases and treatises from that era reveal that public schools retained substantial authority to discipline students.  As I have previously explained, that authority was near plenary while students were at school.  See Morse v. Frederick,

551 U.S. 393, 419 (2007) (concurring opinion).  Authority also extended to when students were traveling to or from school.  See, e.g., Lander v. Seaver, 32 Vt. 114, 120 (1859).  And, although schools had less authority after a student returned home, it was well settled that they still could discipline students for off-campus speech or conduct that had a proximate tendency to harm the school environment.

															Perhaps the most familiar example applying this rule is a case where a student, after returning home from school, used “disrespectful language” against a teacher—he called the teacher “old”—“in presence of the [teacher] and of some of his fellow pupils.”  Id., at 115 (emphasis deleted).  The Vermont Supreme Court held that the teacher could discipline a student for this speech because the speech had “a direct and immediate tendency to injure the school, to subvert the master’s authority, and to beget disorder and insubordination.”  Id., at 120; see also ibid. (“direct and immediate tendency to . . . bring the master’s authority into contempt”).  The court distinguished the speech at issue from speech “in no ways connected with or affecting the school” and speech that has “merely a remote and indirect tendency to injure.”  Id., at 120–121.  In requiring a “direct and immediate tendency” to harm, id., at 120, the court used the language of proximate causation, see Black’s Law Dictionary 274 (11th ed. 2019) (defining “proximate cause” as a “cause that directly produces an event”); id., at 1481 (defining “proximate” as “[i]mmediately before or after”); see also Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. v. Calhoun,

213 U.S. 1, 7 (1909) (using “proximate” cause and “immediate” cause interchangeably).

															This rule was widespread.  It was consistent with “the universal custom” in New England.  Lander, 32 Vt., at 121.  Various cases, treatises, and school manuals endorsed it.[1]*  And a justice of the Rhode Island Supreme Court, presiding over a trial, declared the rule “well settled.”  T. Stockwell, The School Manual, Containing the School Laws of Rhode Island 236–238 (1882) (Stockwell).

															So widespread was this rule that it served not only as the basis for schools to discipline disrespectful speech but also to regulate truancy.  Although modern doctrine draws a clear line between speech and conduct, cases in the 19th century did not.  E.g., Lander, 32 Vt., at 120 (describing speech as “acts of misbehavior”); Stockwell 236–238 (applying the Lander rule to “[t]he conduct of pupils”); Morse, 551 U. S., at 419 (Thomas, J., concurring) (“speech rules and other school rules were treated identically”).  Citing Lander, schools justified regulating truancy because of its proximate tendency to harm schools.  As the Missouri Supreme Court put it, although “[t]ruancy is an act committed out of the school,” schools could regulate it because of its “subversive” effects on the “good order and discipline of the school.”  Deskins v. Gose, 85 Mo. 485, 488–489 (1885); see also Burdick v. Babcock, 31 Iowa 562, 565, 567 (1871) (“If the effects of acts done out of school-hours reach within the schoolroom during school hours and are detrimental to good order and the best interest of the pupils, it is evident that such acts may be forbidden”).

															Some courts made statements that, if read in isolation, could suggest that schools had no authority at all to regulate off-campus speech.  E.g., Dritt v. Snodgrass, 66 Mo. 286, 297 (1877) (Norton, J., joined by a majority of the court, concurring) (“neither the teacher nor directors have the authority to follow [a student home], and govern his conduct while under the parental eye” because that would “supersede entirely parental authority”).  But, these courts made it clear that the rule against regulating off-campus speech applied only when that speech was “nowise connected with the management or successful operation of the school.”  King v. Jefferson City School Bd., 71 Mo. 628, 630 (1880) (distinguishing Dritt); accord, Lander, 32 Vt., at 120–121 (similar).  In other words, they followed Lander: A school can regulate speech when it occurs off campus, so long as it has a proximate tendency to harm the school, its faculty or students, or its programs.

															B

															If there is a good constitutional reason to depart from this historical rule, the majority and the parties fail to identify it.  I would thus apply the rule.  Assuming that B. L.’s speech occurred off campus, the purpose and effect of B. L.’s speech was “to degrade the [program and cheerleading staff]” in front of “other pupils,” thus having “a direct and immediate tendency to . . . subvert the [cheerleading coach’s] authority.”  Id., at 115, 120.  As a result, the coach had authority to discipline B. L.

															Our modern doctrine is not to the contrary.  “[T]he penalties imposed in this case were unrelated to any political viewpoint” or religious viewpoint.  Bethel School Dist. No. 403 v. Fraser,

478 U.S. 675, 685 (1986).  And although the majority sugar coats this speech as “criticism,” ante, at 8, it is well settled that schools can punish “vulgar” speech—at least when it occurs on campus, e.g., Fraser, 478 U. S., at 683–684; ante, at 5.

															The discipline here—a 1-year suspension from the team—may strike some as disproportionate.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 31, 57.  But that does not matter for our purposes.  State courts have policed school disciplinary decisions for “reasonable[ness].”  E.g., Burdick, 31 Iowa, at 565.  And disproportionate discipline “can be challenged by parents in the political process.”  Morse, 551 U. S., at 420 (Thomas, J., concurring).  But the majority and the parties provide no textual or historical evidence to suggest that federal courts generally can police the proportionality of school disciplinary decisions in the name of the
 
First Amendment.

															II

															The majority declines to consider any of this history, instead favoring a few pragmatic guideposts.  This is not the first time the Court has chosen intuition over history when it comes to student speech.  The larger problem facing us today is that our student-speech cases are untethered from any textual or historical foundation.  That failure leads the majority to miss much of the analysis relevant to these kinds of cases.

															A

															Consider the Court’s longtime failure to grapple with the historical doctrine of in loco parentis.  As I have previously explained, the
 
Fourteenth Amendment was ratified against the background legal principle that publicly funded schools operated not as ordinary state actors, but as delegated substitutes of parents.  Id., at 411–413.  This principle freed schools from the constraints the
 
Fourteenth Amendment placed on other government actors.  “[N]o one doubted the government’s ability to educate and discipline children as private schools did,” including “through strict discipline . . . for behavior the school considered disrespectful or wrong.”  Id., at 411–412.  “The doctrine of in loco parentis limited the ability of schools to set rules and control their classrooms in almost no way.”  Id., at 416.

															Plausible arguments can be raised in favor of departing from that historical doctrine.  When the
 
Fourteenth Amendment was ratified, just three jurisdictions had compulsory-education laws.  M. Katz, A History of Compulsory Education Laws 17 (1976).  One might argue that the delegation logic of in loco parentis applies only when delegation is voluntary.  But cf. id., at 11–13 (identifying analogs to compulsory-education laws as early as the 1640s); Pierce v. Society of Sisters,

268 U.S. 510 (1925) (requiring States to permit parents to send their children to nonpublic schools).  The Court, however, did not make that (or any other) argument against this historical doctrine.

															Instead, the Court simply abandoned the foundational rule without mentioning it.  See Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School Dist.,

393 U.S. 503 (1969).  Rather than wrestle with this history, the Court declared that it “ha[d] been the unmistakable holding of this Court for almost 50 years” that students have free-speech rights inside schools.  Id., at 506.  “But the cases the Court cited in favor of that bold proposition do not support it.”  Morse, 551 U. S., at 420, n. 8 (Thomas, J., concurring).  The cases on which Tinker chiefly relied concerned the rights of parents and private schools, not students.  551 U. S., at 420, n. 8. Of the 11 cases the Court cited, only one—West Virginia Bd. of Ed. v. Barnette,

319 U.S. 624 (1943)—was on point.  But, like Tinker, Barnette failed to mention the historical doctrine undergirding school authority.  Not until decades later did the Court even hint at this doctrine, and, then, only as an aside.  See Fraser, 478 U. S., at 684.

															The majority does no better today. At least it acknowledges that schools act in loco parentis when students speak on campus.  See, e.g., ante, at 5.  But the majority fails to address the historical contours of that doctrine, whether the doctrine applies to off-campus speech, or why the Court has abandoned it.

															B

															The Court’s failure to explain itself in Tinker needlessly makes this case more difficult.  Unlike Tinker, which involved a school’s authority under a straightforward fact pattern, this case involves speech made in one location but capable of being received in countless others—an issue that has been aggravated exponentially by recent technological advances.  The Court’s decision not to create a solid foundation in Tinker, and now here not to consult the relevant history, predictably causes the majority to ignore relevant analysis.

															First, the majority gives little apparent significance to B. L.’s decision to participate in an extracurricular activity.  But the historical test suggests that authority of schools over off-campus speech may be greater when students participate in extracurricular programs.  The Lander test focuses on the effect of speech, not its location.  So students like B. L. who are active in extracurricular programs have a greater potential, by virtue of their participation, to harm those programs.  For example, a profanity-laced screed delivered on social media or at the mall has a much different effect on a football program when done by a regular student than when done by the captain of the football team.  So, too, here.

															Second, the majority fails to consider whether schools often will have more authority, not less, to discipline students who transmit speech through social media.  Because off-campus speech made through social media can be received on campus (and can spread rapidly to countless people), it often will have a greater proximate tendency to harm the school environment than will an off-campus in-person conversation.

															Third, and relatedly, the majority uncritically adopts the assumption that B. L.’s speech, in fact, was off campus.  But, the location of her speech is a much trickier question than the majority acknowledges.  Because speech travels, schools sometimes may be able to treat speech as on campus even though it originates off campus.  Nobody doubts, for example, that a school has in loco parentis authority over a student (and can discipline him) when he passes out vulgar flyers on campus—even if he creates those flyers off campus.  The same may be true in many contexts when social media speech is generated off campus but received on campus.  To be sure, this logic might not apply where the on-campus presence of speech is not proximately connected to its off-campus origin—as when a student “wholly accidental[ly]” brings a sibling’s sketch to school years after it is created.  Porter v. Ascension Parish School Bd., 393 F.3d 608, 615, 617–618 (CA5 2004).  This break in proximate causation might occur more often when a school prohibits the use of personal devices or social media on campus.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 68–69.  But where it is foreseeable and likely that speech will travel onto campus, a school has a stronger claim to treating the speech as on-campus speech.

															Here, it makes sense to treat B. L.’s speech as off-campus speech.  There is little evidence that B. L.’s speech was received on campus.  The cheerleading coach, in fact, did not view B. L.’s speech.  She viewed a copy of that speech (a screenshot) created by another student.  Ante, at 2.  But, the majority mentions none of this.  It simply, and uncritically, assumes that B. L.’s speech was off campus.  Because it creates a test untethered from history, it bypasses this relevant inquiry.

															*  *  *

															The Court transparently takes a common-law approach to today’s decision.  In effect, it states just one rule: Schools can regulate speech less often when that speech occurs off campus.  It then identifies this case as an “example” and “leav[es] for future cases” the job of developing this new common-law doctrine.  Ante, at 7–8.  But the Court’s foundation is untethered from anything stable, and courts (and schools) will almost certainly be at a loss as to what exactly the Court’s opinion today means.

															Perhaps there are good constitutional reasons to depart from the historical rule, and perhaps this Court and lower courts will identify and explain these reasons in the future.  But because the Court does not do so today, and because it reaches the wrong result under the appropriate historical test, I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
*E.g., Deskins v. Gose, 85 Mo. 485, 488–489 (1885) (citing Lander); F. Burke, Law of Public Schools 116, 129 (1880) (“[W]hatsoever has a direct and immediate tendency to injure the school in its important interests, or to subvert the authority of those in charge of it, is properly a subject for regulation and discipline, and this is so wherever the acts may be committed” (citing Lander)); C. Bardeen, The New York School Office’s Handbook 158 (1910) (citing Lander). 


