::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-054
::decision_cite:: 20-297
::decision_name::  TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–297

															_________________

															TRANSUNION LLC, PETITIONER v. SERGIO L. RAMIREZ

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 25, 2021]

															

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Breyer, Justice Sotomayor, and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															TransUnion generated credit reports that erroneously flagged many law-abiding people as potential terrorists and drug traffickers.  In doing so, TransUnion violated several provisions of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) that entitle consumers to accuracy in credit-reporting procedures; to receive information in their credit files; and to receive a summary of their rights.  Yet despite Congress’ judgment that such misdeeds deserve redress, the majority decides that TransUnion’s actions are so insignificant that the Constitution prohibits consumers from vindicating their rights in federal court.  The Constitution does no such thing.

															I

															For decades, the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has compiled a list of “Specially Designated Nationals.”  The list largely includes terrorists and drug traffickers, among other unseemly types.  And, as a general matter, Americans are barred from doing business with those listed.  In the wake of the September 11 attacks, TransUnion began to sell a new (and more expensive) type of credit report that flagged whether an individual’s name matched a name found on that list.

															The system TransUnion used to decide which individuals to flag was rather rudimentary.  It compared only the consumer’s first and last name with the names on the OFAC list.  If the names were identical or similar, TransUnion included in the consumer’s report an “OFAC ADVISOR ALERT,” explaining that the consumer’s name matches a name on the OFAC database.  See, e.g., 951 F.3d 1008, 1017, 1019 (CA9 2020) (“ ‘Cortez’ would match with ‘Cortes’ ”).  TransUnion did not compare birth dates, middle initials, Social Security numbers, or any other available identifier routinely used to collect and verify credit-report data.  Id., at 1019, n. 2.

															In 2005, a consumer sued.  TransUnion had sold an OFAC credit report about this consumer to a car dealership.  The report flagged her—Sandra Jean Cortez, born in May 1944—as a match for a person on the OFAC list: Sandra Cortes Quintero, born in June 1971.  TransUnion withheld this OFAC alert from the credit report that Cortez had requested.  And despite Cortez’s efforts to have the alert removed, TransUnion kept the alert in place for years.

															After a trial, the jury returned a verdict in the consumer’s favor on four FCRA claims, two of which are similar to claims at issue here: (1)  TransUnion failed to follow reasonable procedures that would ensure maximum possible accuracy,

15 U. S. C. §1681e(b); and (2)  TransUnion failed to provide Cortez all information in her file despite her requests, §1681g(a).  See Cortez v. Trans Union, LLC, 617 F.3d 688, 696–706 (CA3 2010).  The jury awarded $50,000 in actual damages and $750,000 in punitive damages, and it also took the unusual step of including on the verdict form a handwritten note urging TransUnion to “completely revam[p]” its business practices.  App. to Brief for Respondent 2a.  The District Court reduced the punitive damages award to $100,000, which the Third Circuit affirmed on appeal, stressing that TransUnion’s failure to, “at the very least, compar[e] birth dates when they are available,” was “reprehensible.”  617 F. 3d, at 723.

															But TransUnion “made surprisingly few changes” after this verdict.  951 F. 3d, at 1021.  It did not begin comparing birth dates.  Or middle initials.  Or citizenship.  In fact, TransUnion did not compare any new piece of information.  Instead, it hedged its language saying a consumer was a “ ‘potential match’ ” rather than saying the person was a “ ‘match.’ ”  Ibid.  And instead of listing matches for similar names, TransUnion required that the first and last names match exactly.  Unsurprisingly, these reports kept flagging law-abiding Americans as potential terrorists and drug traffickers.  And equally unsurprising, someone else sued.

															That brings us to this case.  Sergio Ramirez visited a car dealership, offered to buy a car, and negotiated the terms.  The dealership then ran a joint credit check on Ramirez and his wife.  The salesperson said that the check revealed that Ramirez was on “ ‘a terrorist list,’ ” so the salesperson refused to close the deal with him.  Id., at 1017.

															Ramirez requested and received a copy of his credit report from TransUnion.  The report purported to be “complete and reliable,” but it made no mention of the OFAC alert.  See App. 88–91.  TransUnion later sent a separate “ ‘courtesy’ ” letter, which informed Ramirez that his “TransUnion credit report” had “been mailed to [him] separately.”  Id., at 92.  That letter informed Ramirez that he was a potential match to someone in the OFAC database, but it never revealed that any OFAC information was present on his credit report.  See id., at 92–94.  TransUnion opted not to include with this letter a description of Ramirez’s rights under the FCRA or any information on how to dispute the OFAC match.  951 F. 3d, at 1018.  The letter merely directed Ramirez to visit the Department of Treasury’s website or to call or write TransUnion if Ramirez had any additional questions or concerns.

															Ramirez sued, asserting three claims under the FCRA:  TransUnion willfully failed to follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of the information concerning him, §1681e(b); TransUnion willfully failed to disclose to him all the information in his credit file by withholding the true version of his credit report, §1681g(a)(1); and TransUnion willfully failed to provide a summary of rights when it sent him the courtesy letter, §1681g(c)(2).

															Ramirez also sought to represent a class of individuals who had received a similar OFAC letter from TransUnion.  “[E]veryone in the class: (1) was falsely labeled . . . a potential OFAC match; (2) requested a copy of his or her credit report from TransUnion; and (3) in response, received a credit-report mailing with the OFAC alert redacted and a separate OFAC Letter mailing with no summary of rights.”  Id., at 1022.

															The jury found in favor of the class on all three claims.  And because it also determined that TransUnion’s misconduct was “willfu[l],” §1681n(a), the jury awarded each class member $984.22 in statutory damages (about $8 million total) and $6,353.08 in punitive damages (about $52 million total).

															TransUnion appealed, arguing that the class members lacked standing.  The Ninth Circuit disagreed, explaining that “TransUnion’s reckless handling of OFAC information exposed every class member to a real risk of harm to their concrete privacy, reputational, and informational interests protected by the FCRA.”  Id., at 1037.[1]

															II

															A

															Article III vests “[t]he judicial Power of the United States” in this Court “and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish.”  §1.  This power “shall extend to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States, and Treaties made, or which shall be made, under their Authority.”  §2 (emphasis added).  When a federal court has jurisdiction over a case or controversy, it has a “virtually unflagging obligation” to exercise it.  Colorado River Water Conservation Dist. v. United States,

424 U.S. 800, 817 (1976).

															The mere filing of a complaint in federal court, however, does not a case (or controversy) make.  Article III “does not extend the judicial power to every violation of the constitution” or federal law “which may possibly take place.”  Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 405 (1821).  Rather, the power extends only “to ‘a case in law or equity,’ in which a right, under such law, is asserted.”  Ibid. (emphasis added).

															Key to the scope of the judicial power, then, is whether an individual asserts his or her own rights.  At the time of the founding, whether a court possessed judicial power over an action with no showing of actual damages depended on whether the plaintiff sought to enforce a right held privately by an individual or a duty owed broadly to the community.  See Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins,

578 U.S. 330, 344–346 (2016) (Thomas, J., concurring); see also Thole v. U. S. Bank N. A., 590 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2020) (same) (slip op., at 1–2); 3 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 2 (J. Chitty ed. 1826); 4 id., at 5.  Where an individual sought to sue someone for a violation of his private rights, such as trespass on his land, the plaintiff needed only to allege the violation.  See Entick v. Carrington, 2 Wils. K. B. 275, 291, 95 Eng. Rep. 807, 817 (K. B. 1765).  Courts typically did not require any showing of actual damage.  See Uzuegbunam v. Preczewski, 592 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2021) (slip op., at 5–6).  But where an individual sued based on the violation of a duty owed broadly to the whole community, such as the overgrazing of public lands, courts required “not only injuria [legal injury] but also damnum [damage].”  Spokeo, 578 U. S., at 346 (Thomas, J., concurring) (citing Robert Marys’s Case, 9 Co. Rep. 111b, 112b, 77 Eng. Rep. 895, 898–899 (K. B. 1613); brackets in original).

															This distinction mattered not only for traditional common-law rights, but also for newly created statutory ones.  The First Congress enacted a law defining copyrights and gave copyright holders the right to sue infringing persons in order to recover statutory damages, even if the holder “could not show monetary loss.”  Muransky v. Godiva Chocolatier, Inc., 979 F.3d 917, 972 (CA11 2020) (Jordan, J., dissenting) (citing Act of May 31, 1790, §2,

1Stat.
124–125).  In the patent context, a defendant challenged an infringement suit brought under a similar law.  Along the lines of what TransUnion argues here, the infringer contended that “the making of a machine cannot be an offence, because no action lies, except for actual damage, and there can be no actual damages, or even a rule for damages, for an infringement by making a machine.”  Whittemore v. Cutter, 29 F. Cas. 1120, 1121 (No. 17,600) (CC Mass. 1813).  Riding circuit, Justice Story rejected that theory, noting that the plaintiff could sue in federal court merely by alleging a violation of a private right: “[W]here the law gives an action for a particular act, the doing of that act imports of itself a damage to the party” because “[e]very violation of a right imports some damage.”  Ibid.; cf. Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477, 494 (1851) (patent rights “did not exist at common law”).[2]

															The principle that the violation of an individual right gives rise to an actionable harm was widespread at the founding, in early American history, and in many modern cases.  See Uzuegbunam, 592 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 5–8) (collecting cases); Havens Realty Corp. v. Coleman,

455 U.S. 363, 373 (1982) (“[T]he actual or threatened injury required by Art. III may exist solely by virtue of statutes creating legal rights, the invasion of which creates standing” (citing cases; brackets and internal quotation marks omitted)).  And this understanding accords proper respect for the power of Congress and other legislatures to define legal rights.  No one could seriously dispute, for example, that a violation of property rights is actionable, but as a general matter, “[p]roperty rights are created by the State.”  Palazzolo v. Rhode Island,

533 U.S. 606, 626 (2001).  In light of this history, tradition, and common practice, our test should be clear: So long as a “statute fixes a minimum of recovery . . . , there would seem to be no doubt of the right of one who establishes a technical ground of action to recover this minimum sum without any specific showing of loss.”  T. Cooley, Law of Torts *271.[3]  While the Court today discusses the supposed failure to show “injury in fact,” courts for centuries held that injury in law to a private right was enough to create a case or controversy.

															B

															Here, each class member established a violation of his or her private rights.  The jury found that TransUnion violated three separate duties created by statute.  See App. 690.  All three of those duties are owed to individuals, not to the community writ large.  Take §1681e(b), which requires a consumer reporting agency to “follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of the information concerning the individual about whom the report relates.”  This statute creates a duty: to use reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy.  And that duty is particularized to an individual: the subject of the report.  Section 1681g does the same.  It requires an agency to “clearly and accurately disclose” to a consumer, upon his request, “[a]ll information in the consumer’s file at the time of the request” and to include a written “summary of rights” with that “written disclosure.”  §§1681g(a), (c)(2).  Those directives likewise create duties: provide all information in the consumer’s file and accompany the disclosure with a summary of rights.  And these too are owed to a single person: the consumer who requests the information.

															Were there any doubt that consumer reporting agencies owe these duties to specific individuals—and not to the larger community—Congress created a cause of action providing that “[a]ny person who willfully fails to comply” with an FCRA requirement “with respect to any consumer is liable to that consumer.”  §1681n(a) (emphasis added).  If a consumer reporting agency breaches any FCRA duty owed to a specific consumer, then that individual (not all consumers) may sue the agency.  No one disputes that each class member possesses this cause of action.  And no one disputes that the jury found that TransUnion violated each class member’s individual rights.  The plaintiffs thus have a sufficient injury to sue in federal court.

															C

															The Court chooses a different approach.  Rejecting this history, the majority holds that the mere violation of a personal legal right is not—and never can be—an injury sufficient to establish standing.  What matters for the Court is only that the “injury in fact be ‘concrete.’ ” Ante, at 8.  “No concrete harm, no standing.”  Ante, at 1, 27.

															That may be a pithy catchphrase, but it is worth pausing to ask why “concrete” injury in fact should be the sole inquiry.  After all, it was not until 1970—“180 years after the ratification of Article III”—that this Court even introduced the “injury in fact” (as opposed to injury in law) concept of standing.  Sierra v. Hallandale Beach, 996 F.3d 1110, 1117 (CA11 2021) (Newsom, J., concurring).  And the concept then was not even about constitutional standing; it concerned a statutory cause of action under the Administrative Procedure Act.  See Association of Data Processing Service Organizations, Inc. v. Camp,

397 U.S. 150, 153 (1970) (explaining that the injury-in-fact requirement “concerns, apart from the ‘case’ or ‘controversy’ test, the question whether the interest sought to be protected by the complainant is arguably within the zone of interests to be protected or regulated by the statute or constitutional guarantee in question”).

															The Court later took this statutory requirement and began to graft it onto its constitutional standing analysis.  See, e.g., Warth v. Seldin,

422 U.S. 490 (1975).  But even then, injury in fact served as an additional way to get into federal court.  Article III injury still could “exist solely by virtue of ‘statutes creating legal rights, the invasion of which creates standing.’ ”  Id., at 500 (quoting Linda R. S. v. Richard D.,

410 U.S. 614, 617, n. 3 (1973)).  So the introduction of an injury-in-fact requirement, in effect, “represented a substantial broadening of access to the federal courts.”  Simon v. Eastern Ky. Welfare Rights Organization, 

426 U.S. 26, 39 (1976).  A plaintiff could now invoke a federal court’s judicial power by establishing injury by virtue of a violated legal right or by alleging some other type of “personal interest.”  Ibid.

															In the context of public rights, the Court continued to require more than just a legal violation.  In Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife,

504 U.S. 555 (1992), for example, the Court concluded that several environmental organizations lacked standing to challenge a regulation about interagency communications, even though the organizations invoked a citizen-suit provision allowing “ ‘any person [to] commence a civil suit . . . to enjoin any person . . . who is alleged to be in violation of ’ ” the law.  See id., at 558, 571–572;

16 U. S. C. §1540(g).  Echoing the historical distinction between duties owed to individuals and those owed to the community, the Court explained that a plaintiff must do more than raise “a generally available grievance about government—claiming only harm to his and every citizen’s interest in proper application of the Constitution and laws.”  504 U. S., at 573.  “Vindicating the public interest (including the public interest in Government observance of the Constitution and laws) is the function of Congress and the Chief Executive.”  Id., at 576.  “ ‘The province of the court,’ ” in contrast, “ ‘is, solely, to decide on the rights of individuals.’ ”  Ibid. (quoting Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 170 (1803)).

															The same public-rights analysis prevailed in Summers v. Earth Island Institute,

555 U.S. 488 (2009).  There, a group of organizations sought to prevent the United States Forest Service from enforcing regulations that exempt certain projects from notice and comment.  Id., at 490.  The Court, again, found that the mere violation of the law “without some concrete interest that is affected by the deprivation—a procedural right in vacuo—is insufficient to create Article III standing.”  Id., at 496.  But again, this was rooted in the context of public rights: “ ‘It would exceed Article III’s limitations if, at the behest of Congress and in the absence of any showing of concrete injury, we were to entertain citizen suits to vindicate the public’s nonconcrete interest in the proper administration of the laws.’ ”  Id., at 497 (emphasis added; brackets omitted).

															In Spokeo, the Court built on this approach.  Based on a few sentences from Lujan and Summers, the Court concluded that a plaintiff does not automatically “satisf[y] the injury-in-fact requirement whenever a statute grants a person a statutory right and purports to authorize that person to sue to vindicate that right.”  Spokeo, 578 U. S., at 341.  But the Court made clear that “Congress is well positioned to identify intangible harms that meet minimum Article III requirements” and explained that “the violation of a procedural right granted by statute can be sufficient in some circumstances to constitute injury in fact.”  Id., at 341, 342 (emphasis added).

															Reconciling these statements has proved to be a challenge.  See Sierra, 996 F. 3d, at 1116–1117 (Newsom, J., concurring) (collecting examples of inconsistent decisions).  But “[t]he historical restrictions on standing” offer considerable guidance.  Thole, 590 U. S., at ___ (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 1).  A statute that creates a public right plus a citizen-suit cause of action is insufficient by itself to establish standing.  See Lujan, 504 U. S., at 576.[4]  A statute that creates a private right and a cause of action, however, does gives plaintiffs an adequate interest in vindicating their private rights in federal court.  See Thole, 590 U. S., at ___ (Thomas, J., concurring); Spokeo, 578 U. S., at ___–___ (same); see also Muransky, 979 F. 3d, at 970–972 (Jordan, J., dissenting); Huff v. TeleCheck Servs., Inc., 923 F.3d 458, 469 (CA6 2019) (“Article III standing may draw a line between private and public rights”); Bryant v. Compass Group USA, Inc., 958 F. 3d, 617, 624 (CA7 2020) (the Spokeo concurrence “drew a useful distinction between two types of injuries”).

															The majority today, however, takes the road less traveled: “[U]nder Article III, an injury in law is not an injury in fact.”  Ante, at 11; but see Webb v. Portland Mfg. Co., 29 F. Cas. 506, 508 (No. 17,322) (CC Me. 1838) (“The law tolerates no farther inquiry than whether there has been the violation of a right”).  No matter if the right is personal or if the legislature deems the right worthy of legal protection, legislatures are constitutionally unable to offer the protection of the federal courts for anything other than money, bodily integrity, and anything else that this Court thinks looks close enough to rights existing at common law.  See ante, at 9.  The 1970s injury-in-fact theory has now displaced the traditional gateway into federal courts.

															This approach is remarkable in both its novelty and effects.  Never before has this Court declared that legal injury is inherently insufficient to support standing.[5]  And never before has this Court declared that legislatures are constitutionally precluded from creating legal rights enforceable in federal court if those rights deviate too far from their common-law roots.  According to the majority, courts alone have the power to sift and weigh harms to decide whether they merit the Federal Judiciary’s attention.  In the name of protecting the separation of powers, ante, at 7, 14, this Court has relieved the legislature of its power to create and define rights.

															III

															Even assuming that this Court should be in the business of second-guessing private rights, this is a rather odd case to say that Congress went too far.  TransUnion’s misconduct here is exactly the sort of thing that has long merited legal redress.

															As an initial matter, this Court has recognized that the unlawful withholding of requested information causes “a sufficiently distinct injury to provide standing to sue.”  Public Citizen v. Department of Justice,

491 U.S. 440, 449 (1989); see also Havens Realty Corp., 455 U. S., at 374.  Here, TransUnion unlawfully withheld from each class member the OFAC version of his or her credit report that the class member requested.  And TransUnion unlawfully failed to send a summary of rights.  The majority’s response is to contend that the plaintiffs actually did not allege that they failed to receive any required information; they alleged only that they received it in the “wrong format.”  Ante, at 26.  

															That reframing finds little support in the complaint, which alleged that TransUnion “fail[ed] to include the OFAC alerts . . . in the consumer’s own files which consumers, as of right, may request and obtain,” and that TransUnion did “not advise consumers that they may dispute inaccurate OFAC alerts.”  Class Action Complaint in No. 3:12–cv–00632, ECF Doc. 1 (ND Cal.), p. 5.  It also finds no footing in the record.  Neither the mailed credit report nor separate letter provide any indication that a person’s report is marked with an OFAC alert.  See, e.g., App. 88–94. 

															Were there any doubt about the facts below, we have the helpful benefit of a jury verdict.  The jury found that “Defendant TransUnion, LLC willfully fail[ed] to clearly and accurately disclose OFAC information in the written disclosures it sent to members of the class.”  Id., at 690.  And the jury found that “Defendant TransUnion, LLC willfully fail[ed] to provide class members a summary of their FCRA rights with each written disclosure made to them.”  Ibid.  I would not be so quick as to recharacterize these jury findings as mere “formatting” errors.  Ante, at 2, 25–26; see also U. S. Const., Amdt. 7 (“no fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the United States, than according to the rules of the common law”).

															Moreover, to the extent this Court privileges concrete, financial injury for standing purposes, recall that TransUnion charged its clients extra to receive credit reports with the OFAC designation.  According to TransUnion, these special OFAC credit reports are valuable.  Even the majority must admit that withholding something of value from another person—that is, “monetary harm”—falls in the heartland of tangible injury in fact.  Ante, at 1, 9.  Recognizing as much, TransUnion admits that its clients would have standing to sue if they, like the class members, did not receive the OFAC credit reports they had requested.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 9.

															And then there is the standalone harm caused by the rather extreme errors in the credit reports.  The majority (rightly) decides that having one’s identity falsely and publically associated with terrorism and drug trafficking is itself a concrete harm.  Ante, at 16–17.  For good reason.  This case is a particularly grave example of the harm this Court identified as central to the FCRA: “curb[ing] the dissemination of false information.”  Spokeo, 578 U. S., at 342.  And it aligns closely with a “harm that has traditionally been regarded as providing a basis for a lawsuit.”  Id., at 341.  Historically, “[o]ne who falsely, and without a privilege to do so, publishes matter defamatory to another in such a manner as to make the publication a libel is liable to the other,” even though “no special harm or loss of reputation results therefrom.”  Restatement of Torts §569, p. 165 (1938).

															The question this Court has identified as key, then, is whether a plaintiff established “a degree of risk” that is “sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement.”  Spokeo, 578 U. S., at 343.  Here, in a 7-month period, it is undisputed that nearly 25 percent of the class had false OFAC-flags sent to potential creditors.  Twenty-five percent over just a 7-month period seems, to me, “a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement.”  Ibid.  If 25 percent is insufficient, then, pray tell, what percentage is?

															The majority deflects this line of analysis by all but eliminating the risk-of-harm analysis.  According to the majority, an elevated risk of harm simply shows that a concrete harm is imminent and thus may support only a claim for injunctive relief.  Ante, at 20, 26.  But this reworking of Spokeo fails for two reasons.  First, it ignores what Spokeo said:  “[Our opinion] does not mean . . . that the risk of real harm cannot satisfy the requirement of concreteness.”  Spokeo, 578 U. S., at 341.  Second, it ignores what Spokeo did.  The Court in Spokeo remanded the respondent’s claims for statutory damages to the Ninth Circuit to consider “whether the . . . violations alleged in this case entail a degree of risk sufficient to meet the concreteness requirement.”  Id., at 342–343.  The theory that risk of harm matters only for injunctive relief is thus squarely foreclosed by Spokeo itself.

															But even if risk of harm is out, the Ninth Circuit indicated that every class member may have had an OFAC alert disclosed.  According to the court below, TransUnion not only published this information to creditors for a quarter of the class but also “communicated about the database information and OFAC matches” with a third party.  951 F. 3d, at 1026; cf. Cortez, 617 F. 3d, at 711 (TransUnion cannot avoid FCRA liability “by simply contracting with a third party to store and maintain information”).  Respondent adds to this by pointing out that TransUnion published this information to vendors that printed and sent the mailings.  See Brief for Respondent 16; see also App. 161 (deposition testimony explaining that “a printed credit report . . . would have been sent through our print vendor through the mail and delivered to the consumer requesting the file disclosure); id., at 545 (trial testimony identifying three different print-vendor companies that worked with TransUnion during the relevant time period).  In the historical context of libel, publication to even a single other party could be enough to give rise to suit.  This was true, even where the third party was a telegraph company,[6] an attorney,[7] or a stenographer who merely writes the information down.[8]  Surely with a harm so closely paralleling a common-law harm, this is an instance where a plaintiff “need not allege any additional harm beyond the one Congress has identified.”  Spokeo, 578 U. S., at 342 (emphasis deleted).

															But even setting aside everything already mentioned—the Constitution’s text, history, precedent, financial harm, libel, the risk of publication, and actual disclosure to a third party—one need only tap into common sense to know that receiving a letter identifying you as a potential drug trafficker or terrorist is harmful.  All the more so when the information comes in the context of a credit report, the entire purpose of which is to demonstrate that a person can be trusted.

															And if this sort of confusing and frustrating communication is insufficient to establish a real injury, one wonders what could rise to that level.  If, instead of falsely identifying Ramirez as a potential drug trafficker or terrorist, TransUnion had flagged him as a “potential” child molester, would that alone still be insufficient to open the courthouse doors?  What about falsely labeling a person a racist?  Including a slur on the report?  Or what about openly reducing a person’s credit score by several points because of his race?  If none of these constitutes an injury in fact, how can that possibly square with our past cases indicating that the inability to “observe an animal species, even for purely esthetic purposes, . . . undeniably” is?  Lujan, 504 U. S., at 562; see also Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc.,

528 U.S. 167, 183 (2000) (“plaintiffs adequately allege injury in fact when they aver that they use the affected area and are persons for whom the aesthetic and recreational values of the area will be lessened” (internal quotation marks omitted)); Summers, 555 U. S., at 494 (“[I]f . . . harm in fact affects the recreational or even the mere esthetic interests of the plaintiff, that will suffice”).  Had the class members claimed an aesthetic interest in viewing an accurate report, would this case have come out differently?

															And if some of these examples do cause sufficiently “concrete” and “real”—though “intangible”—harms, how do we go about picking and choosing which ones do and which do not?  I see no way to engage in this “inescapably value-laden” inquiry without it “devolv[ing] into [pure] policy judgment.”  Sierra, 996 F. 3d, at 1129 (Newsom, J., concurring).  Weighing the harms caused by specific facts and choosing remedies seems to me like a much better fit for legislatures and juries than for this Court.

															 Finally, it is not just the harm that is reminiscent of a constitutional case or controversy.  So too is the remedy.  Although statutory damages are not necessarily a proxy for unjust enrichment, they have a similar flavor in this case.  TransUnion violated consumers’ rights in order to create and sell a product to its clients.  Reckless handling of consumer information and bungled responses to requests for information served a means to an end.  And the end was financial gain.  “TransUnion could not confirm that a single OFAC alert sold to its customers was accurate.” 951 F. 3d, at 1021, n. 4.  Yet thanks to this Court, it may well be in a position to keep much of its ill-gotten gains. [9]

															*  *  *

															Ultimately, the majority seems to pose to the reader a single rhetorical question: Who could possibly think that a person is harmed when he requests and is sent an incomplete credit report, or is sent a suspicious notice informing him that he may be a designated drug trafficker or terrorist, or is not sent anything informing him of how to remove this inaccurate red flag?  The answer is, of course, legion: Congress, the President, the jury, the District Court, the Ninth Circuit, and four Members of this Court.

															I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 TransUnion also contends that Ramirez’s claims and defenses are not typical of those of the class.  The Court declines to reach that question because its jurisdictional holding is dispositive.  Ante, at 27.  In my view, the District Court did not abuse its discretion in certifying the class given the similarities among the claims and defenses at issue. 

2
 The “public rights” terminology has been used to refer to two different concepts.  In one context, these rights are “ ‘take[n] from the public’ ”—like the right to make, use, or sell an invention—and “ ‘bestow[ed] . . . upon the’ ” individual, like a “decision to grant a public franchise.”  Oil States Energy Services, LLC v. Greene’s Energy Group, LLC, 584 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2018) (slip op., at 6–7).  Disputes with the Government over these rights generally can be resolved “outside of an Article III court.”  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 9–10).  Here, in contrast, the term “public rights” refers to duties owed collectively to the community.  For example, Congress owes a duty to all Americans to legislate within its constitutional confines.  But not every single American can sue over Congress’ failure to do so.  Only individuals who, at a minimum, establish harm beyond the mere violation of that constitutional duty can sue.  Cf. Fairchild v. Hughes,

258 U.S. 126, 129–130 (1922) (“Plaintiff has only the right, possessed by every citizen, to require that the Government be administered according to law and that the public moneys be not wasted.  Obviously this general right does not entitle a private citizen to institute in the federal courts a suit to secure by indirection a determination whether a statute, if passed, or a constitutional amendment, about to be adopted, will be valid”). 

3
 Etymology is also a helpful guide.  The word “injury” stems from the Latin “injuria,” which combines “in” (expressing negation) and “jus” (right, law, justice).  See Barnhart Dictionary of Etymology 529 (1988). 

4
 But see Caminker, Comment, The Constitutionality of Qui Tam Actions, 99 Yale L. J. 341, 342, n. 3 (1989) (“Six statutes [enacted by the First Congress] imposed penalties and/or forfeitures for conduct injurious to the general public and expressly authorized suits by private informers, with the recovery being shared between the informer and the United States”); McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 317, 321–322 (1819) (reviewing “an action of debt brought by the defendant in error . . . who sued as well for himself as for the State of Maryland . . . to recover certain penalties”). 

5
 See, e.g., Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife,

504 U.S. 555, 578 (1992) (“Nothing in this contradicts the principle that the injury required by Art. III may exist solely by virtue of ‘statutes creating legal rights, the invasion of which creates standing” (internal quotation marks, brackets, and ellipsis omitted)); Warth v. Seldin,

422 U.S. 490, 514 (1975) (“Congress may create a statutory right or entitlement the alleged deprivation of which can confer standing to sue even where the plaintiff would have suffered no judicially cognizable injury in the absence of statute”); Linda R. S. v. Richard D.,

410 U.S. 614, 617, n. 3 (1973) (“Congress may enact statutes creating legal rights, the invasion of which creates standing, even though no injury would exist without the statute”). 

6
 Munson v. Lathrop, 96 Wis. 386, 389, 71 N.W. 596, 597 (1897) (“The writing of the message, and the delivery of it by him to the [telegraph] company for transmission, as mentioned, was a publication of the same”). 

7
 Hedgepeth v. Coleman, 183 N. C. 309, 312–313, 111 S.E. 517, 519 (1922) (“[I]t has been held that the publication was sufficient where the defendant had communicated the defamatory matter to the plaintiff ’s agent, or attorney; or had read it to a friend before posting it to the plaintiff; or had procured it to be copied, or sealed in the form of a letter addressed to the plaintiff and left in the house of a neighbor by whom it was read; or had caused it to be delivered to and read by a member of the plaintiff ’s family”). 

8
 Rickbeil v. Grafton Deaconess Hospital, 74 N. D. 525, 542 (1946) (“We hold that the dictating of this letter by the manager to the stenographer and her transcription of her notes into the written instrument constitutes publication within the purview of the law of libel: whether the relationship be that of master and servant or of coemployees of a corporation”); see also Larimore v. Blaylock, 259 Va. 568, 573, 528 S.E.2d 119, 122 (2000) (rejecting an argument of “absolute protection of the ‘intracorporate immunity doctrine’ ” for defamatory statements); but see Swindle v. State, 10 Tenn. 581, 582 (1831) (“ ‘A personal libel is published when it arrives to the person against whom it is written, pursuant to the design of the author, or is made known to any other person, by any means to which the dissent of the author is not necessarily implied’ ” (emphasis added)). 

9
 Today’s decision might actually be a pyrrhic victory for TransUnion.  The Court does not prohibit Congress from creating statutory rights for consumers; it simply holds that federal courts lack jurisdiction to hear some of these cases.  That combination may leave state courts—which “are not bound by the limitations of a case or controversy or other federal rules of justiciability even when they address issues of federal law,” ASARCO Inc. v. Kadish,

490 U.S. 605, 617 (1989)—as the sole forum for such cases, with defendants unable to seek removal to federal court.  See also Bennett, The Paradox of Exclusive State-Court Jurisdiction Over Federal Claims, 105 Minn. L. Rev. 1211 (2021).  By declaring that federal courts lack jurisdiction, the Court has thus ensured that state courts will exercise exclusive jurisdiction over these sorts of class actions. 


