::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-021
::decision_cite:: 20-219
::decision_name::  Cummings v. Premier Rehab Keller, P.L.L.C.
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–219

															_________________

															JANE CUMMINGS, PETITIONER v. PREMIER REHAB KELLER, P.L.L.C.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[April 28, 2022]

															

															Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Sotomayor and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															Using its Spending Clause authority, Congress has enacted four statutes that prohibit recipients of federal funds from discriminating on the basis of certain protected characteristics, including (depending upon the statute) race, color, national origin, sex, disability, or age.  See Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI,

42 U. S. C. §2000d; Education Amendments Act of 1972, Title IX,

20 U. S. C. §1681; Rehabilitation Act of 1973, §504,

29 U. S. C. §794; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), §1557,

42 U. S. C. §18116.  We have held that victims of intentional violations of these statutes may bring lawsuits seeking to recover, among other relief, compensatory damages.  Franklin v. Gwinnett County Public Schools,

503 U.S. 60, 76 (1992).  Today, the Court holds that the compensatory damages available under these statutes cannot include compensation for emotional suffering.

															The Court has asked the right question: “[W]ould a prospective funding recipient, at the time it engaged in the process of deciding whether to accept federal dollars, have been aware that it would face such liability?”  Ante, at 5 (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted).  And it has correctly observed that our precedents instruct us to answer this question by drawing an analogy to contract law.  But I disagree with how the Court has applied that analogy.

															The Court looks broadly at all contracts.  It says that, most of the time, damages for breach of contract did not include compensation for emotional distress. Ante, at 7.  And it then holds that emotional distress damages are not available under the Spending Clause statutes at issue here.  Ibid.  But, in my view, contracts analogous to these statutes did allow for recovery of emotional distress damages.  Emotional distress damages were traditionally available when “the contract or the breach” was “of such a kind that serious emotional disturbance was a particularly likely result.”  Restatement (Second) of Contracts §353, p. 149 (1979).

															The Spending Clause statutes before us prohibit intentional invidious discrimination.  That kind of discrimination is particularly likely to cause serious emotional disturbance.  Thus, applying our precedents’ contract analogy, I would hold that victims of intentional violations of these antidiscrimination statutes can recover compensatory damages for emotional suffering.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															I begin with agreement.  First, like the Court, I recognize that “it is ‘beyond dispute that private individuals may sue to enforce’ the [four] antidiscrimination statutes we consider here.”  Ante, at 3 (quoting Barnes v. Gorman,

536 U.S. 181, 185 (2002)).  Title VI (prohibiting race discrimination) and Title IX (prohibiting sex discrimination) contain implied rights of action that have been ratified by Congress.  Alexander v. Sandoval,

532 U.S. 275, 280 (2001).  The Rehabilitation Act (prohibiting disability discrimination) and the ACA (prohibiting race, sex, disability, and age discrimination) expressly incorporate the rights and remedies available under Title VI.

29 U. S. C. §794a(a)(2);

42 U. S. C. §18116(a).  We have treated these statutes as providing “coextensive” remedies.  Barnes, 536 U. S., at 185.  Thus, the Court’s decision today will affect the remedies available under all four of these statutes, impacting victims of race, sex, disability, and age discrimination alike.

															Second, like the Court, I also recognize that recipients of federal funding are subject to a particular form of liability only if they are “on notice” that, by accepting the funds, they expose themselves to that form of liability.  Id., at 187. And a funding recipient is “generally on notice that it is subject . . . to those remedies traditionally available in suits for breach of contract.”  Ibid.  Thus, the basic question here is whether damages for emotional suffering were “traditionally available” as remedies “in suits for breach of contract.”  Ibid.

															II

															Unlike the Court, though, I believe the answer to that basic question is yes.  Damages for emotional suffering have long been available as remedies for suits in breach of contract—at least where the breach was particularly likely to cause suffering of that kind.

															A general, overarching principle of contract remedies is set forth in the Restatement (Second) of Contracts: “Contract damages are ordinarily based on the injured party’s expectation interest and are intended to give him the benefit of his bargain by awarding him a sum of money that will, to the extent possible, put him in as good a position as he would have been in had the contract been performed.”  §347, Comment a, at 112; see also 3 E. Farnsworth, Contracts §12.8, p. 188 (2d ed. 1998) (Farnsworth) (“The basic principle for the measurement of those damages is that of compensation based on the injured party’s expectation”); 3 S. Williston, Law of Contracts §1338, p. 2392 (1920) (Williston) (“[T]he general purpose of the law is, and should be, to give compensation:—that is, to put the plaintiff in as good a position as he would have been in had the defendant kept his contract”).

															This simple principle helps explain why compensatory damages are generally available as remedies and punitive damages are not.  By definition, compensatory damages serve contract law’s “general purpose,” namely, to “give compensation.”  Ibid.  But punitive damages go beyond “compensat[ing] the injured party for lost expectation” and instead “put [him] in a better position than had the contract been performed.”  3 Farnsworth §12.8, at 193.

															The same general principle also helps to explain the many cases in which damages for emotional suffering are not available.  Most contracts are commercial contracts entered for pecuniary gain.  Pecuniary remedies are therefore typically sufficient to compensate the injured party for their expected losses.  See, e.g., C. McCormick, Law of Damages §145, p. 592 (1935) (McCormick) (“Most contracts which come before the courts are commercial contracts.  The pecuniary interest is dominant”); 1 J. Sutherland, Law of Damages 156 (1883) (Sutherland) (“In actions upon contract, the losses sustained do not, by reason of the nature of the transactions which they involve, embrace, ordinarily, any other than pecuniary elements”); 3 Farnsworth §12.17, at 894–895 (“[T]he real basis of this rule is that [recovery for emotional distress] is likely to result in disproportionate compensation”); cf. Restatement (Second) of Contracts §351(1), at 135 (“Damages are not recoverable for loss that the party in breach did not have reason to foresee as a probable result of the breach when the contract was made”).

															Finally, and most importantly here, the same general rule also helps to explain the cases in which contract law did make available damages for emotional suffering.  Contract law treatises make clear that expected losses from the breach of a contract entered for nonpecuniary purposes might reasonably include nonpecuniary harms.  So contract law traditionally does award damages for emotional distress “where other than pecuniary benefits [were] contracted for” or where the breach “was particularly likely to result in serious emotional disturbance.”  3 Williston §1340, at 2396; 3 Farnsworth §12.17, at 895; see also, e.g., Restatement (Second) of Contracts §353, at 149 (“Recovery for emotional disturbance” was allowed where “the contract or the breach is of such a kind that serious emotional disturbance was a particularly likely result”); 1 Sutherland 157–158 (damages should be “appropriate to the objects of the contract”); 1 T. Sedgwick, Measure of Damages §45, p. 61 (8th ed. 1891) (Sedgwick) (“ ‘Where other than pecuniary benefits are contracted for, other than pecuniary standards will be applied to the ascertainment of damages flowing from the breach’ ”).

															Examples of contracts that gave rise to emotional distress damages under this rule have included, among others, contracts for marriage, see, e.g., 1 Sutherland 156, and n. 4; contracts by common carriers, innkeepers, or places of public resort or entertainment, see, e.g., McCormick §145, at 593, and nn. 48–50; contracts related to the handling of a body, see, e.g., 1 Sedgwick §45, at 62, and n. a; contracts for delivery of a sensitive telegram message, see, e.g., id., at 62, and n. b; and more.  In these cases, emotional distress damages are compensatory because they “ ‘make good the wrong done.’ ”  Franklin, 503 U. S., at 66; see also Memphis Community School Dist. v. Stachura,

477 U.S. 299, 307 (1986).

															III

															Does breach of a promise not to discriminate fall into this category?  I should think so.  The statutes before us seek to eradicate invidious discrimination.  That purpose is clearly nonpecuniary.  And discrimination based on race, color, national origin, sex, age, or disability is particularly likely to cause serious emotional harm.  Often, emotional injury is the primary (sometimes the only) harm caused by discrimination, with pecuniary injury at most secondary.  Consider, for example, the plaintiff in Franklin—a high school student who was repeatedly sexually assaulted by her teacher.  503 U. S., at 63–64.  Or the plaintiff in Tennessee v. Lane,

541 U.S. 509 (2004), who used a wheelchair and, because a building lacked wheelchair accessibility, was forced to crawl up two flights of stairs.  Id., at 513–514.  Or the many historical examples of racial segregation in which Black patrons were made to use separate facilities or services.  Regardless of whether financial injuries were present in these cases, the major (and foreseeable) harm was the emotional distress caused by the indignity and humiliation of discrimination itself.

															As a Member of this Court noted in respect to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Congress’ antidiscrimination laws seek “the vindication of human dignity and not mere economics.”  Heart of Atlanta Motel, Inc. v. United States,

379 U.S. 241, 291 (1964) (Goldberg, J., concurring).  Quoting the Senate Commerce Committee, Justice Goldberg observed:

															“ ‘Discrimination is not simply dollars and cents, hamburgers and movies; it is the humiliation, frustration, and embarrassment that a person must surely feel when he is told that he is unacceptable as a member of the public because of his race or color.  It is equally the inability to explain to a child that regardless of education, civility, courtesy, and morality he will be denied the right to enjoy equal treatment, even though he be a citizen of the United States and may well be called upon to lay down his life to assure this Nation continues.’ ”  Id., at 292 (quoting S. Rep. No. 872, 88th Cong., 2d Sess., 16 (1964)).

															It is difficult to believe that prospective funding recipients would be unaware that intentional discrimination based on race, sex, age, or disability is particularly likely to cause emotional suffering.  Nor do I believe they would be unaware that, were an analogous contractual breach at issue, they could be held legally liable for causing suffering of that kind.  The contract rule allowing emotional distress damages under such circumstances is neither obscure nor unsettled, as the Court claims.  Ante, at 8, 11–12.  To the contrary, it is clearly laid out in the Restatement (Second) of Contracts: “Recovery for emotional disturbance will be excluded unless the breach also caused bodily harm or the contract or the breach is of such a kind that serious emotional disturbance was a particularly likely result.”  §353, at 149 (emphasis added).  And the Restatement’s rule is well supported by treatise writers, who have described the law similarly.  See, e.g., 3 Farnsworth §12.17, at 895; 1 Sedgwick §45, at 62; 16 J. Murray, Corbin on Contracts §AG–59.01, p. 855 (2017) (“Emotional damages arising from racial or other forms of discrimination are clearly foreseeable.  There should be no question about their recovery in a contract action where such conduct is proven”).  I would therefore conclude that contract law is sufficiently clear to put prospective funding recipients on notice that intentional discrimination can expose them to potential liability for emotional suffering.

															IV

															In concluding otherwise, the Court invokes our decision in Barnes.  In Barnes, we reaffirmed that funding recipients could be held liable for compensatory damages because compensatory damages are a “for[m] of relief traditionally available in suits for breach of contract.”  536 U. S., at 187.  But, we held, they are not liable for punitive damages because punitive damages were “generally not available for breach of contract.”  Ibid.

															The Court today reads Barnes to imply that prospective funding recipients can only be expected to be aware of “basic, general rules,” not exceptions or subsidiary rules that govern specific circumstances.  Ante, at 11.  How does the Court derive that restrictive approach from Barnes, which did not purport to announce such a limitation?  Because, the Court says, punitive damages were sometimes available in suits for breach of contract where the breach was “ ‘also a tort for which punitive damages are recoverable.’ ”  Ante, at 9 (quoting Restatement (Second) of Contracts §355).  The Court assumes that Barnes must have refused to consider any exceptions at all because otherwise it would have relied on this exception to hold that punitive damages were available.  Ante, at 9.  The Court believes that damages for emotional suffering are similar: It says they, too, are available only under an exception to the general rule, and that exception is too “ ‘fine-grained’ ” to put federal funding recipients on notice of their potential exposure to liability.  Ante, at 8 (quoting Brief for Petitioner 33).

															The Court’s comparison to punitive damages is, in my view, unpersuasive.  Punitive damages are not embraced by Barnes’ contract-law analogy because they do not serve contract law’s central purpose of “compensat[ing] the injured party”; instead, they “punish the party in breach.”  Restatement (Second) of Contracts §355, Comment a, at 154; see also Barnes, 536 U. S., at 189 (distinguishing punitive damages, which are unavailable, from compensatory damages, which are available, because the former do not “ ‘make good the wrong done’ ”).  Accordingly, the punitive damages exception cited by the Court does not rely on contract-law principles at all, but rather, on tort law.  The Restatement clarifies that, when contract and tort claims may overlap, contract law “does not preclude an award of punitive damages . . . if such an award would be proper under the law of torts.” Restatement (Second) of Contracts §355, Comment b, at 155 (emphasis added); see also id., at 156 (including Illustrations in which the “right to recover punitive damages is governed by Restatement, Second, Torts §908”).  This special feature makes the punitive damages exception an inapt comparator for Barnes’ contract-law analogy.

															The same is not true of emotional distress damages.  The Restatement does not attribute the availability of emotional distress damages to tort rather than contract law.  See Restatement (Second) of Contracts §353, at 149; see also McCormick §145, at 593–594 (“Sometimes reliance is placed upon accompanying tortious conduct such as assault or defamation . . . but not always, nor do these elements seem essential” (emphasis added)); e.g., Aaron v. Ward, 203 N.Y. 351, 354, 96 N.E. 736, 737 (1911) (“The action is for a breach of the defendant’s contract and not for a tortious expulsion”).  That makes sense because, unlike punitive damages, emotional distress damages can, and do, serve contract law’s central purpose of compensating the injured party for their expected losses, at least where the contract secured primarily nonpecuniary benefits and contemplated primarily nonpecuniary injuries.  As I said above, in such cases, emotional distress damages are a form of compensatory damages that “ ‘make good the wrong done.’ ”  Franklin, 503 U. S., at 66; see also Memphis Community School Dist., 477 U. S., at 306–307, and n. 9.

															I have already explained above why I believe federal funding recipients would be aware that intentional invidious discrimination is particularly likely to cause emotional suffering.  And I have also explained why, aware of general principles of contract law, they would also be aware that damages for emotional suffering are available for breaches of contract “where other than pecuniary benefits [were] contracted for” or where the breach “was particularly likely to result in serious emotional disturbance.”  3 Williston §1340, at 2396; 3 Farnsworth §12.17, at 895; supra, at 4–5.  Nothing in our opinion in Barnes requires us to ignore these “ ‘directly applicable’ ” contract rules in favor of the less applicable, “general” rule on which the Court relies.  Ante, at 8 (quoting Brief for Petitioner 35).  Indeed, reliance on an analogy only works when we compare things that are actually analogous.  Here, the rules that govern analogous breaches of contract tell us that emotional distress damages can be available for violations of statutes that prohibit intentional discrimination.

															V

															Finally, we might recall why we look to contract rules at all.  The contract-law analogy is a tool for answering the ultimate question whether federal funding recipients can appropriately be held liable for emotional suffering.  Cf. Barnes, 536 U. S., at 191 (Souter, J., concurring) (warning about the limitations of the contract-law analogy).  In answering that question, we must remain mindful of the need to ensure a “sensible remedial scheme that best comports with the statute.”  Gebser v. Lago Vista Independent School Dist.,

524 U.S. 274, 284 (1998).  The Court’s holding today will not help to achieve that result.

															Instead, the Court’s decision creates an anomaly.  Other antidiscrimination statutes, for which Congress has provided an express cause of action, permit recovery of compensatory damages for emotional distress.  See

42 U. S. C. §1981a(b)(3) (expressly providing for compensatory damages, including damages for “emotional pain, suffering,” and “mental anguish” under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act); Memphis Community School Dist., 477 U. S., at 307 (allowing recovery under Rev. Stat. §1979,

42 U. S. C. §1983, of compensatory damages for “ ‘personal humiliation, and mental anguish and suffering’ ”).  Employees who suffer discrimination at the hands of their employers can recover damages for emotional suffering, as can individuals who suffer discrimination at the hands of state officials.  But, until Congress acts to fix this inequity, the Court’s decision today means that those same remedies will be denied to students who suffer discrimination at the hands of their teachers, patients who suffer discrimination at the hands of their doctors, and others.

															It is difficult to square the Court’s holding with the basic purposes that antidiscrimination laws seek to serve.  One such purpose, as I have said, is to vindicate “human dignity and not mere economics.”  Heart of Atlanta, 379 U. S., at 291 (Goldberg, J., concurring).  But the Court’s decision today allows victims of discrimination to recover damages only if they can prove that they have suffered economic harm, even though the primary harm inflicted by discrimination is rarely economic.  Indeed, victims of intentional discrimination may sometimes suffer profound emotional injury without any attendant pecuniary harms.  See, e.g., Franklin, 503 U. S., at 63–64, 76.  The Court’s decision today will leave those victims with no remedy at all.

															*  *  *

															For all of these reasons, I respectfully dissent.
													
