::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-053
::decision_cite:: 20-222
::decision_name::  Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. v. Arkansas Teacher Retirement System
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–222

															_________________

															GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC., et al., PETITIONERS v. ARKANSAS TEACHER RETIREMENT SYSTEM, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 21, 2021]

															

															Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Thomas and Justice Alito join, concurring in part and dissenting in part.

															I join all but Part II–B of the Court’s opinion.  There, the Court holds that the defendant, rather than the plaintiff, “bear[s] the burden of persuasion on price impact.”  Ante, at 9.  Respectfully, I disagree.

															We start from common ground.  Basic Inc. v. Levinson,

485 U.S. 224, 245–247 (1988), sought to import fraud on the market theory from economics into securities litigation.  In doing so, Basic posited two things—first, in an efficient market a company’s stock price generally reflects any public and material information about the company; second, investors generally rely on a company’s stock price as an indicator of the firm’s true value.  Ibid.  Given these economic assumptions, the Court held that securities fraud plaintiffs can presumptively meet their burden of proving reliance on an alleged misrepresentation by proving four things:  (1) the defendant’s alleged misrepresentation was publicly known; (2) it was material; (3) the stock traded in an efficient market; and (4) the plaintiff purchased the stock at the market price between the time the misrepresentation was made and the truth was revealed.  See Halliburton Co. v. Erica P. John Fund, Inc.,

573 U.S. 258, 277–278 (2014) (Halliburton II).

															The presumption of reliance not only helps a plaintiff prove one of the essential elements of a securities fraud claim.  Certain class actions require that “questions of law or fact common to class members predominate over any questions affecting only individual members.”  Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 23(b)(3).  So to the extent a court is able to presume reliance by everyone who purchased an affected stock, Basic can help avoid individualized questions that otherwise might stand in the way of proceeding with a securities fraud action on a classwide basis.  Erica P. John Fund, Inc. v. Halliburton Co.,

563 U.S. 804, 809–811 (2011) (Halliburton I).

															At the same time, Basic’s presumption of reliance has only ever been just that.  Everyone accepts that, if a defendant undermines one of the assumptions on which it rests, the presumption dissipates.  So, for example, if the defendant’s alleged misrepresentation did not actually affect the market price, there can be no ground for presuming anyone relied on that misrepresentation when purchasing the stock.  Halliburton II, 573 U. S., at 279.  Similarly, if a particular plaintiff did not care about the integrity of the market price when purchasing a stock, there is no basis for presuming that individual’s reliance.  Id., at 276.

															Before us, the only meaningful dispute concerns what burden a defendant bears when it comes to rebutting the Basic presumption.  Does the defendant carry only a burden of production, or does the defendant sometimes carry a burden of persuasion?  In my view, only a burden of production is involved.

															Start with what we have said about presumptions like Basic’s.  This Court has long recognized that a “ ‘ “presumption” properly used refers only to a device for allocating the production burden.’ ”  Texas Dept. of Community Affairs v. Burdine,

450 U.S. 248, 255, n. 8 (1981).  Throughout the law, courts have sometimes created presumptions to help plaintiffs prove their cases when direct evidence can be hard to come by.  See Basic, 485 U. S., at 245.  These presumptions operate by allowing the plaintiff to prove only certain specified “predicate fact[s]” at the outset.  St. Mary’s Honor Center v. Hicks,

509 U.S. 502, 506 (1993).  If the plaintiff does so, an inference or “presumption” arises that the plaintiff has met its burden of persuasion, at least “in the absence” of some competing “explanation.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).  At that point, the defendant bears a burden of production to present evidence that, if “taken as true,” would “permit the conclusion” that the presumption in the plaintiff ’s favor is mistaken.  Id., at 509 (emphasis deleted).  If the defendant produces such evidence, the presumption “drops from the case.”  Id., at 507 (internal quotation marks omitted).  “[T]he trier of fact” then “proceeds to decide the ultimate question.”  Id., at 511.  Throughout this whole back-and-forth process, the burden of persuasion never shifts:  The “plaintiff at all times bears the ultimate burden of persuasion” to prove all aspects of its cause of action.  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).

															The Court has explained that nearly “all presumptions” operate in this way.  Id., at 507.  The Federal Rules of Evidence confirm the point too.  Rule 301, titled “Presumptions in Civil Cases Generally,” provides that “the party against whom a presumption is directed has the burden of producing evidence to rebut the presumption,” but “the burden of persuasion . . . remains on the party who had it originally.”  Again, a burden of production may shift to the defendant, but never the burden of persuasion.

															Title VII practice offers a familiar illustration of these principles.  There, the plaintiff bears the ultimate burden of proving that his employer intentionally discriminated against him because of his race or some other unlawful factor.  See St. Mary’s Honor Center, 509 U. S., at 511.  But because direct evidence of intentional discrimination can be “elusive,” the Court has created a presumption.  See id., at 506 (internal quotation marks omitted).  If a plaintiff proves certain “predicate fact[s]”—for example, that he is black, that he was fired from a job for which he was qualified, and that the job remained open and was ultimately filled by a white person—an inference or presumption of intentional discrimination arises.  Ibid.  At that point, the defendant bears the burden of producing evidence that, if accepted as true, shows it fired the plaintiff for only legitimate business reasons.  Id., at 506–507.  Should that happen, the presumption of intentional discrimination disappears and the trier of fact must weigh the parties’ competing proof.  Id., at 510–511.  None of that means the plaintiff ’s indirect evidence of discrimination also disappears.  It simply means the trier of fact must consider any inferences arising from that indirect evidence while also considering the defendant’s evidence and any other proof the plaintiff submits.  See id., at 511.  “[A]t all times” throughout the litigation, however, the plaintiff bears the “ultimate burden of persuading the trier of fact that he has been the victim of intentional discrimination.”  Id., at 507–508 (brackets and internal quotation marks omitted).

															Since the Court first started tangling with the fraud on the market theory in Basic, it has followed these traditional rules.  Consistently, our decisions have “made clear” that Basic’s “presumption” of reliance is “just that.”  Halliburton I, 563 U. S., at 811.  Much as the Court said it created the Title VII presumption to help prove the “elusive” question of intentional discrimination, Basic said it created its presumption of reliance to relieve “an unnecessarily unrealistic evidentiary burden” on securities fraud plaintiffs.  485 U. S., at 245.  And when creating its presumption Basic expressly cited Rule 301.  Ibid.

															The process Basic outlined matches traditional understandings too.  The Court explained that a plaintiff ’s ability to prove certain “threshold facts”—about market operations and the publicity of the misstatement—gives rise to a “presumption” of reliance.  See id., at 248, and n. 27.  After such a showing, the Court continued, a defendant may then proceed to “rebut the presumption.”  Id., at 248.  Nowhere in any of this did Basic suggest the order of operations governing its presumption should differ in any way from those governing others commonly found in the law and subject to Rule 301.  Nor is there any doubt which party has the burden of persuasion on the question of reliance in securities fraud cases like ours.  From start to finish, the plaintiff has the burden to satisfy that essential element of its claim.  Basic’s presumption of reliance thus “does not shift” any burden of persuasion—that always “remains” with the plaintiff.  Fed. Rule Evid. 301; see also St. Mary’s Honor Center, 509 U. S., at 506–508.

															Consider how all this works in routine securities fraud cases.  Once a plaintiff proves the four “predicate facts” Basic specified, see supra, at 1, a presumption of reliance attaches.  At that point, the defendant bears the burden of producing evidence that, if believed, would support a finding that the plaintiff did not actually rely on its alleged misrepresentation.  As we have seen, a defendant might do so by producing evidence suggesting that its alleged misrepresentation did not have an impact on market price or that the plaintiff was indifferent to the alleged misrepresentation.  Upon such a showing, the presumption of reliance drops from the case and the trier of fact must decide the question of reliance vel non, cognizant of the fact the plaintiff bears the burden of proving reliance like any other essential elements of its claim.  Again, that does not mean the plaintiff ’s indirect proof disappears.  A court may still infer from the Basic predicates that a particular misstatement was incorporated into the stock price and that the plaintiff relied on the integrity of that price.  Both sides are free to present additional proof too.  It’s simply that a court no longer must find reliance.  See St. Mary’s Honor Center, 509 U. S., at 511.

															The Court disputes none of this.  It does not even try to defend on the merits its unusual suggestion that the defendant carries some burden of persuasion in a plaintiff ’s claim for securities fraud.  Instead, the Court contends only that precedent ties our hands.

															Primarily, the Court points to a single clause in a single sentence in Basic observing that a defendant may rebut the presumption of reliance with “[a]ny showing that severs the link between the alleged misrepresentation” and the stock price.  See ante, at 10 (quoting Basic, 485 U. S., at 248) (emphasis deleted).  The Court then splices that clause together with another clause in a preceding sentence explaining that, before Basic, lower courts had said a defendant rebuts the fraud on the market presumption by showing “that the misrepresentation in fact did not lead to a distortion of price.”  Ante, at 10 (quoting Basic, 485 U. S., at 248; emphasis deleted).

															But what does this prove?  Surely this language confirms an important and by now familiar point:  Once a defendant produces evidence that, if believed, shows that fraud on the market theory does not hold in its particular case because its alleged misrepresentation in fact failed to affect the stock price, the presumption of reliance drops away.  On the Court’s reading today, however, this language doesn’t just carry that obvious meaning.  We are told it also must mean that Basic intended to shift the “burden of persuasion” with respect to “price impact” to the defendant—at least “at class certification”—because the “mere production of some evidence relevant to price impact would rarely accomplish th[e] feat” of “in fact” “ sever[ing] the link between a misrepresentation and the price paid” for the stock.  Ante, at 10–11 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis deleted).

															That much does not follow.  Not only has this Court often said it is a mistake to parse terms in a judicial opinion with the kind of punctilious exactitude due statutory language.  See Reiter v. Sonotone Corp.,

442 U.S. 330, 341 (1979).  Even read for all they are worth, the handful of words on which the Court rests its entire holding today—a “showing” that “in fact” “sever[s] the link”—cannot begin to carry the weight the Court assigns them.  See ante, at 10 (emphasis deleted).  These terms do not even appear together in Basic:  The Court has to pluck the phrase “in fact” from one sentence and the phrase “[a] showing that severs the link” from another, and then combine them to create a new clause that appears nowhere in the U. S. Reports—a “showing” that “in fact sever[s] the link.”  Ante, at 10 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Even then, the Court’s newly handcrafted phrase does not so much as mention the terms “burden of persuasion” or “price impact.”

															The hard truth is that in the 30-plus years since Basic this Court has never (before) suggested that plaintiffs are relieved from carrying the burden of persuasion on any aspect of their own causes of action.  To the contrary, when discussing the presumption it created, Basic expressly referenced Rule 301 and invoked its normal order of operations.  And this Court has long explained that presumptions “properly used” refer only to devices “for allocating the production burden,” and not the burden of persuasion.  Burdine, 450 U. S., at 255, n. 8 (internal quotation marks omitted).  Are we really to believe that Basic—while referencing traditional understandings embodied in Rule 301 and just seven years after Burdine—secretly meant to depart from traditional and “proper” understandings about how presumptions work?  Thanks to spliced clauses found in two sentences this Court has never before read that way?  All while using words that carry another and much more natural meaning?  To state the theory is to refute it.

															If Basic doesn’t command today’s result, the Court offers a backup theory.  Separately, it insists, Halliburton II requires us to shift a burden of persuasion to the defendant.  Specifically, the Court points to the fact that Halliburton II reaffirmed Basic’s holding that a plaintiff need not show reliance “directly,” but may do so “presumptively” by carrying the burden of proving the four Basic factual predicates.  573 U. S., at 278.  A decision holding that the defendant merely bore the burden of producing evidence suggesting a lack of price impact at class certification, the Court now submits, “would be nearly indistinguishable from the regime that Halliburton II rejected.”  Ante, at 11.

															That much does not follow either.  Like Basic, Halliburton II concerned what facts a plaintiff must produce to generate a presumption of reliance.  This case is about what defendants must do to rebut that presumption.  Deciding one does not resolve the other.  To say these issues are “indistinguishable” is to miss the entire point of a presumption:  It allows the plaintiff to state a prima facie case based on inference and requires the defendant to bear the burden of producing evidence in response; once the defendant does so, the presumption has served its purpose and drops from the case.  At that point, the factfinder now has the benefit of evidence from both sides and must decide the case with reference to the plaintiff ’s burden of persuasion.  Nothing in Halliburton II suggests a departure from these principles, let alone that some burden of persuasion secretly shifts to the defendant in a plaintiff ’s claim for securities fraud.  To the contrary, that decision arose in the class certification context and expressly reaffirmed that “[t]he Basic presumption does not relieve plaintiffs of the burden of proving” they have satisfied “the predominance requirement of Rule 23(b)(3).”  573 U. S., at 276.

															The Court has no answer to any of this.  Instead, it replies only by touting the fact that two Court of Appeals decisions have read Basic and Halliburton II as it does.  Ante, at 11.  But this is a non sequitur.  The Court does not suggest that a pair of lower court opinions represents some robust judicial consensus.  Nor does the Court suggest those opinions free us from having to interpret the law for ourselves.  After all, “[o]ur duty is to follow the law as we find it, not to follow rotely whatever lower courts might once have said about it.”  BP p.l.c. v. Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, 593 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2021) (slip op., at 11–12).  The fact remains that nothing in our prior decisions has ever placed a burden of persuasion on the defendant with respect to any aspect of the plaintiff ’s case.  It is incumbent on the plaintiff to prove reliance, not the defendant to disprove it.  If a majority of the Court today really believes some novel new burden of persuasion should be placed on the defendant, it ought to say so.  Past decisions—by this Court or others—cannot be blamed for today’s result.

															Perhaps recognizing the incongruity of its conclusion, the Court goes out of its way to downplay its significance.  We’re told that “on the ground” today’s holding “is unlikely to make much difference” because “[i]n most securities-fraud class actions . . . the plaintiffs and defendants submit competing expert evidence on price impact.”  Ante, at 12.  And in cases like these, “[t]he district court’s task,” according to the Court, “is simply to assess all the evidence of price impact” and “determine whether it is more likely than not that the alleged misrepresentations had a price impact.”  Ibid.

															This is a curious disavowal.  Obviously, the Court thinks the issue important enough to spend the time and effort to rejigger the burden of persuasion.  Now, though, it says none of this matters because most cases come down to a dispute over evidence of price impact irrespective of the presumption.  The Court’s suggestion that the burden of persuasion will “rarely” make a “difference” misses the point too.  The whole reason we allocate the burden of persuasion is to resolve close cases by providing a tie breaker where the burden does make a difference.  That close cases may not be common ones is no justification for indifference about how the law resolves them.

															Respectfully, I dissent.
													
