::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-057
::decision_cite:: 20-255
::decision_name::  Mahanoy Area School District v. B. L.
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–255

															_________________

															MAHANOY AREA SCHOOL DISTRICT, PETITIONER v. B. L., a minor, by and through her father, LAWRENCE LEVY and her mother, BETTY LOU LEVY

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the third circuit

															[June 23, 2021]

															

															Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.

															A public high school student used, and transmitted to her Snapchat friends, vulgar language and gestures criticizing both the school and the school’s cheerleading team.  The student’s speech took place outside of school hours and away from the school’s campus.  In response, the school suspended the student for a year from the cheerleading team.  We must decide whether the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit correctly held that the school’s decision violated the
 
First Amendment.  Although we do not agree with the reasoning of the Third Circuit panel’s majority, we do agree with its conclusion that the school’s disciplinary action violated the
 
First Amendment.

															I

															A

															B. L. (who, together with her parents, is a respondent in this case) was a student at Mahanoy Area High School, a public school in Mahanoy City, Pennsylvania.  At the end of her freshman year, B. L. tried out for a position on the school’s varsity cheerleading squad and for right fielder on a private softball team.  She did not make the varsity cheerleading team or get her preferred softball position, but she was offered a spot on the cheerleading squad’s junior varsity team.  B. L. did not accept the coach’s decision with good grace, particularly because the squad coaches had placed an entering freshman on the varsity team.

															That weekend, B. L. and a friend visited the Cocoa Hut, a local convenience store.  There, B. L. used her smartphone to post two photos on Snapchat, a social media application that allows users to post photos and videos that disappear after a set period of time.  B. L. posted the images to her Snapchat “story,” a feature of the application that allows any person in the user’s “friend” group (B. L. had about 250 “friends”) to view the images for a 24 hour period.

															The first image B. L. posted showed B. L. and a friend with middle fingers raised; it bore the caption: “Fuck school fuck softball fuck cheer fuck everything.”  App. 20.  The second image was blank but for a caption, which read: “Love how me and [another student] get told we need a year of jv before we make varsity but tha[t] doesn’t matter to anyone else?”  The caption also contained an upside-down smiley-face emoji.  Id., at 21.

															B. L.’s Snapchat “friends” included other Mahanoy Area High School students, some of whom also belonged to the cheerleading squad.  At least one of them, using a separate cellphone, took pictures of B. L.’s posts and shared them with other members of the cheerleading squad.  One of the students who received these photos showed them to her mother (who was a cheerleading squad coach), and the images spread.  That week, several cheerleaders and other students approached the cheerleading coaches “visibly upset” about B. L.’s posts.  Id., at 83–84.  Questions about the posts persisted during an Algebra class taught by one of the two coaches.  Id., at 83.

															 After discussing the matter with the school principal, the coaches decided that because the posts used profanity in connection with a school extracurricular activity, they violated team and school rules.  As a result, the coaches suspended B. L. from the junior varsity cheerleading squad for the upcoming year.  B. L.’s subsequent apologies did not move school officials.  The school’s athletic director, principal, superintendent, and school board, all affirmed B. L.’s suspension from the team.  In response, B. L., together with her parents, filed this lawsuit in Federal District Court.

															B

															The District Court found in B. L.’s favor.  It first granted a temporary restraining order and a preliminary injunction ordering the school to reinstate B. L. to the cheerleading team.  In granting B. L.’s subsequent motion for summary judgment, the District Court found that B. L.’s Snapchats had not caused substantial disruption at the school.  Cf. Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School Dist.,

393 U.S. 503 (1969).  Consequently, the District Court declared that B. L.’s punishment violated the
 
First Amendment, and it awarded B. L. nominal damages and attorneys’ fees and ordered the school to expunge her disciplinary record.

															On appeal, a panel of the Third Circuit affirmed the District Court’s conclusion.  See 964 F.3d 170, 194 (2020).  In so doing, the majority noted that this Court had previously held in Tinker that a public high school could not constitutionally prohibit a peaceful student political demonstration consisting of “ ‘pure speech’ ” on school property during the school day.  393 U. S., at 505–506, 514.  In reaching its conclusion in Tinker, this Court emphasized that there was no evidence the student protest would “substantially interfere with the work of the school or impinge upon the rights of other students.”  Id., at 509.  But the Court also said that: “[C]onduct by [a] student, in class or out of it, which for any reason—whether it stems from time, place, or type of behavior—materially disrupts classwork or involves substantial disorder or invasion of the rights of others is . . . not immunized by the constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech.”  Id., at 513.

															Many courts have taken this statement as setting a standard—a standard that allows schools considerable freedom on campus to discipline students for conduct that the
 
First Amendment might otherwise protect.  But here, the panel majority held that this additional freedom did “not apply to off-campus speech,” which it defined as “speech that is outside school-owned, -operated, or -supervised channels and that is not reasonably interpreted as bearing the school’s imprimatur.”  964 F. 3d, at 189.  Because B. L.’s speech took place off campus, the panel concluded that the Tinker standard did not apply and the school consequently could not discipline B. L. for engaging in a form of pure speech.

															A concurring member of the panel agreed with the majority’s result but wrote that the school had not sufficiently justified disciplining B. L. because, whether the Tinker standard did or did not apply, B. L.’s speech was not substantially disruptive.

															C

															The school district filed a petition for certiorari in this Court, asking us to decide “[w]hether [Tinker], which holds that public school officials may regulate speech that would materially and substantially disrupt the work and discipline of the school, applies to student speech that occurs off campus.”  Pet. for Cert. I.  We granted the petition.

															II

															We have made clear that students do not “shed their constitutional rights to freedom of speech or expression,” even “at the school house gate.”  Tinker, 393 U. S., at 506; see also Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Assn.,

564 U.S. 786, 794 (2011) (“[M]inors are entitled to a significant measure of
 
First Amendment protection” (alteration in original; internal quotation marks omitted)).  But we have also made clear that courts must apply the
 
First Amendment “in light of the special characteristics of the school environment.”  Hazelwood School Dist. v. Kuhlmeier,

484 U.S. 260, 266 (1988) (internal quotation mark omitted). One such characteristic, which we have stressed, is the fact that schools at times stand in loco parentis, i.e., in the place of parents.  See Bethel School Dist. No. 403 v. Fraser,

478 U.S. 675, 684 (1986).

															This Court has previously outlined three specific categories of student speech that schools may regulate in certain circumstances: (1) “indecent,” “lewd,” or “vulgar” speech uttered during a school assembly on school grounds, see id., at 685; (2) speech, uttered during a class trip, that promotes “illegal drug use,” see Morse v. Frederick,

551 U.S. 393, 409 (2007); and (3) speech that others may reasonably perceive as “bear[ing] the imprimatur of the school,” such as that appearing in a school-sponsored newspaper, see Kuhlmeier, 484 U. S., at 271.

															Finally, in Tinker, we said schools have a special interest in regulating speech that “materially disrupts classwork or involves substantial disorder or invasion of the rights of others.”  393 U. S., at 513.  These special characteristics call for special leeway when schools regulate speech that occurs under its supervision.

															Unlike the Third Circuit, we do not believe the special characteristics that give schools additional license to regulate student speech always disappear when a school regulates speech that takes place off campus.  The school’s regulatory interests remain significant in some off-campus circumstances.  The parties’ briefs, and those of amici, list several types of off-campus behavior that may call for school regulation.  These include serious or severe bullying or harassment targeting particular individuals; threats aimed at teachers or other students; the failure to follow rules concerning lessons, the writing of papers, the use of computers, or participation in other online school activities; and breaches of school security devices, including material maintained within school computers.

															Even B. L. herself and the amici supporting her would redefine the Third Circuit’s off-campus/on-campus distinction, treating as on campus: all times when the school is responsible for the student; the school’s immediate surroundings; travel en route to and from the school; all speech taking place over school laptops or on a school’s website; speech taking place during remote learning; activities taken for school credit; and communications to school e-mail accounts or phones.  Brief for Respondents 36–37.  And it may be that speech related to extracurricular activities, such as team sports, would also receive special treatment under B. L.’s proposed rule.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 71, 85.

															We are uncertain as to the length or content of any such list of appropriate exceptions or carveouts to the Third Circuit majority’s rule.  That rule, basically, if not entirely, would deny the off-campus applicability of Tinker’s highly general statement about the nature of a school’s special interests.  Particularly given the advent of computer-based learning, we hesitate to determine precisely which of many school-related off-campus activities belong on such a list.  Neither do we now know how such a list might vary, depending upon a student’s age, the nature of the school’s off-campus activity, or the impact upon the school itself.  Thus, we do not now set forth a broad, highly general
 
First Amendment rule stating just what counts as “off campus” speech and whether or how ordinary
 
First Amendment standards must give way off campus to a school’s special need to prevent, e.g., substantial disruption of learning-related activities or the protection of those who make up a school community.

															We can, however, mention three features of off-campus speech that often, even if not always, distinguish schools’ efforts to regulate that speech from their efforts to regulate on-campus speech.  Those features diminish the strength of the unique educational characteristics that might call for special
 
First Amendment leeway.

															First, a school, in relation to off-campus speech, will rarely stand in loco parentis.  The doctrine of in loco parentis treats school administrators as standing in the place of students’ parents under circumstances where the children’s actual parents cannot protect, guide, and discipline them.  Geographically speaking, off-campus speech will normally fall within the zone of parental, rather than school-related, responsibility.

															Second, from the student speaker’s perspective, regulations of off-campus speech, when coupled with regulations of on-campus speech, include all the speech a student utters during the full 24-hour day.  That means courts must be more skeptical of a school’s efforts to regulate off-campus speech, for doing so may mean the student cannot engage in that kind of speech at all.  When it comes to political or religious speech that occurs outside school or a school program or activity, the school will have a heavy burden to justify intervention.

															Third, the school itself has an interest in protecting a student’s unpopular expression, especially when the expression takes place off campus.  America’s public schools are the nurseries of democracy.  Our representative democracy only works if we protect the “marketplace of ideas.”  This free exchange facilitates an informed public opinion, which, when transmitted to lawmakers, helps produce laws that reflect the People’s will.  That protection must include the protection of unpopular ideas, for popular ideas have less need for protection.  Thus, schools have a strong interest in ensuring that future generations understand the workings in practice of the well-known aphorism, “I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.”  (Although this quote is often attributed to Voltaire, it was likely coined by an English writer, Evelyn Beatrice Hall.)

															Given the many different kinds of off-campus speech, the different potential school-related and circumstance-specific justifications, and the differing extent to which those justifications may call for
 
First Amendment leeway, we can, as a general matter, say little more than this: Taken together, these three features of much off-campus speech mean that the leeway the
 
First Amendment grants to schools in light of their special characteristics is diminished.  We leave for future cases to decide where, when, and how these features mean the speaker’s off-campus location will make the critical difference.  This case can, however, provide one example.

															III

															Consider B. L.’s speech.  Putting aside the vulgar language, the listener would hear criticism, of the team, the team’s coaches, and the school—in a word or two, criticism of the rules of a community of which B. L. forms a part.  This criticism did not involve features that would place it outside the
 
First Amendment’s ordinary protection.  B. L.’s posts, while crude, did not amount to fighting words.  See Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire,

315 U.S. 568 (1942).  And while B. L. used vulgarity, her speech was not obscene as this Court has understood that term.  See Cohen v. California,

403 U.S. 15, 19–20 (1971).  To the contrary, B. L. uttered the kind of pure speech to which, were she an adult, the
 
First Amendment would provide strong protection.  See id., at 24; cf. Snyder v. Phelps,

562 U.S. 443, 461 (2011) (
 
First Amendment protects “even hurtful speech on public issues to ensure that we do not stifle public debate”); Rankin v. McPherson,

483 U.S. 378, 387 (1987) (“The inappropriate . . . character of a statement is irrelevant to the question whether it deals with a matter of public concern”).

															Consider too when, where, and how B. L. spoke.  Her posts appeared outside of school hours from a location outside the school.  She did not identify the school in her posts or target any member of the school community with vulgar or abusive language.  B. L. also transmitted her speech through a personal cellphone, to an audience consisting of her private circle of Snapchat friends.  These features of her speech, while risking transmission to the school itself, nonetheless (for reasons we have just explained, supra, at 7–8) diminish the school’s interest in punishing B. L.’s utterance.

															But what about the school’s interest, here primarily an interest in prohibiting students from using vulgar language to criticize a school team or its coaches—at least when that criticism might well be transmitted to other students, team members, coaches, and faculty?  We can break that general interest into three parts.

															First, we consider the school’s interest in teaching good manners and consequently in punishing the use of vulgar language aimed at part of the school community.  See App. 35 (indicating that coaches removed B. L. from the cheer team because “there was profanity in [her] Snap and it was directed towards cheerleading”); see also id., at 27, 47, and n. 9, 78, 82.  The strength of this anti-vulgarity interest is weakened considerably by the fact that B. L. spoke outside the school on her own time.  See Morse, 551 U. S., at 405 (clarifying that although a school can regulate a student’s use of sexual innuendo in a speech given within the school, if the student “delivered the same speech in a public forum outside the school context, it would have been protected”); see also Fraser, 478 U. S., at 688 (Brennan, J., concurring in judgment) (noting that if the student in Fraser “had given the same speech outside of the school environment, he could not have been penalized simply because government officials considered his language to be inappropriate”).

															B. L. spoke under circumstances where the school did not stand in loco parentis.  And there is no reason to believe B. L.’s parents had delegated to school officials their own control of B. L.’s behavior at the Cocoa Hut.  Moreover, the vulgarity in B. L.’s posts encompassed a message, an expression of B. L.’s irritation with, and criticism of, the school and cheerleading communities.  Further, the school has presented no evidence of any general effort to prevent students from using vulgarity outside the classroom.  Together, these facts convince us that the school’s interest in teaching good manners is not sufficient, in this case, to overcome B. L.’s interest in free expression.

															Second, the school argues that it was trying to prevent disruption, if not within the classroom, then within the bounds of a school-sponsored extracurricular activity.  But we can find no evidence in the record of the sort of “substantial disruption” of a school activity or a threatened harm to the rights of others that might justify the school’s action.  Tinker, 393 U. S., at 514.  Rather, the record shows that discussion of the matter took, at most, 5 to 10 minutes of an Algebra class “for just a couple of days” and that some members of the cheerleading team were “upset” about the content of B. L.’s Snapchats.  App. 82–83.  But when one of B. L.’s coaches was asked directly if she had “any reason to think that this particular incident would disrupt class or school activities other than the fact that kids kept asking . . . about it,” she responded simply, “No.”  Id., at 84.  As we said in Tinker, “for the State in the person of school officials to justify prohibition of a particular expression of opinion, it must be able to show that its action was caused by something more than a mere desire to avoid the discomfort and unpleasantness that always accompany an unpopular viewpoint.”  393 U. S., at 509.  The alleged disturbance here does not meet Tinker’s demanding standard.

															Third, the school presented some evidence that expresses (at least indirectly) a concern for team morale.  One of the coaches testified that the school decided to suspend B. L., not because of any specific negative impact upon a particular member of the school community, but “based on the fact that there was negativity put out there that could impact students in the school.”  App. 81.  There is little else, however, that suggests any serious decline in team morale—to the point where it could create a substantial interference in, or disruption of, the school’s efforts to maintain team cohesion.  As we have previously said, simple “undifferentiated fear or apprehension . . . is not enough to overcome the right to freedom of expression.”  Tinker, 393 U. S., at 508.

															It might be tempting to dismiss B. L.’s words as unworthy of the robust
 
First Amendment protections discussed herein.  But sometimes it is necessary to protect the superfluous in order to preserve the necessary.  See Tyson & Brother v. Banton,

273 U.S. 418, 447 (1927) (Holmes, J., dissenting).  “We cannot lose sight of the fact that, in what otherwise might seem a trifling and annoying instance of individual distasteful abuse of a privilege, these fundamental societal values are truly implicated.”  Cohen, 403 U. S., at 25.

															*  *  *

															Although we do not agree with the reasoning of the Third Circuit’s panel majority, for the reasons expressed above, resembling those of the panel’s concurring opinion, we nonetheless agree that the school violated B. L.’s
 
First Amendment rights.  The judgment of the Third Circuit is therefore affirmed.

															It is so ordered.
													
