::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-016
::decision_cite:: 20-303
::decision_name::  United States v. Vaello Madero
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–303

															_________________

															United States, PETITIONER v. Jose Luis Vaello Madero

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit

															[April 21, 2022]

															Justice Thomas, concurring.

															I join the opinion of the Court.  I write separately to address the premise that the Due Process Clause of the
 
Fifth Amendment contains an equal protection component whose substance is “precisely the same” as the Equal Protection Clause of the
 
Fourteenth Amendment.  Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld,

420 U.S. 636, 638, n. 2 (1975).  Although I have joined the Court in applying this doctrine, see Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Peña,

515 U.S. 200, 213–217 (1995), I now doubt whether it comports with the original meaning of the Constitution.  Firmer ground for prohibiting the Federal Government from discriminating on the basis of race, at least with respect to civil rights, may well be found in the
 
Fourteenth Amendment’s Citizenship Clause.

															I

															Until the middle of the 20th century, this Court consistently recognized that the
 
Fifth Amendment “contains no equal protection clause and it provides no guaranty against discriminatory legislation by Congress.”  Detroit Bank v. United States,

317 U.S. 329, 337 (1943); see also LaBelle Iron Works v. United States,

256 U.S. 377, 392 (1921).  However, the Court did maintain that the
 
Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause prohibited “such discriminatory legislation by Congress as amounts to a denial of due process,” i.e., legislation that would fail rational-basis review.  Hirabayashi v. United States,

320 U.S. 81, 100, 102 (1943).

															In Bolling v. Sharpe,

347 U.S. 497 (1954), the Court began in earnest to fold an “equal protection” guarantee into the concept of “due process.”  Decided the same day as Brown v. Board of Education,

347 U.S. 483 (1954), Bolling confronted the constitutionality of government-imposed segregation in the District of Columbia’s public schools.  Because any such segregation was attributable to Congress, see U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 17, rather than state action, the Equal Protection Clause did not apply.  Bolling instead read an equal protection principle into the
 
Fifth Amendment’s requirement that “[n]o person shall . . . be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law.”  See 347 U. S., at 498–500.

															Bolling’s locating of an equal protection guarantee in the
 
Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause raises substantial questions.  First, Bolling’s interpretation seemingly relies upon the Lochner-era theory that “unreasonable discrimination” is “a denial of due process of law.”  347 U. S., at 499 (citing Buchanan v. Warley,

245 U.S. 60 (1917)); see also 347 U. S., at 500 (“Segregation in public education is not reasonably related to any proper governmental objective” and therefore “constitutes an arbitrary deprivation of . . . liberty”); see Lochner v. New York,

198 U.S. 45 (1905).  By invoking “due process” to hold an allegedly “unreasonable” or “arbitrary” legislative classification unconstitutional, Bolling made clear that it was applying this Court’s “substantive due process” doctrine.  See N. Chapman & M. McConnell, Due Process as Separation of Powers, 121 Yale L. J. 1672, 1800 (2012) (“[W]hen the Court purports to evaluate whether a state’s interest is ‘legitimate’ or a ‘justif[ied]’ interference with a judge-made liberty, the result is no different in principle than in other modern substantive due process cases”).

															But “[t]he notion that a constitutional provision that guarantees only ‘process’ before a person is deprived of life, liberty, or property could define the substance of those rights strains credulity for even the most casual user of words.”  McDonald v. Chicago,

561 U.S. 742, 811 (2010) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).  Rather, “ ‘considerable historical evidence supports the position that “due process of law” was a separation-of-powers concept designed as a safeguard against unlicensed executive action, forbidding only deprivations not authorized by legislation or common law.’ ”  Johnson v. United States,

576 U.S. 591, 623 (2015) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (quoting D. Currie, The Constitution in the Supreme Court: The First Hundred Years 1789–1888, p. 272 (1985)); see also In re Winship,

397 U.S. 358, 378–382 (1970) (Black, J., dissenting).  And, to the extent that the Due Process Clause restrains the authority of Congress, it may, at most, prohibit Congress from authorizing the deprivation of a person’s life, liberty, or property without providing him the “customary procedures to which freemen were entitled by the old law of England.”  Pacific Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Haslip,

499 U.S. 1, 28 (1991) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment) (internal quotation marks omitted); see also Murray’s Lessee v. Hoboken Land & Improvement Co., 18 How. 272 (1856).  Either way, the
 
Fifth Amendment’s text and history provide little support for modern substantive due process doctrine.

															To be sure, some have argued that “antebellum due process theory commonly included an equality principle” that circumscribed legislative authority.  K. Lash, Enforcing the Rights of Due Process, 106 Geo. L. J. 1389, 1443 (2018).  But there is no historical consensus that this kind of substantive due process took hold in antebellum America.  See, e.g., I. Wurman, The Second Founding 28–35 (2020).  And, in any event, “the pre-constitutional and Founding-era evidence regarding the meaning of ‘due process of law’ strongly suggests the phrase most likely would have been viewed in 1791 . . . as guaranteeing either that duly enacted law would be followed or that certain requisite procedures would be observed.”  R. Williams, The One and Only Substantive Due Process Clause, 120 Yale L. J. 408, 416 (2010).  It is not clear why post-1791 developments should displace more probative preconstitutional and founding-era evidence.  See, e.g., S. Calabresi & S. Prakash, The President’s Power To Execute the Laws, 104 Yale L. J. 541, 550–551 (1994) (“[T]he Constitution’s postenactment ‘legislative’ history” is “the history that is least likely to reflect the original understanding”).

															Second, Bolling reasoned that the “liberty” protected by the Due Process Clause covers “the full range of conduct which the individual is free to pursue,” 347 U. S., at 499–500, and therefore guaranteed freedom from segregated schooling.  That understanding of “liberty” likely sweeps too broadly.  Given the relevant history, “it is hard to see how the ‘liberty’ protected by the [Due Process Clause] could be interpreted to include anything broader than freedom from physical restraint.”  Obergefell v. Hodges,

576 U.S. 644, 725 (2015) (Thomas, J., dissenting).  And even if “liberty” encompasses more than that, “[i]n the American legal tradition, liberty has long been understood as individual freedom from governmental action, not as a right to a particular government entitlement.”  Id., at 726; see also C. Green, Seven Problems With Antidiscrimination Due Process, 11 Faulkner L. Rev. 1, 32 (2019) (“Even on [a] very expansive view, ‘liberty’ is still only freedom from interference, rather than positive rights to receive benefits or participate in others’ activities”).  Consequently, if “liberty” in the Due Process Clause does not include any rights to public benefits, it is unclear how that provision can constrain the regulation of access to those benefits.

															Third, although the Bolling Court claimed that its decision “d[id] not imply that [due process and equal protection] are always interchangeable phrases,” 347 U. S., at 499, its logic led this Court to later erase any distinction between them.  We now maintain that the “equal protection obligations imposed by the Fifth and the
 
Fourteenth Amendments [are] indistinguishable.”  Adarand Constructors, Inc., 515 U. S., at 217; see also Sessions v. Morales- Santana, 582 U. S. ___, ___, n. 1 (2017) (slip op., at 2, n. 1).  But if “due process of law” fully subsumed the guarantee of equal protection, it is unclear why §1 of the
 
Fourteenth Amendment would redundantly state both requirements in consecutive Clauses.  See, e.g.,  G. Maggs, Innovation in Constitutional Law, 86 Nw. U. L. Rev. 1038, 1053 (1992) (Maggs); R. Natelson, The Constitution and the Public Trust, 52 Buffalo L. Rev. 1077, 1174, n. 432 (2004); R. Primus, Bolling Alone, 104 Colum. L. Rev. 975, 976, n. 7 (2004).

															Fourth, Bolling asserted that because the Constitution prohibits States from racially segregating public schools, “it would be unthinkable that the same Constitution would impose a lesser duty on the Federal Government.”  347 U. S., at 500.  For one, such moral judgments lie beyond the commission of the federal courts.  For another, the assertion is debatable at best.  “The Constitution contains many limitations that apply only to the states, or only to the federal government, and this Court is not free to disregard those aspects of the constitutional design.”  M. McConnell, Concurring in the Judgment, in What Brown v. Board of Education Should Have Said 166 (J. Balkin ed. 2001) (McConnell) (footnotes omitted); see also Maggs 1052.  Likewise, “the enactors of the
 
Fourteenth Amendment might have reasonably believed that [an equal protection] provision was not needed against the federal government” because it “had shown itself to be a much better protector of the rights of minorities than had the states.”  M. Rappaport, Originalism and the Colorblind Constitution, 89 Notre Dame L. Rev. 71, 90 (2013); see also J. Ely, Democracy and Distrust 33 (1980); McConnell 167; K. Roosevelt, Forget the Fundamentals: Fixing Substantive Due Process, 8 U. Pa. J. Const. L. 983, 997 (2006).

															In sum, the text and history of the
 
Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause provide limited support for reading into that provision an equal protection guarantee.

															II

															Even if the Due Process Clause has no equal protection component, the Constitution may still prohibit the Federal Government from discriminating on the basis of race, at least with respect to civil rights.  While my conclusions remain tentative, I think that the textual source of that obligation may reside in the
 
Fourteenth Amendment’s Citizenship Clause.  That Clause provides: “All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.”  Amdt. 14, §1, cl. 1.  As I sketch out briefly below, considerable historical evidence suggests that the Citizenship Clause “was adopted against a longstanding political and legal tradition that closely associated the status of ‘citizenship’ with the entitlement to legal equality.”  R. Williams, Originalism and the Other Desegregation Decision, 99 Va. L. Rev. 493, 501 (2013) (Williams); see also A. Amar, Intratextualism, 112 Harv. L. Rev. 747, 768–769 (1999).  Thus, the Citizenship Clause could provide a firmer foundation for Bolling’s result than the
 
Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause.

															A

															In the years before the
 
Fourteenth Amendment’s adoption, jurists and legislators often connected citizenship with equality.  Namely, the absence or presence of one entailed the absence or presence of the other.  See Williams 513–515 (discussing political discourse during the 1820s).  By the late 1850s, the connection was well established.  For example, even Chief Justice Taney in Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393 (1857), demonstrated this connection when discussing why, erroneously in my view, free blacks were “not intended to be included . . . under the word ‘citizens’ in the Constitution,” and therefore could “claim none of the rights and privileges which that instrument provides for and secures to citizens of the United States.”  Id., at 404.  According to Taney, free blacks were at the founding “considered as a subordinate and inferior class of beings who had been subjugated by the dominant race, and, whether emancipated or not, yet remained subject to their authority, and had no rights or privileges but such as those who held power and the Government might choose to grant them.”  Id., at 404–405.

															He reached that conclusion after surveying discriminatory state laws and finding it “hardly consistent with the respect due to these States, to suppose that they regarded at that time, as fellow-citizens and members of the sovereignty, a class of beings whom they had thus stigmatized . . . and upon whom they had impressed such deep and enduring marks of inferiority and degradation.”  Id., at 416.  Under the Comity Clause of Article IV, moreover, States could not place “citizens” of the United States “in an inferior grade.”  Id., at 423.  Because it was long assumed that blacks could be placed in such an “inferior grade,” how then could they be citizens?  For Taney, then, States’ longstanding and widespread practice of denying free blacks equal civil rights conclusively showed that blacks were not “citizens” entitled to various constitutional protections, such as the right to sue in federal court.

															Senator Stephen Douglas, defending Dred Scott a few months later in Springfield, Illinois, expressed the converse of Taney’s reasoning.  He asked his audience, “What is the object of making [Dred Scott] a citizen?” and answered, “Of course to give him the rights, privileges and immunities of a citizen, it being the great fundamental law in our Government, that under the law, citizens are equal in their rights and privileges.”  Kansas—The Mormons—Slavery, in A Political Textbook for 1860, p. 155 (H. Greeley & J. Cleveland eds. 1860).  Thus, Douglas recognized that the bestowal of citizenship ineluctably entailed equal civil rights.  Abolitionists agreed, but, unlike Taney and Douglas, reasoned that all persons—black or white—born in the United States were citizens and therefore entitled to equal civil rights.  See Williams 515–518.[1]

															After the Civil War, the Nation again confronted the citizenship status of black Americans.  Though they were no longer slaves in light of the
 
Thirteenth Amendment, the question remained whether, by virtue of their freedom from bondage, these native-born men and women were “citizens.”  Consistent with Taney’s view in Dred Scott, southern governments rejected that free blacks were citizens and consequently enacted “Black Codes” that “restricted freed slaves’ rights to make and enforce private contracts, to own and convey real and personal property, to hold certain jobs, to seek relief in court, and to participate in common life as ordinary citizens.”  J. Harrison, Reconstructing the Privileges or Immunities Clause, 101 Yale L. J. 1385, 1388 (1992).

															In response, Congress enacted the Civil Rights Act of 1866 to both repudiate Dred Scott and eradicate the Black Codes.  The 1866 Act contained a citizenship clause similar to the
 
Fourteenth Amendment’s: “[A]ll persons born in the United States and not subject to any foreign power, excluding Indians not taxed, are hereby declared to be citizens of the United States.”  Act of Apr. 9, 1866,

14Stat.
27.  The provision immediately succeeding that citizenship guarantee clarified that “such citizens, of every race and color” were entitled to

															“the same right, in every State and Territory in the United States, to make and enforce contracts, to sue, be parties, and give evidence, to inherit, purchase, lease, sell, hold, and convey real and personal property, and to full and equal benefit of all laws and proceedings for the security of person and property, as is enjoyed by white citizens, and shall be subject to like punishment, pains, and penalties, and to none other.”  Ibid.

															Fleshing out the implications of the citizenship declaration, this clause suggests that the right to be free of racial discrimination with respect to the enjoyment of certain rights is a constituent part of citizenship.

															Moreover, as Congress debated the 1866 Act, “the view that the status of citizenship conferred upon its recipients at least some minimal level of equality rights was widely shared among both supporters and opponents.”  Williams 535.  For instance, Representative Samuel Shellabarger argued that “the right of all citizens to be secured in the enjoyment of whatever privileges their citizenship does confer upon them is in its very nature equal . . . .”  Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., 1293 (1866).  Representative Henry Jarvis Raymond, meanwhile, wanted Congress to declare that free blacks were citizens, “and thus secure to them whatever rights, immunities, privileges, and powers belong as of right to all citizens of the United States.”  Id., at 1266; see also ibid. (“[T]he right of citizenship involves everything else.  Make the colored man a citizen of the United States and he has every right which you or I have as citizens of the United States . . . ”).  And after President Johnson’s veto, Representative William Lawrence, the 1866 Act’s principal House sponsor, maintained that “the very nature of citizenship” guaranteed an “equality of civil rights.”  Id., at 1836.

															The 1866 Act’s reversal of Dred Scott raised questions whether Congress had such authority under the existing Constitution.  See, e.g., K. Lash, The
 
Fourteenth Amendment and the Privileges and Immunities of American Citizenship 169 (2014).  Once incorporated into the
 
Fourteenth Amendment, the Citizenship Clause “forever closed the door on Dred Scott” and “constitutionalized the Civil Rights Act of 1866.”  Id., at 171.  When Senator Jacob Howard moved to add the Citizenship Clause, he and others characterized the Clause as largely “declaratory” of existing law, including the 1866 Act.  Cong. Globe, 39th Cong., 1st Sess., at 2890 (remarks of Sen. Howard); see also id., at 2896 (remarks of Sen. Doolittle).  Then, as Congress considered the Citizenship Clause, Republicans reiterated the same equal-citizenship principle that featured in the debates over the 1866 Act.  Senator John Conness, for instance, remarked that the 1866 Act guaranteed that all born in the United States “be regarded and treated as citizens of the United States, entitled to equal civil rights with other citizens of the United States.”  Id., at 2891; see also Williams 543–548.  And during the ratification debates, Republicans continued to publicly advocate that citizenship and equal civil rights were concomitant.  See id., at 549–554.

															B

															In the years following the
 
Fourteenth Amendment’s ratification, several Justices also appeared to endorse this understanding of the Citizenship Clause, consistent with  Reconstruction-era discourse.  In the Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall. 36 (1873), Justice Bradley’s dissent articulated the equal-citizenship principle: “Citizenship of the United States ought to be, and, according to the Constitution, is, a sure and undoubted title to equal rights in any and every State in this Union.”  Id., at 113.  “If a man be denied full equality before the law, he is denied one of the essential rights of citizenship as a citizen of the United States.”  Ibid.; see also id., at 118 (“Equality before the law is undoubtedly one of privileges and immunities of every citizen”).  Justice Field’s dissent similarly explained that the 1866 Act rested “upon the theory that citizens of the United States as such were entitled to the rights and privileges enumerated, and that to deny to any such citizen equality in these rights and privileges with others, was, to the extent of the denial, subjecting him to an involuntary servitude,” i.e., rejecting his status as a citizen.  Id., at 91–92.

															Three years after the Slaughter-House Cases, Congress enacted the Civil Rights Act of 1875, prohibiting discrimination in public accommodations.  During the congressional debates over the 1875 Act, Republicans reiterated the relationship between the status of “citizen” and entitlement to equal civil rights.  See Williams 565–570; see also C. Green, Equal Citizenship, Civil Rights, and the Constitution 164–202 (2015) (collecting examples).  In a virtually unanimous opinion, this Court held the 1875 Act unconstitutional because discrimination by public accommodations was not state action Congress could regulate under the
 
Fourteenth Amendment.  See Civil Rights Cases,

109 U.S. 3, 25–26 (1883).  The lone dissenter, Justice John Marshall Harlan, focused primarily on citizenship and echoed Republicans’ understanding of equal citizenship: “Citizenship in this country necessarily imports at least equality of civil rights among citizens of every race in the same State.  It is fundamental in American citizenship that, in respect of such rights, there shall be no discrimination by the State . . . against any citizen because of his race.”  Id., at 48.

															Only five years later, a unanimous Court in Gibson v. Mississippi,

162 U.S. 565 (1896), seemingly confirmed Harlan’s understanding of citizenship and the textual source of the equal-citizenship guarantee.  Writing for the Court, Justice Harlan declared that “the Constitution of the United States, in its present form, forbids, so far as civil and political rights are concerned, discrimination by the General Government, or by the States, against any citizen because of his race.  All citizens are equal before the law.”  Id., at 591 (emphasis added).[2]  The Court’s reference to the Constitution “in its present form” (i.e., in 1896) indicates that the Court located an equality principle applicable to both the States and “the General Government” in the
 
Fourteenth Amendment, not the Fifth.  And because the usual textual candidates—the Privileges or Immunities Clause, Due Process Clause, and Equal Protection Clause—apply only to “State[ s],” it stands to reason that Gibson understood the Citizenship Clause to forbid discrimination by the Federal Government “so far as civil . . . rights are concerned.”  Ibid.[3]

															The same year as Gibson, Justice Harlan also penned his dissent in Plessy v. Ferguson,

163 U.S. 537 (1896), in which the Court upheld a Louisiana law requiring racial segregation on train cars.  In asserting that the law was unconstitutional, Harlan did not rely on the Equal Protection Clause.  Instead, he maintained that Louisiana’s law was “inconsistent . . . with the equality of rights which pertains to citizenship, National and State.”  Id., at 555.  And Harlan’s famous declaration underscores the connection between citizenship and equality: “Our Constitution is color-blind, and neither knows nor tolerates classes among citizens.  In respect of civil rights, all citizens are equal before the law.”  Id., at 559 (emphasis added).  Given that the Equal Protection Clause speaks of “person[s],” rather than citizens, Harlan’s reasoning in Plessy suggests that citizenship itself carried with it a right to equal treatment independent of the “equal protection of the laws” guaranteed to all “person[s].”[4]

															Beyond its emphasis on equal citizenship, Justice Harlan’s Plessy dissent also specifically recognized that the Federal Government could not engage in racial discrimination.  The
 
Fourteenth Amendment, Harlan explained, “gave citizenship to all born or naturalized in the United States, and residing here,” “obliterated the race line from our systems of governments, National and State,” and “placed our free institutions upon the broad and sure foundation of the equality of all men before the law.”  Id., at 563 (emphasis added).  In short, Harlan understood that citizenship and equality went hand in hand and that equal citizenship prohibited the Federal Government, as much as the States, from discriminating with respect to civil rights.

															While the historical evidence above is by no means conclusive, it offers substantial support for the proposition that, by conferring citizenship, the Citizenship Clause guarantees citizens equal treatment by the Federal Government with respect to civil rights.[5]

															*  *  *

															Justice Harlan stated in Plessy that the
 
Fourteenth Amendment “added greatly to the dignity and glory of American citizenship.”  Id. at 555.  And the “best part of citizenship,” according to Charles Sumner, is “equality before the law.”  Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 2d Sess., 384 (1872).[6]  The Citizenship Clause’s conferral of the “dignity and glory of American citizenship” may well prohibit the Federal Government from denying citizens equality with respect to civil rights.  Rather than continue to invoke the
 
Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause to justify Bolling, in an appropriate case, we should more carefully consider whether this interpretation of the Citizenship Clause would yield a similar, and more supportable, result.
Notes
1
 To be sure, not all agreed that citizenship entailed civil equality.  Justice Curtis, dissenting in Dred Scott v. Sandford, 19 How. 393 (1857), argued that “citizenship, under the Constitution of the United States, is not dependent on the possession of any particular political or even of all civil rights.”  Id., at 583; see also United States v. Rhodes, 27 F. Cas. 785, 790 (No. 16,151) (CC Ky. 1866) (Swayne, J., for the court) (“The fact that one is a subject or citizen determines nothing as to his rights as such”); 10 Op. Atty. Gen. 382, 398 (1862) (“I can hardly comprehend the thought of the absolute incompatibility of degradation and citizenship”); 2 J. Kent, Commentaries on American Law *258, n. b (9th ed. 1858) (“If a slave born in the United States be . . . lawfully discharged from bondage,” he “becomes thenceforward a citizen” even if he remained subject to “such disabilities as the laws of the states respectively may deem it expedient to prescribe to free persons of color”). 

2
 Although Bolling v. Sharpe,

347 U.S. 497, 499 (1954), recited part of this quotation, it did not attempt to explain how Gibson’s discussion of racial equality among “citizens” implicated the
 
Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause, which applies broadly to all “person[s].” 

3
 This understanding of the Citizenship Clause likely would not render other parts of the
 
Fourteenth Amendment redundant.  First, the Citizenship Clause would not make the Equal Protection Clause redundant because the latter applies to “person[s],” while the Citizenship Clause and Privileges or Immunities Clause apply to “citizens.”  See McDonald v. Chicago,

561 U.S. 742, 850, n. 19 (2010) (Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).  Additionally, the Equal Protection Clause may guarantee equality only with respect to a subset of rights related to “protection,” while the Citizenship Clause and Privileges or Immunities Clause implicate a broader set of civil rights.  See n. 4, infra.  Second, this understanding of the Citizenship Clause also likely would not make the Privileges or Immunities Clause redundant.  In particular, there is no evidence suggesting that Republicans disputed the proposition that citizens “could [not] be deprived of rights of national citizenship by any governmental entity, whether state or federal, consistent with the
 
Fourteenth Amendment.”  R. Barnett & E. Bernick, The Original Meaning of the
 
Fourteenth Amendment 202 (2021).  “All that was constitutionally disputed among Republicans involved the status of national privileges and immunities in the states.”  Id., at 203.  Thus, the Privileges or Immunities Clause may have confirmed that States specifically could not abridge the rights of national citizenship, including whatever civil equality is guaranteed to “citizens” under the Citizenship Clause. 

4
 Justice Harlan’s decision not to rely on the Equal Protection Clause also makes some sense in light of that provision’s object—the “Protection of the Laws.”  It is possible that the Equal Protection Clause does not prohibit discriminatory legislative classifications, but, consistent with its focus on “protection,” instead only “imposes a duty on each state to protect all persons and property within its jurisdiction from violence and to enforce their rights through the court system.”  C. Green, The Original Sense of the (Equal) Protection Clause: Pre-Enactment History, 19 Geo. Mason U. Civ. Rights L. J. 1, 3 (2008); see also C. Green, The Original Sense of the (Equal) Protection Clause: Subsequent Interpretation and Application, 19 Geo. Mason U. Civ. Rights L. J. 219 (2009); J. Harrison, Reconstructing the Privileges or Immunities Clause, 101 Yale L. J. 1385, 1433–1451 (1992). 

5
 Adopting this understanding of the Citizenship Clause necessarily prompts additional questions.  For example, beyond prohibiting racial discrimination with respect to civil rights, what other forms of discrimination does the Citizenship Clause proscribe?  Is access to government benefits a “privilege” or “immunity” of citizenship—i.e., a civil right?  See, e.g., id., at 1456 (observing that government benefits supported by general taxation might have been understood by the Reconstruction generation as a privilege of citizenship).  And, most relevant to Bolling itself, is access to public education a “privilege” or “immunity” of citizenship?  See, e.g., M. McConnell, Originalism and the Desegregation Decisions, 81 Va. L. Rev. 947, 1023–1043, 1103–1105 (1995) (discussing the historical evidence). 

6
 Sumner continued: “Ceasing to be a slave the former victim has become not only a man, but a citizen, admitted alike within the pale of humanity and within the pale of citizenship.  As a man he is entitled to all the rights of man, and as a citizen he becomes a member of our common household with equality as the prevailing law. . . . Whatever he may have been, he is now the same as ourselves.  Our rights are his rights; our equality is his equality; our privileges and immunities are his great possession.”  Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 2d Sess., 385. 


