::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-016
::decision_cite:: 20-303
::decision_name::  United States v. Vaello Madero
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–303

															_________________

															United States, PETITIONER v. Jose Luis Vaello Madero

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit

															[April 21, 2022]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, dissenting.

															The Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program provides a guaranteed minimum income to certain vulnerable citizens who lack the means to support themselves.  If they meet uniform federal eligibility criteria, recipients are entitled to SSI regardless of their contributions, or their State’s contributions, to the United States Treasury, which funds the program.  Despite these broad eligibility criteria, today the Court holds that Congress’ decision to exclude citizen residents of Puerto Rico from this important safety-net program is consistent with the
 
Fifth Amendment’s equal protection guarantee.  I disagree.  In my view, there is no rational basis for Congress to treat needy citizens living anywhere in the United States so differently from others.  To hold otherwise, as the Court does, is irrational and antithetical to the very nature of the SSI program and the equal protection of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															Congress’ enactment of the SSI program in 1972 represented a major change in the Federal Government’s relationship with States and Territories in assisting low-income individuals.  Prior to 1972, means-based assistance for people over the age of 64, blind people, or those with disabilities came in the form of programs administered and funded by States and supplemented with matching federal funds.  See S. Rep. No. 92–1230, pp. 383–384.  One of those programs was known as Aid to the Aged, Blind, and Disabled (AABD).  Under AABD, the States and Territories set their own income and asset limits for individual participation and determined their own benefit amounts.  See Brief for Public Benefits Scholars as Amici Curiae 27.  The Federal Government paid 75% of the benefits and 50% of the administrative costs, subject to a statutory cap on total expenditures.  See Congressional Research Service, W. Morton, Cash Assistance for the Aged, Blind, and Disabled in Puerto Rico 12 (2016).

															To provide a uniform, guaranteed minimum income for the neediest adults, Congress established the SSI program in 1972.  In creating the SSI program, Congress “displaced the States.”  Schweiker v. Gray Panthers,

453 U.S. 34, 38 (1981).  Rather than dispensing money through block grants to the States, SSI provides monthly cash benefits directly to qualifying low-income individuals who are over 65 years old, blind, or disabled.  The Federal Government sets uniform qualifications for eligibility and fully funds the program through mandatory appropriations from the general fund of the United States Treasury.  See

42 U. S. C. §1381 et seq.  Unlike AABD benefits, SSI benefits do not vary based on the specific State or Territory that a beneficiary is located in, as long as the beneficiary is otherwise eligible.[1]  In sum, SSI created a fully nationalized assistance program with federal administration, federal determination of eligibility, and financed entirely from federal funds.

															When Congress created SSI, it made the program available only to “resident[s] of the United States,” and it defined United States as including “the 50 States and the District of Columbia.”  42 U. S. C. §§1382c(a)(1)(B)(i), (e).  Congress later extended the SSI program to residents of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

90Stat.
263, note following

48 U. S. C. §1801.

															Although Puerto Rico is not a State, it has been part of the United States for well over a century, and people born in Puerto Rico are U. S. citizens.[2]  In other contexts, Congress has made clear that references to the “United States” include Puerto Rico.  See, e.g.,

52 U. S. C. §20310(8).  In this context, however, Congress did not extend the SSI program to Puerto Rico and other Territories.  Instead, Congress left in place the AABD program.  See notes following 42 U. S. C. §§1381–1385.

															Congress’ decision not to include Puerto Rico in the SSI program has a significant impact on U. S. citizens in Puerto Rico.  In 2021, 34,224 residents of Puerto Rico were enrolled in the AABD program; by contrast, in 2011, the Government Accountability Office estimates that over 300,000 Puerto Rico residents would have qualified for SSI.  Brief for Hon. Jenniffer A. Gonzalez Colon, Resident Commissioner for Puerto Rico, as Amicus Curiae 28, 34.  The 34,224 Puerto Rico residents enrolled in AABD in 2021 received an average of $82 per month, compared to the $574 per month that the average SSI recipient received in Fiscal Year 2020.  Id., at 29, 33.  In other words, significantly fewer Puerto Rico residents are eligible for AABD than would be eligible for SSI, and the benefits they receive under AABD are hardly comparable to those they would likely receive under SSI.

															II

															Jose Luis Vaello Madero is a U. S. citizen who was born in Puerto Rico in 1954.  In 1985, he moved to New York, and in 2012, while still living in New York, he began receiving SSI after suffering from a serious illness.  Approximately one year later, Vaello Madero moved back to Puerto Rico.  Vaello Madero continued to receive monthly SSI payments of between $733 and $808 via direct deposit after he returned to Puerto Rico.

															In June 2016, Vaello Madero, approaching his 62d birthday, went to a Social Security Administration office in Puerto Rico to apply for Title II Social Security benefits.  As a result, the Social Security Administration learned that Vaello Madero had moved from New York to Puerto Rico, and within two months, the Administration reduced his SSI benefits to $0, retroactively effective to August 2013.  By letter, the Administration notified Vaello Madero that he was “outside of the United States” while he was living in Puerto Rico.  App. 39, 45.

															In 2017, the United States filed suit against Vaello Madero to recover the $28,081 (plus interest, costs, and attorney’s fees) that it calculated Vaello Madero had illegally cashed while he resided in Puerto Rico.  As an affirmative defense to the suit, Vaello Madero claimed that excluding U. S. citizens who reside in Puerto Rico from the SSI program violated the equal protection guarantee of the
 
Fifth Amendment.[3]  The United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico agreed, granting summary judgment to Vaello Madero.

															The Court of Appeals unanimously affirmed.  See 956 F.3d 12 (CA1 2020).  The court agreed that rational-basis review applied to Vaello Madero’s equal protection claim.  It found no rational basis to exclude “individuals who meet all the eligibility criteria for SSI except for their residency in Puerto Rico.”  Id., at 18. The court rejected the United States’ argument that the tax status of Puerto Rico provided a rational basis for the challenged classification, explaining that SSI recipients are, by definition, low-income individuals who cannot afford to pay taxes.  Id., at 27.  The Court of Appeals also observed that SSI is a “national program” that is operated and administered uniformly, without regard to State of residence.  Id., at 25.  The court therefore declared invalid the “exclusion of Puerto Rico residents from SSI coverage.”  Id., at 32.

															The United States petitioned this Court for a writ of certiorari, which we granted.  592 U. S. ___ (2021).

															III

															In general, the Equal Protection Clause guarantees that the Government will treat similarly situated individuals in a similar manner.  Equal protection does not foreclose the Government’s ability to classify persons or draw lines when creating and applying laws, but it does guarantee that the Government cannot base those classifications upon impermissible criteria or use them arbitrarily to burden a particular group of individuals.  Where a law treats differently two different groups of people that are not members of a suspect or quasi-suspect classification, and the classification does not implicate a fundamental right, the law will survive an equal protection challenge if it is “rationally related to a legitimate governmental interest.”  Department of Agriculture v. Moreno,

413 U.S. 528, 533 (1973).

															Rational-basis review is a deferential standard, but it is not “toothless.”  Mathews v. Lucas,

427 U.S. 495, 510 (1976).  Even neutral classifications must “rationally advanc[e] a reasonable and identifiable governmental objective.”  Schweiker v. Wilson,

450 U.S. 221, 235 (1981).  When the relationship between a statutory classification and its goal is “so attenuated as to render the distinction arbitrary or irrational,” that distinction violates equal protection.  Nordlinger v. Hahn,

505 U.S. 1, 11 (1992).

															Congress’ decision to exclude millions of U. S. citizens who reside in Puerto Rico from the SSI program fails even this deferential test.[4]

															A

															The United States contends, and the Court accepts, that Puerto Rico’s “tax status” provides a rational basis for excluding citizens who reside in Puerto Rico from the SSI program.  See ante, at 5 (emphasis deleted).  As the United States argues, “Congress could rationally conclude that a jurisdiction that makes a reduced contribution to the federal treasury should receive a reduced share of the benefits funded by that treasury.”  Brief for United States 17–18.

															The Court holds that our prior decisions in Califano v. Torres,

435 U.S. 1 (1978) (per curiam), and Harris v. Rosario,

446 U.S. 651 (1980) (per curiam), require acceptance of this rationale.  Ante, at 4–5.  It is true that both Califano and Harris relied on Puerto Rico’s tax status to justify the unequal treatment of its residents.  See Califano, 435 U. S., at 5, n. 7; Harris, 446 U. S., at 652.  Neither case, however, stood for the principle that Puerto Rico’s tax status could justify any and all unequal treatment of its residents, and neither addressed the claims at issue here.  Califano resolved a claim under the right to travel, while Harris decided a challenge to the unequal distribution of block grants to the States and Puerto Rico under a separate benefits program.  Those cases do not preclude an equal protection challenge to a uniform, federalized, direct-to-individual poverty reduction program like SSI.  Moreover, as summary dispositions, Califano and Harris are not “of the same precedential value as would be an opinion of this Court treating the question on the merits.”  Edelman v. Jordan,

415 U.S. 651, 671 (1974).  And both Califano and Harris rested on the mistaken premise that residents of Puerto Rico do not contribute at all to the Federal Treasury.  Califano, 435 U. S., at 5, n. 7; Harris, 446 U. S., at 652.  Here, the United States concedes that “residents of Puerto Rico make some contributions to the federal treasury.”  Brief for United States 19 (emphasis deleted).

															Moreover, the Court overlooks the fact that SSI establishes a direct relationship between the recipient and the Federal Government.  The Federal Government develops uniform eligibility criteria, recipients apply for assistance directly to the Federal Government, and the Federal Government disperses funds directly and uniformly to recipients without regard to where they reside.  Indeed, when it created SSI, Congress replaced existing programs that differed between States as well as between States and Territories and that involved States and Territories in administering the programs.  Under the current system, the jurisdiction in which an SSI recipient resides has no bearing at all on the purposes or requirements of the SSI program.  For this reason alone, it is irrational to tie an individual’s entitlement to SSI to that individual’s place of residency.

															While it is true that residents of Puerto Rico typically are exempt from paying some federal taxes,[5] that distinction does not create a rational basis to distinguish between them and other SSI recipients.  By definition, SSI recipients pay few if any taxes at all, as the First Circuit correctly recognized below: “[B]y its very terms, only low-income individuals lacking in monetary resources are eligible” for SSI.  956 F. 3d, at 27.  In fact, to qualify for SSI, recipients must have an income well below the standard deduction for single tax filers.  Ibid.  It is “antithetical to the entire premise of the program” to hold that Congress can exclude citizens who can scarcely afford to pay any taxes at all on the basis that they do not pay enough taxes.  Ibid.

															In some cases, it might be “reasonable for Congress to take account of the general balance of benefits to and burdens on” citizens when deciding eligibility for benefits.  Ante, at 5.  That is not a rational basis for this classification, however, because SSI is a means-tested program of last resort for the poorest Americans who lack the means even to pay taxes.  Residents of Puerto Rico who would be eligible for SSI are like SSI recipients in every material respect: They are needy U. S. citizens living in the United States.

															B

															The Court cautions that holding this classification unconstitutional would “usher in potentially far-reaching consequences,” such as requiring the extension of other federal programs to citizens who reside in all Territories.  Ante, at 5.  It bears noting that tax status did not preclude Congress’ extension of SSI to the Northern Mariana Islands, undermining that justification as a rational basis to distinguish Puerto Rico from the States.  In any event, the Court identifies no federal program other than SSI that operates in such a uniform, nationalized, and direct manner.  For instance, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program is administered by local governments.  See Brief for Public Benefits Scholars as Amici Curiae 8–9.  That distinction alone may justify differential treatment by jurisdiction of residence.

															In fact, it is the Court’s holding that might have dramatic repercussions.  If Congress can exclude citizens from safety-net programs on the ground that they reside in jurisdictions that do not pay sufficient taxes, Congress could exclude needy residents of Vermont, Wyoming, South Dakota, North Dakota, Montana, and Alaska from benefits programs on the basis that residents of those States pay less into the Federal Treasury than residents of other States.[6]  Congress has never enacted a uniform, nationalized direct assistance program, and then excluded entire States on the basis that the taxpaying residents of that State do not pay sufficient federal taxes.  The Court’s holding today suggests that doing so would be constitutional and not a violation of the Constitution’s promise of equal protection of citizens.

															*  *  *

															SSI is designed to support the neediest citizens.  As a program of last resort, it is aimed at preventing the most severe poverty.  In view of that core purpose, denying benefits to hundreds of thousands of eligible Puerto Rico residents because they do not pay enough in taxes is utterly irrational.

															Congress’ decision to deny to the U. S. citizens of Puerto Rico a social safety net that it provides to almost all other U. S. citizens is especially cruel given those citizens’ dire need for aid.  Puerto Rico has a disproportionately large population of seniors and people with disabilities.  See Brief for AARP et al. as Amici Curiae 8–10.  The Census Bureau estimated that in 2019, 43.5% of residents of Puerto Rican residents lived below the poverty line—more than triple the national percentage of 12.3%.  See C. Benson, American Community Survey Briefs, Poverty: 2018 and 2019, p. 5 (Sept. 2020), https://www.census.gov/content/dam/Census/ library/publications/2020/acs/acsbr20-04.pdf.

															Equal treatment of citizens should not be left to the vagaries of the political process.  Because residents of Puerto Rico do not have voting representation in Congress, they cannot rely on their elected representatives to remedy the punishing disparities suffered by citizen residents of Puerto Rico under Congress’ unequal treatment.

															The Constitution permits Congress to “make all needful Rules and Regulations” respecting the Territories.  Art. IV, §3, cl. 2.  That constitutional command does not permit Congress to ignore the equally weighty constitutional command that it treat United States citizens equally.  I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 The amount of benefits SSI pays to eligible recipients can vary, depending, for instance, on whether the recipient has an “eligible spouse.”

42 U. S. C. §1382(b). 

2
 By the 1898 Treaty of Paris, Spain “cede[d] to the United States the Island of Porto Rico.”  Treaty of Paris, Art. 2, Dec. 10, 1898,

30Stat.
1755.  Through the Jones Act of 1917, anyone born in Puerto Rico on or after April 11, 1899, became a United States citizen.  Organic Act of Puerto Rico, §5,

39Stat.
953. 

3
 The
 
Fifth Amendment’s Due Process Clause prohibits the Government from denying a person the equal protection of laws.  See Bolling v. Sharpe,

347 U.S. 497, 499 (1954).  “ ‘Equal protection analysis in the
 
Fifth Amendment area is the same as that under the
 
Fourteenth Amendment.’ ”  Adarand Constructors, Inc. v. Peña,

515 U.S. 200, 224 (1995) (quoting Buckley v. Valeo,

424 U.S. 1, 93 (1976) (per curiam)). 

4
 Because I would hold that this classification does not survive rational basis, I do not consider whether the differential treatment of citizens who reside in Puerto Rico requires a heightened standard of review, as the District Court held.  See 356 F. Supp. 3d 208, 214–215 (PR 2019).  In addition, because the Government disclaims any reliance on the Insular Cases, Tr. of Oral Arg. 8–9, I do not address those cases in my analysis.  I do agree, however, with Justice Gorsuch’s view that it “is past time to acknowledge the gravity” of the error of the Insular Cases.  Ante, at 1 (concurring opinion).  Those cases were premised on beliefs both odious and wrong, and I share the concurrence’s “hope [that] the Court will soon recognize that the Constitution’s application should never depend on the government’s concession or the misguided framework of the Insular Cases.”  Ante, at 9. 

5
 Both the District Court and the Court of Appeals below recognized that citizens who reside in Puerto Rico pay several of the same types of federal taxes as citizens who reside in a State.  See 356 F. Supp. 3d, at 215, n. 9; 956 F.3d 12, 24–26 (CA1 2020).  The Court of Appeals explained that each year from 1998 to 2006 (when an economic recession set in), residents of Puerto Rico contributed in aggregate over $4 billion to the Federal Treasury, a sum larger than the contributions by residents of Vermont, Wyoming, and several other States.  Id., at 24.  Even between 2016 and 2018, during the recession and despite several natural disasters, residents of Puerto Rico still contributed between $3 and $4 billion per year to the Treasury.  Id., at 24–25.  Those contributions came in the form of “federal income taxes by residents of Puerto Rico on income from sources outside Puerto Rico,” “the regular payment of federal income taxes by all federal employees in Puerto Rico,” and “the full Social Security, Medicare, and Unemployment Compensation taxes that are paid in the rest of the United States.”  Id., at 25 (footnote omitted). 

6
 The United States concedes that the analysis would be the same if Congress excluded residents of a State from the SSI program.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 6. 


