::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-064
::decision_cite:: 20-472
::decision_name::  HollyFrontier Cheyenne Refining, LLC v. Renewable Fuels Association
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Barrett
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–472

															_________________

															HOLLYFRONTIER CHEYENNE REFINING, LLC,
et al., PETITIONERS v. RENEWABLE FUELS ASSOCIATION,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the tenth circuit

															[June 25, 2021]

															

															Justice Barrett, with whom Justice Sotomayor
and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															When Congress amended the Clean Air Act to add
the Renewable Fuel Program (RFP), it gave small refineries a
temporary exemption from compliance. Congress then vested the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) with authority to grant
“extension[s] of the exemption” in certain instances.
The question in this case is straightforward: Does this provision
limit EPA to prolonging exemptions currently in place, or does it
enable EPA to provide exemptions to refineries that lack them? The
statute’s text and structure direct a clear answer: EPA
cannot “extend” an exemption that a refinery no longer
has. Because the Court’s contrary conclusion caters to an
outlier meaning of “extend” and clashes with statutory
structure, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															Refineries regulated by the RFP come in all
shapes and sizes—ranging from those run by Fortune-500
companies like HollyFrontier to local outfits with less
fuel-blending capacity and access to capital. So, as the Court
notes, Congress made certain accommodations for small refineries
that might otherwise struggle to satisfy their RFP obligations.

															To start, Congress in subparagraph (A)(i) gave
all small refineries—including petitioners
(HollyFrontier)—a “[t]emporary exemption” from
the program’s renewable-fuel requirements; the exemption ran
from the RFP’s passage in 2005 until 2011. 42
U. S. C. §7545(o)(9)(A)(i). Then, in
subparagraph (A)(ii), Congress directed the Department of Energy to
conduct a study—to be completed no later than the end of
2008—to determine whether compliance with the RFP
“would impose a disproportionate economic hardship on small
refineries.” §7545(o)(9)(A)(ii)(I). If so, the
statute provides, EPA “shall extend the exemption”
initially enjoyed by all small refineries “for a period of
not less than 2 additional years.”
§7545(o)(9)(A)(ii)(II).

															Congress also provided small refineries an
avenue to petition for an “extension” of these initial
exemptions. This is the provision at the heart of this case:

															“A small refinery may at any time
petition [EPA] for an extension of the exemption under subparagraph
(A) for the reason of disproportionate economic hardship.”
§7545(o)(9)(B)(i).

															Deciding that this subparagraph uses
“extension” to mean “continuation” should
be an easy call. Following Holly-Frontier’s lead, however,
the Court forgoes the obvious answer.

															A

															HollyFrontier lays its cards on the table. It
does not dispute that when used to refer to “an increase in
the length of time,” the word “extension”
can—and commonly does—refer to something that is
prolonged without interruption. Brief for Petitioners 29. Yet,
HollyFrontier insists, the term “extension” is not
always used that way. Instead, it might sometimes
refer to a “non-continuous extension”—in other
words, an extension of something that used to exist but no longer
does. Ibid. Because there is “nothing unnatural”
about reading the term this way, HollyFrontier urges us to embrace
this interpretation. Id., at 31.

															One might think that this argument is an uphill
climb—after all, we do not usually pin an interpretation to
“the outer limits of a word’s definitional
possibilities” at the expense of its ordinary or common
meaning.[1] FCC v.
AT&T Inc., 562 U.S.
397, 407 (2011) (alterations omitted). But the Court takes
HollyFrontier’s framing and runs with it. The Court points
out that the word “extension” “can” or
“may” be used to refer to post-lapse renewals.
Ante, at 6. And because the statute thus
“commands” no “continuity requirement,”
ante, at 16, the Court concludes that Holly-Frontier’s
reading must be right—which means that EPA can provide an
“extension” of an exemption that is no longer in
effect.

															Boiled down, the Court’s position is that
HollyFrontier wins because its reading is possible. But I
would ask, as we typically do, how the term “extension”
“is most naturally read.” Florida Dept. of
Revenue v. Piccadilly Cafeterias, Inc., 554 U.S.
33, 39 (2008) (emphasis added); see also Romag
Fasteners, Inc. v. Fossil Group, Inc., 590
U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 4). The Tenth
Circuit’s answer to that question is spot on: The
“ordinary definitions of ‘extension,’ along with
common sense, dictate that the subject of an extension must be in
existence before it can be extended.” Renewable Fuels
Assn. v. EPA, 948 F.3d 1206, 1245 (2020).

															1

															In assessing the best reading of the phrase
“extension of the exemption,” the Court is of course
correct that context matters. Here, though, context cuts
respondents’ way. Subparagraph (B)(i) does not use
“extension” in a vacuum; rather, it permits EPA to
grant an “extension of the exemption under
subparagraph (A).” §7545(o)(9)(B)(i)
(emphasis added). What is being “extended,” then, is
“the exemption under subparagraph (A)”—a
discrete, time-limited period of permissible noncompliance with the
RFP. And when used in this context, the noun
“extension” means an “addition that increases the
. . . operation . . . of something,”
“a stretching out or stretching forth: a carrying
forward,” or “a part that is added to something to
enlarge or prolong it; a continuation.”[2] The verb “extend” is similarly
defined: It means “[t]o cause (something) to be or last
longer,” to “lengthen, elongate, prolong,
protract,” or “[t]o prolong in
duration.”[3]

															The Court acknowledges these definitions, yet
still parrots HollyFrontier’s point that no definition of
“extend” requires “unbroken
continuity.” Ante, at 6. But without something that
presently exists, there is nothing to “carr[y] forward”
or “prolong.” The word “extension,” then,
plainly contemplates a “continuation of the same” thing
as currently exists—in contrast to the term
“renewal,” for example, which refers to a
“restoring” or “reestablishing” of
something that used to exist. Compare Black’s Law Dictionary
622 (8th ed. 2004), with id., at 1322. Or, to put it
slightly differently, the word “extension”
“ ‘[i]mports the continuance of an existing
thing.’ ” Brief for Federal Respondent 21 (quoting
W. Anderson, A Dictionary of Law 437 (1996)).

															Common usage confirms as much. Consider a hotel
guest who decides to spend a few more days on vacation. That guest
likely would ask to “extend [her] visit.” Random House
Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary 684 (2d ed. 2001) (emphasis
deleted). Now suppose the same guest returns to the same hotel
three years later and, upon arrival, requests to
“extend” her prior stay. The hotel employee would no
doubt “scratch her head.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 26. Why?
Because it is highly unnatural to speak of “extending”
a stay that ended years before.

															Similar examples spring readily to mind. One
would not normally ask to “extend” a newspaper
subscription long after it expired. Or request, after child number
two, to “extend” the parental-leave period completed
after child number one. Or report that an athlete signed a contract
“extension” with her first team after spending several
seasons with a rival squad. These examples do not derive their
force by superimposing a “continuity requirement” on
the word “extend.” Cf. ante, at 6, 8, 9, 10, 12,
13, 16. Instead, continuity is inherent in the way that people
usually use the word “extension”—namely, to
reference something currently “in existence” such that
there is a “continuing connection with the thing to be
extended.” Brief for Federal Respondent 21. That is so,
moreover, absent any additional “modifying language”
requiring the “extension” to be
“ ‘consecutive’ ” or
“ ‘successive.’ ” Ante, at
8.

															By dismissing the need for a continuing
connection between the first period and the second, the Court
forgoes the “far more natural” reading of extend.
Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd.,
566 U.S.
560, 569 (2012). The upshot? A refinery could ask to
“extend” an exemption it had in 2010 in the year 2040,
with no need to connect the two periods. It defies ordinary usage
to deem the second exemption “an extension” of the
first, as opposed to a new, standalone exemption. HollyFrontier
recognizes as much, seeking to deflect this example as
“extreme” and “highly unlikely.” Tr. of
Oral Arg. 28. Unlikely or not, it follows logically from
HollyFrontier’s reading of
“extension”—which shows just how far this
interpretation strays from the term’s ordinary meaning.

															2

															The Court’s counterexamples do not help
its case. Take its discussion of deadline
“extensions”—as given, say, to a student who
seeks more time to complete a paper even after the due date has
passed or to a party who requests leave to file a document after
the court’s original deadline. See ante, at 6–8.
In this context, “extension” refers to “an
additional period of time given one to meet an obligation.”
Random House Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary, at 684; see
also American Heritage Dictionary, at 628 (“[a]n allowance of
extra time, as for the repayment of a debt”); Black’s
Law Dictionary, at 622 (“[a] period of additional time to
take an action, make a decision, accept an offer, or complete a
task”). Because there is nothing odd about granting an
extension even after the deadline has lapsed, the Court insists
that there is nothing odd about granting HollyFrontier an exemption
“extension” even after its initial exemption period has
expired.

															Put aside for the moment that this case does not
involve the extension of a deadline. The Court’s reasoning
still breaks down because when a deadline “extension”
is granted, there is no “lapse”: The new deadline runs
back to the old. In other words, a post-due-date extension does not
start a new period for timely action. It forgives the missed
deadline by retroactively prolonging the pre-existing period. Even
in the Court’s deadline-extension examples, then, there is
continuity.[4]

															Problems likewise plague the Court’s other
hypotheticals involving delay in “seek[ing] an
‘extension,’ ” such as the tenant who asks
to “extend” her lease after overstaying it or parties
who negotiate to “extend” a contract after it expires.
Ante, at 6. These examples confuse the time at which one may
permissibly request an extension with what is being
extended. It may be that the tenant could request an
“extension” of the year-one lease at some point after
the start of year two. But, if approved, the tenant’s lease
would still be continuous—running from year one to year
two—and the tenant would no doubt owe rent for the
intervening period. By contrast, the Court’s reading of
“extend” would capture a tenant who moves out in year
one and returns in year five. In that scenario, no one would say
that the tenant sought an “extension” of her
lease—nor would anyone expect the tenant to pay back-rent for
the intervening years.

															The Court next reaches for recent congressional
enactments—or more specifically, for their captions. The
title of two COVID–19 relief provisions, the Court notes,
purported to provide an “extension” of certain
unemployment benefits that had previously lapsed. See ante,
at 7 (quoting Pub. L. 116–260, §203, 134Stat. 1182; Pub.
L. 116–136, §2114, 134Stat. 281). I will start with the
obvious: Invoking captions from “different statute[s]
altogether,” passed in an emergency context over a decade
after the RFP, “does not have much force.” A. Scalia
& B. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 172
(2012). The argument is made weaker still by the fact that Congress
used “extension” the other way in the RFP statute
itself. See infra, at 8. And it is telling that apart from
the COVID–19 relief provisions, HollyFrontier could identify
no other instance in which Congress used “extension” in
the way that Holly-Frontier proposes.

															At the very most, the Court’s
COVID–19 examples show that “extend” does not
“always includ[e] a strict continuity
requirement.” Ante, at 8 (emphasis added). But
“[t]hat a definition is broad enough to encompass one sense
of a word does not establish that the word is ordinarily
understood in that sense.” Taniguchi, 566 U. S.,
at 568. Because respondents’ interpretation of
“extension” is “far more natural,”
id., at 569, it is the presumptive favorite—barring
compelling evidence to the contrary in the statute’s
structure. As it turns out, statutory structure favors
respondents’ reading too.

															B

															1

															Four structural features of the RFP, in
particular, cut for respondents’ interpretation and against
the Court’s.

															First, respondents’ reading of
“extension” tracks the only other use of the term in
the RFP. A nearby “[w]aiver” provision allows EPA to
issue an “order to reduce, for up to a 60-day period,”
the biomass-based diesel fuel requirements under certain
conditions. §7545(o)(7)(E)(ii). In a related provision
entitled “[e]xtensions,” Congress authorized EPA to
reduce those requirements “for up to an additional 60-day
period” based on an assessment that the conditions are
“continuing beyond” the original “60-day
period.” §7545(o)(7)(E)(iii). This provision,
like respondents’ interpretation, uses
“extension” to reference a continuation of something
that presently exists. Cf. ante, at 5 (noting that
“absent contrary evidence, this Court normally presumes
consistent usage”).

															Second, the RFP is replete with express
grants of waiver authority of the type the Court reads into
subparagraph (B)(i)’s reference to
“extension[s].” The statute’s
“general” waiver provision specifies that EPA, under
certain economic or fuel-market conditions, “may waive the
requirements” of the RFP “in whole or in part on
petition by” refineries, among other entities.
§7545(o)(7)(A). As discussed, EPA also has express
standalone waiver authority with respect to biomass-based diesel
levels. See §7545(o)(7)(E)(ii) (EPA can “issue an
order to reduce, for up to a 60-day period, the quantity of
biomass-based diesel required . . . ”).
Elsewhere, the statute authorizes EPA to “waive, in whole or
in part, the renewable fuel requirement[s]” following a
finding that compliance would have a significant adverse impact on
consumers at the outset of the program.
§7545(o)(8)(D)(i).

															Together, these nearby RFP provisions show that
Congress had an “easy way” to delegate standalone
waiver authority when it wished. Advocate Health Care
Network v. Stapleton, 581 U. S. ___, ___ (2017)
(slip op., at 8). Yet Congress “did not adopt that ready
alternative” in subparagraph (B)(i)—it instead used
“language whose most natural reading” does not
contemplate freestanding waiver authority. Ibid. See also
ante, at 8 (looking to “the absence of any parallel
. . . language” as an interpretive
“clue”).

															Third, note that when assessing petitions
for an “extension of the exemption,” EPA must consider
“the findings of the study under subparagraph
(A)(ii)”—i.e., the Department of Energy study to
be completed by 2008. See
§§7545(o)(9)(B)(i)–(ii). The Court’s
reading will require EPA to examine the 2008 study when evaluating
“extension” petitions filed decades from now—say,
in 2050—even though the refinery may have had long stretches
of compliance in the interim. If Congress intended exemption
“extension[s]”—or waivers, as the Court treats
them—to remain available for decades, why would it instruct
EPA to keep evaluating them in light of a 2008 study?
Respondents’ reading makes more sense of this instruction
because it embraces the possibility, even the likelihood, that
exemptions would not be available forever. Funneling refineries
toward compliance means that it would be surprising rather than
expected for EPA to be considering a 2008 study in 2050.

															Fourth, other provisions help ease the
burden on small refineries in times of economic hardship. To ensure
that EPA can appropriately adjust the RFP requirements it sets, the
statute requires EPA to review “the feasibility of achieving
compliance” and “impacts of ” the RFP on
regulated refineries. §§7545(o)(11)(B)–(C).
And if compliance is not feasible in a given year, the RFP allows
individual refineries to carry a compliance deficit into the next
year. See ante, at 2 (discussing
§7545(o)(5)(D)). Recall too that in cases where
compliance would work severe economic harm on a State or a region,
the general-waiver provision allows EPA to waive the requirements
in whole or in part. §7545(o)(7)(A)(i). Economic
concerns are at the center of other RFP waiver provisions as well.
See §7545(o)(7)(E)(ii) (waiver based on price of
biomass-based diesel fuel);
§§7545(o)(8)(A)–(D) (waiver based on
“significant adverse impacts on consumers,” including
impacts on “supplies and prices”). Congress’
direct concern with economic difficulties in separate provisions
further undermines HollyFrontier’s argument that Congress
must have meant to vindicate such concerns by granting EPA broad
waiver power in subparagraph (B)(i).

															2

															The Court’s structural counters are not
persuasive.

															First, the Court cites the
statute’s instruction that a small refinery can file a
subparagraph (B)(i) petition “ ‘at any
time.’ ” See ante, at 9 (quoting
§7545(o)(9)(B)(i)). This argument falls apart on close
inspection. “[A]t any time” informs when a
refinery may file an “extension” request; it cannot
change the type of request that EPA can grant. By using the phrase
“at any time,” the statute gives a small refinery with
an exemption flexibility about when to file a request to extend
that exemption for the following year.

															This reading does not leave “at any
time” without important work to do. For one, the phrase means
that refineries need not seek exemptions before EPA’s fuel
standards are due—which is November 30 in the calendar year
before the refinery must apply. §7545(o)(3)(B). This is
a “significant statutory concession.” 948 F. 3d,
at 1248. It allows (but does not require) regulated refineries to
see what their obligations will be before deciding whether to seek
an exemption; it also means that EPA may not always be able to
“ ‘compensate for the renewable-fuel shortfall
created by belated exemptions.’ ” Ibid.
(quoting American Fuel & Petrochemical Mfrs. v.
EPA, 937 F.3d 559, 571 (CADC 2019)).

															In addition, the phrase helps account for the
delayed-request scenarios the Court posits. See ante, at 7.
To see why, suppose that a refinery with an exemption in 2014
planned to ramp up its operations in 2015 and anticipated that it
would no longer need or qualify for exempt status. Then imagine
that, halfway through 2015, the refinery concluded that it would in
fact need an exemption for that year. The “at any time”
provision allows it to file for one, thereby giving refineries the
ability to adjust in the face of “market fluctuations and
changing hardship conditions.” Ante, at 9. Unlike the
Court’s interpretation, this account of “at any
time” respects the ordinary meaning of
“extension” by requiring the “exemptions”
themselves to run continuously—in the above example, from
2014 to 2015.

															Second, the Court leans on the fact that
“subparagraph (A) uses the term ‘extension’
without a continuity requirement.” Ibid. That
must be so, according to the Court, because a refinery could fall
out of small-refinery status, say, in 2010, yet still receive an
“extension of the exemption” for 2011 under
subparagraph (A)(ii).

															It is hard to know quite what to make of the
Court’s theory. It never played out in practice, as EPA
regulations meant that no small refinery lost exempt status during
the years in question. See 72 Fed. Reg. 23925 (2007); 75 Fed. Reg.
14866 (2010); see also Tr. of Oral Arg. 66–67. And the theory
was neither passed on by the court below nor discussed by
respondents here, as it appeared for the first time in a footnote
of HollyFrontier’s reply brief. Reply Brief 10, n. 6.
But in any event, the Court’s account does not seem to prove
that subparagraph (A) permits a “laps[e].” Ante,
at 10. What EPA may “extend” via subparagraph (A)(ii)
is “the exemption under clause (i)”—that is, the
initial, automatic exemption that excused all small refineries from
compliance through 2010. The “exemption under clause
(i)” thus existed in the year 2010 by virtue of statute, even
if a particular refinery was not in a position to take advantage of
it. “Extending” that exemption into 2011—should
the refinery once again qualify for small-refinery
status—would thus appear to be consistent with
respondents’ reading of the term. Regardless, any ambiguity
about the functioning of subparagraph (A) cannot save an argument
that is otherwise overwhelmed by the term’s ordinary meaning
and other aspects of the RFP’s structure.

															II

															The Court declines to “pick sides”
in the parties’ dispute over which reading of subparagraph
(B)(i) best fulfills congressional purpose. Ante, at 15. At
the same time, the Court criticizes respondents’ reading for
causing the “strange effect” of treating the least
compliant refineries most favorably. Ibid. In the
Court’s telling, extensions that function as waivers (its
view) give refineries that comply in some years a boost when they
need help. Extensions that prolong a grace period
(respondents’ view) reward refineries that never manage to
comply.

															But respondents’ argument that
subparagraph (B)(i) extensions give small refineries an initial
runway—rather than a down-the-road safety valve—is not
at all odd if, as respondents assert, Congress intended the RFP to
funnel all refineries into eventual compliance.[5] Maybe respondents’ story about the
statute’s purpose is right; maybe it is wrong. In all events,
though, it is not “strange”—in fact, the Court
deems this account just as “plausible” as any.
Ante, at 15.

															Plus, the Court’s reading of subparagraph
(B)(i) yields its own odd results: It means that EPA’s
exemption power covers only those refineries in existence at the
RFP’s outset. This makes little sense if one accepts
HollyFrontier’s account of the provision’s
“safety valve” purpose. Ibid. (internal
quotation marks omitted). If Congress’ point was to give
leeway to refineries subject to unpredictable market fluctuations
and ever-increasing compliance burdens, then it is hard to see why
the provision would distinguish between old and new refineries
facing “the same current economic outlook” in a given
year. Brief for Federal Respondent 43, n. 7.

															In the end, the parties’ dueling accounts
of purpose underscore the wisdom of sticking to the statutory text
and structure. Because, in my view, both clearly favor
respondents’ reading, I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 To be sure, in some
contexts we have asked whether a term can
“permissib[ly]” bear an asserted meaning. E.g.,
Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources
Defense Council, Inc., 467 U.S.
837, 843 (1984). The Court avoids express reliance on that
argument here.
2
 American Heritage
Dictionary 628 (4th ed. 2000); Webster’s Third New
International Dictionary 804 (2002); New Oxford American Dictionary
596 (2d ed. 2005).
3
 American Heritage
Dictionary, at 628; Webster’s Third New International
Dictionary, at 804 (capitalization deleted); 5 Oxford English
Dictionary 594 (2d ed. 1989).
4
 The hypothetical that the
Court offers to refute this critique—a teacher authorizing a
student who missed a Friday deadline to turn in a paper between 8
a.m. and 9 a.m. on Monday—gets it nowhere. It is either an
extension of the deadline to 9 a.m. on Monday, in which case it
operates like the other deadline extensions I have described, with
the teacher simply specifying when she will be present to receive
the paper. Or it is an example of something other than a deadline
extension—like the start of an entirely new window for timely
conduct—in which case it is inapposite.
5
 This funneling effect
started to play out. Although about half of all small refineries
initially received study- or petition-based extensions, fewer
refineries sought and received such extensions as time went on. By
2014, most small refineries, including petitioners, were meeting
their renewable-fuel obligations. The number of exempt refineries
later spiked—with EPA granting 35 petitions for compliance
year 2017, and 31 for 2018—when EPA came to a new view of how
to administer subparagraph (B)(i).


