::SCDB_caseID:: 2020-062
::decision_cite:: 20-440
::decision_name::  Minerva Surgical, Inc. v. Hologic, Inc.
::decision_year:: 2021
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–440

															_________________

															MINERVA SURGICAL, INC., PETITIONER v. HOLOGIC, INC., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit

															[June 29, 2021]

															

															Justice Alito, dissenting.

															We granted review in this case to decide whether the doctrine of assignor estoppel bars petitioner from challenging the validity of a patent indirectly assigned to respondents, and I do not see how we can answer that question without deciding whether Westinghouse Elec. & Mfg. Co. v. Formica Insulation Co.,

266 U.S. 342 (1924), which recognized assignor estoppel, should be overruled.  Both the majority and the principal dissent go to great lengths to avoid that question, but in my judgment, their efforts are unsuccessful.

															The majority says it has no need to invoke precedent, see ante, at 13, but without that support, the majority’s holding cannot stand.  Not one word in the patent statutes supports assignor estoppel, and the majority does not claim otherwise.  “[T]his Court [doesn’t] usually read into statutes words that aren’t there,” Romag Fasteners, Inc. v. Fossil Group, Inc., 590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 3), but that is just what the majority has done in this case.

															With so little support for its reasoning, it is more than a little surprising that the majority forswears reliance on precedent.  See ante, at 13.  Not too long ago, in Kimble v. Marvel Entertainment, LLC,

576 U.S. 446 (2015), another case involving a judicially created rule of patent law, the Court applied a “superpowered form of stare decisis.”  Id., at 458.  Yet the majority refuses to wield the nearly impregnable Kimble shield.  Instead, it adopts a text-blind method of statutory interpretation with which I cannot possibly agree.

															The Court’s evasion of stare decisis is fully matched by the principal dissent.  That opinion sees no need to address stare decisis because, in its view, Westinghouse has not been a precedent for the past 69 years.  According to the principal dissent, Westinghouse was abrogated by the Patent Act of 1952.  It reasons as follows: Westinghouse interpreted the Patent Act of 1870, post, at 1 (opinion of Barrett, J.); because that Act was superseded by the Patent Act of 1952, we must decide whether the new Act “ratified” Westinghouse, post, at 1; and in order to show that Westinghouse was ratified, the defenders of assignor estoppel must persuade us that “(1) the interpretation [adopted in Westinghouse was] so well settled that we can ‘presume Congress knew of and endorsed it’ at the time of the reenactment, and (2) the statute [was] reenacted without material change,” post, at 2–3 (quoting Jama v. Immigration and Customs Enforcement,

543 U.S. 335, 349 (2005)).

															This reasoning is unprecedented and troubling.  To start, it is quite misleading to suggest that Westinghouse was based on an interpretation of the 1870 Patent Act.  Neither of the two statutory provisions Westinghouse mentioned said anything that supported the Court’s decision, and the Court did not claim otherwise.[1]  Instead, the decision rested on different grounds.  It relied on the principle of “fair dealing,” an analogy to the doctrine of estoppel by deed (a feature of the law of real property), and perhaps most importantly, a body of lower court case law.  266 U. S., at 348–352.  If Westinghouse had been based on an interpretation of language in the 1870 Act and if the 1952 Act had changed that language, there might be a basis for finding abrogation.[2]  But that is not the situation here.

															After starting with this flawed premise, the principal dissent adopts an ill-suited standard for determining whether one of our precedents has been abrogated by Congress.  It applies a rule of interpretation that is patently designed for a different purpose, i.e., determining whether congressional reenactment of a statute should be understood as a ratification of a preexisting body of lower court case law.[3]  That was the issue in Jama, 543 U. S., at 349–352, the case the principal dissent quotes, and that is why the rule asks whether the interpretation in question is “well settled.”  That question makes sense as applied to a body of lower court cases, but what does that mean with respect to one of our precedents?  I would think that endorsement by a majority of this Court is consensus enough.  Suggesting that a rule announced in a decision of this Court can cease to be a precedent if it is not “well settled” is very strange.

															Equally strange is the question whether we can presume that Congress “knew of ” a decision of this Court interpreting a statutory provision that it reenacts.  Perhaps it is hubris, but we have often presumed that Congress is aware of our decisions.  See, e.g., Ryan v. Valencia Gonzales, 568 U.S. 57, 66 (2013) (“We normally assume that, when Congress enacts statutes, it is aware of relevant judicial precedent” (internal quotation marks omitted)).

															When we reach the final part of the principal dissent’s test for abrogating one of our precedents—whether the statute in question was “reenacted without material change”—we encounter further problems.  The adjective “material” can mean “[h]aving some logical connection with the consequential facts.”  Black’s Law Dictionary 1170 (11th ed. 2019).  Thus, the principal dissent can be read to say that a decision of this Court interpreting a statutory provision is abrogated whenever a change in the language of the statute provides some degree of support for a different interpretation.  The principal dissent cites no case in which we have set the abrogation standard so low.  And this new “material change” standard for abrogating one of our precedents is a marked departure from the standard advocated in one of the principal dissent’s chosen treatises.  See Reading Law 331 (“Legislative revision of law clearly established by judicial opinion ought to be by express language or by unavoidably implied contradiction”).[4]

															The principal dissent is forced to adopt this new, low standard because it could not otherwise muster any sort of argument for abrogation.  The principal dissent cannot identify anything in the 1952 Act that does away with the judge-made doctrine of assignor estoppel “by express language or by unavoidably implied contradiction.”  Ibid.  It cites

35 U. S. C. §282(b), which states that the invalidity of a patent is a defense “in any action involving the validity or infringement of a patent.”  See post, at 1.  But as the majority notes, the patent laws contained similar language when Westinghouse was decided.  Ante, at 10.

															The only modification made by the 1952 Act that the principal dissent claims has any logical connection with assignor estoppel is the addition of language saying that patents generally have the attributes of personal property.  See post, at 7.  That change has a bearing on whether Westinghouse should be overruled because it undermined Westinghouse’s analogy to estoppel by deed, but it is not enough to show abrogation because Westinghouse did not rely solely on that analogy.

															In sum, I do not think we can decide the question that the petition in this case presents unless we decide whether Westinghouse should be overruled.[5]  Because the majority and the principal dissent refuse to decide whether Westinghouse should be overruled, I would dismiss the writ as improvidently granted.  I therefore respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 One provision permitted the assignment of patent rights, see Westinghouse, 266 U. S., at 348–349, and the other, which authorized the granting of a patent to an assignee, was discussed in relation to the scope of the doctrine of assignor estoppel, not its existence, see id., at 352. 

2
 By the same token, if Congress had again used that particular language without change, there might be a basis for finding ratification.  See A. Scalia & B. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 322 (2012) (Reading Law) (prior-construction canon applies when a “word or phrase has been authoritatively interpreted [and] a later version of that act perpetuat[es] the wording”). 

3
 This is not to say that Congress cannot pass statutes meant to incorporate this Court’s interpretations of specific statutory language.  Compare post, at 3, n. 3.  It obviously can.  What is unusual is not the idea that Congress can ratify this Court’s decisions but instead the application of a test designed to assess the ratification of lower court decisions to assess the abrogation of a decision of this Court. 

4
 The principal dissent responds by noting that this passage in Reading Law sets out the “ ‘express language’ ” or “ ‘unavoidably implied contradiction’ ” standard as part of “an entirely different canon.”  Post, at 7, n. 4.  That is precisely the point.  The passage discusses the standard that should be used when an “authoritative judicial holding” is “cast in doubt and subjected to challenge” by changes to a statutory scheme.  Reading Law 331.  The rule applied by the principal dissent, on the other hand, is not meant to assess congressional abrogation of our precedents. 

5
 Under similar circumstances in Kimble v. Marvel Entertainment, LLC,

576 U.S. 446 (2015), every Member of this Court assessed a judge-made patent-law doctrine through the lens of stare decisis, see id., at 455–465; id., at 470–472 (Alito, J., dissenting), even though “Congress ha[d] repeatedly amended . . . the specific provision . . . on which [our earlier decision nominally] rested,” id., at 456 (majority opinion).  The principal dissent does not even cite Kimble, let alone make any effort to reconcile its novel approach with that in our most analogous precedent. 


