::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-008
::decision_cite:: 20-443
::decision_name::  United States v. Tsarnaev
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–443

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v.  DZHOKHAR A. TSARNAEV

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit

															[March 4, 2022]

															

															Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Sotomayor and Justice Kagan join except as to Part II–C, dissenting.

															During the sentencing phase of his murder trial, Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev argued that he should not receive the death penalty primarily on the ground that his older brother Tamerlan took the leading role and induced Dzhokhar’s participation in the bombings.  Dzhokhar argued that Tamerlan was a highly violent man, that Tamerlan radicalized him, and that Dzhokhar participated in the bombings because of Tamerlan’s violent influence and leadership.  In support of this argument, Dzhokhar sought to introduce evidence that Tamerlan previously committed three brutal, ideologically inspired murders in Waltham, Massachusetts.  The District Court prohibited Dzhokhar from introducing this evidence.  The Court of Appeals held that the District Court abused its discretion by doing so.  968 F.3d 24, 73 (CA1 2020).

															This Court now reverses the Court of Appeals.  In my view, the Court of Appeals acted lawfully in holding that the District Court should have allowed Dzhokhar to introduce this evidence.  See Lockett v. Ohio,

438 U.S. 586, 604 (1978) (plurality opinion) (criminal defendant charged with capital crime has constitutional right to present “any aspect of [his] character or record and any of the circumstances of the offense that the defendant proffers as a basis for a sentence less than death”); Eddings v. Oklahoma,

455 U.S. 104, 110 (1982) (adopting Lockett’s plurality rule).  Consequently, I dissent.

															I

															During the guilt phase of Dzhokhar’s trial, Dzhokhar acknowledged that he participated in the Boston Marathon bombings.  He conceded that he and his older brother Tamerlan planted bombs along the route of the Patriot’s Day Marathon and that the bombs killed or injured many innocent people.  Given Dzhokhar’s concession, his trial focused almost exclusively on sentencing, in particular whether Dzhokhar should receive the death penalty.  Dzhokhar argued in mitigation that his conduct was less serious than Tamerlan’s and that Tamerlan’s radicalizing influence was a major reason that Dzhokhar participated in the bombings.  See Sears v. Upton,

561 U.S. 945, 950 (2010) (per curiam) (older brother’s criminal record and introduction of defendant “to a life of crime” supported mitigation theory that defendant “may have desired to follow in the footsteps” of his older brother); Lockett, 438 U. S., at 608 (“defendant’s comparatively minor role in the offense” is relevant mitigating factor).

															In support of this theory, the District Court allowed Dzhokhar to argue that: (1) Dzhokhar “acted under the influence of his older brother” Tamerlan; (2) Dzhokhar “would not have committed the crimes but for [his] older brother Tamerlan”; (3) Dzhokhar “was particularly susceptible to his older brother’s influence,” “[w]hether because of Tamerlan’s age, size, aggressiveness, domineering personality, privileged status in the family, traditional authority as the eldest brother, or other reasons”; (4) Tamerlan “planned, led, and directed the Marathon bombing”; and (5) Tamerlan “became radicalized first, and then encouraged his younger brother to follow him.”  App. 614, 616 (boldface omitted).  The District Court also allowed Dzhokhar to introduce certain evidence in support of this mitigation theory.  This included evidence that Tamerlan had behaved aggressively in the past, and that Dzhokhar looked up to Tamerlan.  But the court did not allow Dzhokhar to introduce evidence of Tamerlan’s participation in the Waltham murders.

															The “Waltham murders” refers to the killing of three drug dealers in Waltham, Massachusetts.  The murders took place on September 11, 2011, the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and about a year and a half before the Boston Marathon bombings.  The evidence relating to the Waltham murders came primarily from FBI agent interviews of Ibragim Todashev, a friend of Tamerlan’s.  During the FBI interviews, Todashev (who attacked the agents and was killed midinterview) initially denied participating in the murders but later said that he and Tamerlan had committed them.

															In particular, Todashev said that it was Tamerlan’s idea to rob the drug dealers, one of whom was Tamerlan’s close friend.  Todashev said that they both went to the drug dealers’ house, threatened the drug dealers at gun point, bound them with duct tape, and searched the house for money.  Tamerlan then beat up the dealers and, in an attempt to get more money, threatened to stab them.  Todashev also said that Tamerlan insisted on killing the drug dealers (even though Todashev “ ‘begged him not to’ ”), and that Todashev, feeling like he had no “way out,” waited outside the house while Tamerlan slit their throats.  Id., at 915, 948.  Finally, Todashev said that Tamerlan called him back inside to help clean up after the drug dealers were dead and that the two left with about $40,000 of stolen money.

															The FBI relied on Todashev’s statements to obtain a search warrant for Tamerlan’s car, which agents believed was the car used to drive to and from the drug dealers’ house.  An FBI affidavit attached to the search warrant request stated that Todashev had

															“confessed that he and Tamerlan participated in the Waltham murders. He said that he and Tamerlan had agreed initially just to rob the victims, whom they knew to be drug dealers . . . . Todashev said that Tamerlan had a gun, which he brandished to enter the residence.  Tamerlan decided that they should eliminate any witnesses to the crime, and then Todashev and Tamerlan bound the victims, who were ultimately murdered.”  Id., at 998.

															Based on this and other less significant evidence, the FBI agent asserted that there was “probable cause to believe that Todashev and Tamerlan planned and carried out” the Waltham Murders.  Id., at 996.  A federal judge agreed, and issued a warrant.

															Other evidence uncovered during the FBI’s investigation of the Boston Marathon bombings also related to the Waltham murders.  Dias Kadyrbayev, a friend of Dzhokhar’s, stated that a few months before the bombings Dzhokhar learned of Tamerlan’s involvement in the Waltham murders.  Kadyrbayev said that Dzhokhar described Tamerlan’s participation in the murders as “ ‘commit[ting] jihad.’ ”  Id., at 584.  Investigators also found al Qaeda propaganda on Tamerlan’s computer that advocated stealing money from non-Muslims as a way to support jihadist principles.

															Dzhokhar was prohibited from introducing any of this evidence during the sentencing phase of his trial.  At the end of his sentencing proceeding, and without hearing any evidence about the Waltham murders, eight jurors found that Tamerlan had become radicalized before Dzhokhar and encouraged Dzhokhar to follow his example.  Id., at 616.  Three found that Tamerlan planned, led, and directed the bombings.  Id., at 614.  Three also found that Dzhokhar acted under Tamerlan’s influence, that he was particularly susceptible to Tamerlan’s influence, and that he would not have committed the bombings but for Tamerlan.  Ibid.  The jury nonetheless unanimously recommended the death penalty for Dzhokhar in respect to those counts involving the bomb that he himself—and he alone—had placed.  The District Court then sentenced Dzhokhar to death.

															Dzhokhar appealed.  As the Court explains, the Court of Appeals held that the District Court had to conduct a new sentencing proceeding for two independent reasons.  Ante, at 7.  First, the trial court had not adequately questioned potential jury members about the content of the pretrial publicity they had seen.  Second, the trial court did not permit Dzhokhar to introduce evidence about the Waltham murders during the sentencing phase of his trial.  I disagree with the Court’s decision (and I agree with the Court of Appeals) at least as to the second reason.

															II

															A

															The Federal Death Penalty Act sets forth the legal standards governing the admissibility of mitigating evidence during a capital sentencing.  See

18 U. S. C. §3591 et seq.  The statute provides an admissibility standard unique to death penalty cases.  It says that in death penalty sentencing proceedings, “information may be presented as to any matter relevant to the sentence, including any mitigating or aggravating factor.”  §3593(c).  And that is so whether that “information” is or is not admissible “under the rules governing admission of evidence at criminal trials.”  Ibid. The statute also provides that a trial court “may” exclude evidence “if its probative value is outweighed by the danger of creating unfair prejudice, confusing the issues, or misleading the jury.”  Ibid.

															As the majority points out, district courts have significant discretion in deciding how to apply and weigh the statute’s factors.  Ante, at 13–14.  But “abuse-of-discretion review is not toothless; and it is entirely proper for a reviewing court to find an abuse of discretion when important factors . . . are ‘slighted.’ ”  Gall v. United States,

552 U.S. 38, 72 (2007) (Alito, J., dissenting) (quoting United States v. Taylor,

487 U.S. 326, 337 (1988)); see also American Paper Institute, Inc. v. American Elec. Power Service Corp.,

461 U.S. 402, 413 (1983) (to decide whether action was abuse of discretion, “we must determine whether the [court] adequately considered the factors relevant” to the question); Highmark Inc. v. Allcare Health Management System, Inc.,

572 U.S. 559, 564, n. 2 (2014) (“The abuse-of-discretion standard does not preclude an appellate court’s correction of a district court’s . . . clearly erroneous assessment of the evidence” (internal quotation marks omitted)).  And here, we review for abuse of discretion in the context of “a matter so grave as the determination of whether a human life should be taken or spared.”  Gregg v. Georgia,

428 U.S. 153, 189 (1976) (joint opinion of Stewart, Powell, and Stevens, JJ.).  I therefore apply the standard with care.  Cf. id., at 187 (“When a defendant’s life is at stake, the Court has been particularly sensitive to insure that every safeguard is observed”); Zant v. Stephens,

462 U.S. 862, 885 (1983) (“[T]he severity of the [capital] sentence mandates careful scrutiny in the review of any colorable claim of error”).

															The District Court here excluded the Waltham evidence for the following four reasons:

															“[T]here simply is [1] insufficient evidence to describe what participation Tamerlan may have had in those events. . . . From my review of the evidence, . . . it is as plausible, which is not very, that Todashev was the bad guy and Tamerlan was the minor actor.  There’s just no way of telling who played what role, if they played roles.  So it simply would be [2] confusing to the jury and [3] a waste of time, I think, without very—[4] without any probative value.”  App. 650.

															I have reviewed the record keeping in mind the reasons the District Court gave: (1) no probative value; (2) insufficient evidence to corroborate Tamerlan’s role in the murders; (3) waste of time; and (4) jury confusion.  Reading the record in light of these factors, I believe that the Court of Appeals was correct that the District Court abused its discretion by excluding the Waltham evidence.  The record does not adequately support exclusion for the District Court’s stated reasons.

															Consider the factors that the District Court directly and indirectly took into account.

															1. Relevance/Probative Value

															The District Court was wrong when it described the Waltham evidence as lacking “any probative value.”  The evidence met the “threshold for relevance” applicable here.  Tennard v. Dretke,

542 U.S. 274, 285 (2004); id., at 284 (“Relevant mitigating evidence is evidence which tends logically to prove or disprove some fact or circumstance which a fact-finder could reasonably deem to have mitigating value” (internal quotation marks omitted)).  And it possessed probative value.

															The Waltham evidence tended to show that Tamerlan was involved in a brutal triple murder, possibly over Todashev’s objections, a year and a half before the bombings.  The evidence tended to show that Tamerlan committed these murders for ideological reasons.  This is true (though to a lesser degree) even if Tamerlan played a secondary, rather than the primary, role in the Waltham killings.  Evidence that Tamerlan participated in (and potentially orchestrated) one set of ideologically motivated murders in 2011 supports the claim that Tamerlan was the violent, radicalizing force behind the ideologically motivated bombings a year and a half later.

															2. Corroboration/Reliability

															The Waltham evidence was corroborated and sufficiently reliable to warrant presentation to the jury.  Dzhokhar’s friend Kadyrbayev said that Dzhokhar believed Tamerlan was involved in the Waltham killings.  Kadyrbayev also said that Dzhokhar told him that Tamerlan “had committed jihad” in Waltham.  Relatedly, Tamerlan had al Qaeda propaganda on his computer that advocated stealing money from non-Muslims as a way to support jihadist principles.  There was also evidence that a week or so after the Waltham killings, someone ran internet searches on Tamerlan’s wife’s computer for “3 men killed in Waltham,” “men kill in Waltham,” and “tamerlan tsarnaev.”  App. 590.  Tamerlan’s wife also confirmed that Tamerlan was close friends with one of the drug dealers, and there was evidence that Tamerlan did not attend that friend’s funeral, which some thought strange given their close relationship.

															Further, the Waltham evidence was sufficiently reliable for the Government to conclude (via FBI affidavit) that it helped to establish probable cause that Tamerlan committed the Waltham murders.  It was reliable enough for a federal judge to issue a search warrant for Tamerlan’s car to look for evidence of those murders.  It is of course true, as the majority points out, that the District Court was free to make an independent assessment of the reliability of the evidence.  Ante, at 17–18.  But the fact that both the Government and a federal judge found the evidence sufficiently reliable to establish probable cause that Tamerlan committed the murders strongly suggests that the District Court here abused its discretion in concluding that the same evidence was so unreliable that Dzhokhar could not use it as mitigating evidence to establish the same proposition.  Cf. Florida v. Harris,

568 U.S. 237, 243 (2013) (probable cause exists when facts “would warrant a person of reasonable caution in the belief that contraband or evidence of a crime is present” (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted; emphasis added)).

															3. Waste of Time/Need

															The Waltham evidence was not simply cumulative of other mitigation evidence.  And it was critically important to Dzhokhar’s mitigation defense.  Apart from the Waltham evidence, the evidence of Tamerlan’s aggressive nature and violent tendencies consisted of evidence showing (1) that Tamerlan physically abused his then-girlfriend (later wife); (2) that he twice became disruptive and shouted at an Imam during prayers; (3) that he poked someone in the chest during an argument; (4) that he punched a man in the street after the man said something Tamerlan did not like; (5) that Tamerlan yelled at a local butcher who was selling halal turkey for Thanksgiving; and (6) that Tamerlan was disruptive at his boxing gym.  Participation in a robbery and triple murder is much stronger evidence of Tamerlan’s violent nature than any of these incidents.  Cf. Skipper v. South Carolina,

476 U.S. 1, 8 (1986) (reversible error where excluded mitigating evidence had “greater weight” than evidence supporting same mitigating factors).

															Similarly, the evidence introduced to show Tamerlan’s influence over Dzhokhar consisted of evidence showing (1) their age difference (Tamerlan was 26 at the time of the bombings, Dzhokhar 19); (2) the fact that Dzhokhar looked up to and followed his older brother; (3) that in the brothers’ Chechen culture, Tamerlan, as the older sibling, held a position of authority and superiority vis-à-vis Dzhokhar; (4) that Tamerlan sent Dzhokhar articles containing extremist propaganda; and (5) that Tamerlan traveled to Russia in 2012 as part of an unsuccessful effort to wage “jihad.”  But the Waltham evidence showed (if the jury believed Todashev’s account) that Tamerlan had previously exerted such influence over Todashev as to make him an unwilling accomplice to a triple murder.  This is much stronger evidence of Tamerlan’s capacity to influence than any evidence that the jury heard.

															Moreover, Dzhokhar had particular need for the Waltham evidence in the context of his sentencing.  As both counsel emphasized during closing argument, the critical mitigation issue was the two brothers’ comparative responsibility.  Dzhokhar’s counsel argued, for example, that “if not for Tamerlan, this wouldn’t have happened.  Dzhokhar would never have done this but for Tamerlan.”  App. 839–840.  The prosecution similarly told the jury that “the bulk of [Dzhokhar’s] mitigation case comes down to a single proposition: ‘His brother made him do it.’ ”  Id., at 857.  The prosecution also told the jury that it should reject this proposition because Dzhokhar’s mitigation evidence merely showed that Tamerlan was “loud,” “bossy,” and “sometimes lost his temper.”  Id., at 861, 864.  Would the prosecution have made the same argument had the evidence required it to add, “and perhaps slit the throats of three people”?  Cf. Clemons v. Mississippi,

494 U.S. 738, 753 (1990) (erroneous jury instruction reversible error where “repeatedly emphasized and argued” by prosecution); Skipper, 476 U. S., at 5, n. 1 (exclusion of evidence reversible error when evidence related to issue “underscored . . . by the prosecutor’s closing argument”).

															The prosecution went on to argue that Tamerlan and Dzhokhar were “equals,” and that it was only once Dzhokhar “made the decision to become a terrorist, that Tamerlan was able to go into action.”  App. 873–874.  Would the prosecution have made that same claim in the face of evidence that Tamerlan had taken “action” a year and a half before the bombings, on the anniversary of 9/11, and that Dzhokhar characterized this action as “jihad”?  The excluded evidence went to the heart of these critical sentencing issues.

															4. Jury Confusion

															In my view, the District Court’s strongest reason for excluding the Waltham evidence, and the majority’s best argument for reversing the Court of Appeals, is that admitting the evidence might have confused the jurors by prompting a “minitrial” about what actually happened in Waltham and what role Tamerlan played.  The Federal Death Penalty Act says that a court “may” exclude relevant evidence “if its probative value is outweighed by the danger of . . . confusing the issues, or misleading the jury.”  §3593(c).  Given the trial judge’s discretionary authority to admit or exclude evidence, could the possibility of juror confusion overcome the pro-admission factors I have so far discussed?  Two reasons convince me that it could not, and that, concerns about jury confusion notwithstanding, the District Court abused its discretion by excluding the evidence.

															First, death penalty proceedings are special.  Unlike evidentiary determinations made in other contexts, a trial court’s decision to admit or exclude evidence during a capital sentencing proceeding is made against the backdrop of a capital defendant’s constitutional right to argue against the death penalty.  See Tennard, 542 U. S., at 285 (“[T]he
 
Eighth Amendment requires that the jury be able to consider and give effect to a capital defendant’s mitigating evidence” (internal quotation marks omitted)).  So, although the Federal Death Penalty Act incorporates some of the features that ordinarily guide a trial judge’s discretionary decision to admit or exclude evidence, see Fed. Rule Evid. 403, it also provides a special admissibility standard unique to the capital sentencing context.  Specifically, the statute says that “information may be presented as to any matter relevant to the sentence, including any mitigating or aggravating factor,” regardless of whether that information would be admissible under normal evidentiary rules.  §3593(c) (emphasis added).  The statute thus tips the balance in favor of admitting mitigating evidence, even if admission means increasing the length of a proceeding by inviting some “minitrials” over subsidiary issues.  Cf. McKoy v. North Carolina,

494 U.S. 433, 442 (1990) (“The Constitution requires States to allow consideration of mitigating evidence in capital cases”); see also Smith v. Texas,

543 U.S. 37, 44 (2004) (per curiam).  This weighted scale makes sense in the context of capital proceedings, in a way it would not make sense in run-of-the-mill evidentiary disputes, “[g]iven that the imposition of death . . . is so profoundly different from all other penalties.”  Lockett, 438 U. S., at 605 (plurality opinion).  Indeed, because “the penalty of death is qualitatively different from” all other punishments, “there is a corresponding difference in the need for reliability in the determination that death is the appropriate punishment in a specific case.”  Woodson v. North Carolina,

428 U.S. 280, 305 (1976) (plurality opinion).  And a jury’s decision to impose the death penalty is more reliable if it is made after considering relevant mitigation evidence that counsels against imposing such a sentence.  See Lockett, 438 U. S., at 605 (emphasizing the need in capital cases to give “independent mitigating weight to aspects of the . . . circumstances of the offense proffered in mitigation”).

															At the same time, a trial judge normally can control the presentation of evidence to avoid unwarranted detours and to ensure a trial does not extend beyond reasonable limits.  See, e.g., Fed. Rule Evid. 105 (court can instruct jury that it may consider evidence for one purpose but not another); Geders v. United States,

425 U.S. 80, 86–87 (1976) (“Within limits, the judge . . . may refuse to allow cumulative, repetitive, or irrelevant testimony, and may control the scope of examination of witnesses” (citations omitted)).  In the context of capital sentencing, then, concerns about juror “waste of time” or the risk of “confusion” are less justifiable bases on which to exclude an entire category of evidence that may have significant mitigating value.

															Second, and perhaps of greater importance, a sampling of other death penalty proceedings indicates that the prosecution often introduces evidence of a defendant’s prior criminal behavior in support of the death penalty, including evidence that poses a similar risk of jury confusion.  Trial judges admit this evidence under the same admissibility standard that governs the admission of mitigating evidence.  See §3593(c) (governing admissibility of evidence supporting “aggravating,” as well as “mitigating,” factors).  And trial courts admit this evidence not because the defendant’s past criminal behavior is directly relevant to the crime at issue but because it supports an “aggravating” death-penalty-related factor such as a defendant’s risk of future dangerousness.  If courts admit evidence of past criminal behavior, unrelated to the crime at issue, to show aggravating circumstances, why should they not do the same to show mitigating circumstances?

															Moreover, capital sentencing courts routinely admit this kind of evidence even if the past criminal behavior did not result in formal charges or convictions (and thus has not been proved to a jury or judge).  See, e.g., United States v. Gabrion, 719 F.3d 511, 518 (CA6 2013) (District Court admitted evidence of defendant’s “likely role in the disappearance (and presumably murder) of three other people”); United States v. Runyon, 707 F.3d 475, 504–505 (CA4 2013) (District Court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence of defendant’s assault charges that were later dismissed); United States v. Snarr, 704 F.3d 368, 395 (CA5 2013) (District Court admitted evidence that defendant “participated in a drive-by shooting and allegedly murdered a man”); United States v. Lighty, 616 F.3d 321, 341 (CA4 2010) (District Court admitted evidence that defendant was involved in driveby shooting for which he was never charged); United States v. Brown, 441 F.3d 1330, 1368 (CA11 2006) (District Court admitted evidence that “defendant has committed an array of other criminal acts, some but not all of which have resulted in conviction”).

															Further, trial courts admit this evidence despite claims that the evidence is not reliable (thus risking “minitrials”).  See, e.g., United States v. Coonce, 932 F.3d 623, 641 (CA8 2019); United States v. Umaña, 750 F.3d 320, 348–349 (CA4 2014); United States v. Hager, 721 F.3d 167, 201 (CA4 2013); United States v. Higgs, 353 F.3d 281, 323 (CA4 2003).

															The evidentiary showing Dzhokhar attempted to make here was not, as the majority asserts, any more complex or confusing than the evidentiary showing the Government makes in these situations.  Cf. ante, at 20.  To the contrary, just as the Government introduces evidence of a defendant’s prior unproved bad conduct to show a defendant’s dangerousness, so too did Dzhokhar seek to introduce evidence of Tamerlan’s prior unproved bad conduct to show Tamerlan’s dangerousness.  The fact that the evidence was about Tamerlan’s character instead of Dzhokhar’s did not render the evidence beyond the jury’s ability to comprehend.  The District Court implicitly recognized as much when it allowed Dzhokhar to introduce other evidence of Tamerlan’s past conduct—conduct in which Dzhokhar did not participate.

															Indeed, this Court has rejected concerns that distracting minitrials should preclude the Government from introducing evidence about a nondefendant third party to show aggravation.  See Payne v. Tennessee,

501 U.S. 808, 823 (1991) (rejecting reasoning that victim impact evidence should be excluded from sentencing proceeding because it would “creat[e] a mini-trial on the victim’s character” (internal quotation marks omitted)).  Why then should the same concern preclude a defendant from introducing similar evidence in mitigation?  After all, the Government, unlike a defendant, has no constitutional right to present evidence during a capital sentencing proceeding.  Cf. Tennard, 542 U. S., at 285 (“[T]he
 
Eighth Amendment requires that the jury be able to consider and give effect to a capital defendant’s mitigating evidence” (internal quotation marks omitted)).

															I conclude, then, that the reasons the District Court gave do not justify excluding the Waltham murder evidence, and it was an abuse of discretion to do so.  Nor was the exclusion harmless.  See §3595(c)(2)(C) (death sentence can be vacated if Government fails to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that an error was harmless).  Dzhokhar conceded his guilt.  The only issue was whether he deserved to die.  Tellingly, the jury’s nuanced verdict reflected close attention to the relationship between the brothers: The jury did not recommend the death penalty for the charges related to the actions Dzhokhar took together with Tamerlan, and only recommended death for the charges related to the actions Dzhokhar took alone.  The Waltham evidence supported Dzhokhar’s theory that Tamerlan’s violent and radicalizing influence induced all of the actions Dzhokhar took in connection with the Boston Marathon bombings.  This evidence may have led some jurors to conclude that Tamerlan’s influence was so pervasive that Dzhokhar did not deserve to die for any of the actions he took in connection with the bombings, even those taken outside of Tamerlan’s presence.  And it would have taken only one juror’s change of mind to have produced a sentence other than death, even if a severe one.  See §3593(e) (death verdict must be unanimous).

															B

															Three courts including this Court have now examined this record with care.  Why?  Why are appellate courts so deeply involved in what is, after all, a trial-based evidentiary matter?  The reason, in my view, lies in part in the nature of the underlying proceeding.  It is a death penalty proceeding.  And where death is at stake, the courts (and Congress) believe that particular judicial care is required.  See §3593 (detailing unique procedures applicable to the “[s]pecial hearing to determine whether a sentence of death is justified” (boldface omitted)); Cf. Kyles v. Whitley,

514 U.S. 419, 422 (1995) (“[O]ur duty to search for constitutional error with painstaking care is never more exacting than it is in a capital case” (internal quotation marks omitted)); Zant, 462 U. S., at 885 (“[T]he severity of the [death] sentence mandates careful scrutiny in the review of any colorable claim of error”); Gregg, 428 U. S., at 187 (joint opinion) (“When a defendant’s life is at stake, the Court has been particularly sensitive to insure that every safeguard is observed”); Glossip v. Gross,

576 U.S. 863, 937 (2015) (Breyer, J., dissenting) (“[I]t is difficult for judges, as it would be difficult for anyone, not to apply legal requirements punctiliously when the consequences of failing to do so may well be death”).  That same care applies on abuse-of-discretion review, just as it does for any other standard.  The extra time that close examination takes is part of the procedural price that a judicial system allowing the death penalty will inevitably exact.

															C

															I have written elsewhere about the problems inherent in a system that allows for the imposition of the death penalty.  See, e.g., id., at 909–938.  This case provides just one more example of some of those problems.

															III

															In my view, the Court of Appeals was correct in its Waltham evidence conclusion.  For that reason, the District Court should conduct a new sentencing proceeding.  I need not, and do not, reach the pretrial publicity question.  I note, however, that when considering that issue, the Court refers to the power of the federal appeals courts to promulgate supervisory rules.  See ante, at 11.  Like the Court (and Justice Barrett), I recognize that the Government “does not challenge the general existence of the Court of Appeals’ supervisory power.”  Ibid., n. 1.  I would add that our precedents clearly recognize the existence of such a power.  See, e.g., Thomas v. Arn,

474 U.S. 140, 146 (1985) (“It cannot be doubted that the courts of appeals have supervisory powers that permit, at the least, the promulgation of procedural rules governing the management of litigation”); United States v. Hasting,

461 U.S. 499, 505 (1983) (“[I]n the exercise of supervisory powers, federal courts may, within limits, formulate procedural rules not specifically required by the Constitution or the Congress”).  I would also add that “[o]ur review of rules adopted by the courts of appeals” pursuant to this power “is limited in scope.”  Ortega-Rodriguez v. United States,

507 U.S. 234, 244 (1993).  And I do not find that surprising.  A degree of authority for the courts of appeals, closer to the fray, to issue at least some supervisory rules facilitates the flexibility needed in our geographically dispersed multicircuit system.

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, with respect, I dissent.
													
