::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-008
::decision_cite:: 20-443
::decision_name::  United States v. Tsarnaev
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Barrett
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–443

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v. DZHOKHAR A. TSARNAEV

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the first circuit

															[March 4, 2022]

															Justice Barrett, with whom Justice Gorsuch joins, concurring.

															In this case, the First Circuit asserted “supervisory power” to impose a procedural rule on the District Court.  Because that rule (which required a district court to ask media-content questions on request in high-profile prosecutions) conflicts with our cases (which hold that a district court has broad discretion to manage jury selection), I agree with the Court that the First Circuit erred.

															I write separately to note my skepticism that the courts of appeals possess such supervisory power in the first place.  Article III’s grant of “[t]he judicial Power” imbues each federal court with the inherent authority to regulate its own proceedings.  U. S. Const., Art. III, §1; Chambers v. NASCO, Inc.,

501 U.S. 32, 43 (1991) (“It has long been understood that ‘[c]ertain implied powers must necessarily result to our Courts of justice from the nature of their institution,’ powers ‘which cannot be dispensed with in a Court, because they are necessary to the exercise of all others’ ” (quoting United States v. Hudson, 7 Cranch 32, 34 (1812))).  This authority permits federal courts to handle a range of matters, big and small, that fall in the gaps of governing statutes and formally adopted procedural rules.  See, e.g., Link v. Wabash R. Co.,

370 U.S. 626 (1962) (a district court can dismiss a case sua sponte for failure to prosecute);  Hazel-Atlas Glass Co. v. Hartford-Empire Co.,

322 U.S. 238 (1944) (a court of appeals can vacate its judgment upon discovering fraud).  But here, the First Circuit did not adopt a rule regulating its own proceedings—it adopted a blanket rule that all district courts in its jurisdiction must follow on pain of reversal.

															In fairness to the First Circuit, we have suggested that the courts of appeals possess authority to dictate procedural rules for district courts.  See, e.g., Cuyler v. Sullivan,

446 U.S. 335, 346, n. 10 (1980) (citing Courts of Appeals decisions requiring district courts to inquire into potential conflicts of interest and referring to this as “a desirable practice”); Cupp v. Naughten,

414 U.S. 141, 146 (1973) (suggesting in dicta that a court of appeals may require a district court “to follow procedures deemed desirable from the viewpoint of sound judicial practice although in nowise commanded by statute or by the Constitution”).[1]*  Understandably, then, the First Circuit followed our lead.  But before we go further down this road, we should reexamine the map.  Not only have we failed to identify a source for this supposed authority, it is unclear that any exists.

															To be sure, this Court has squarely asserted supervisory power to regulate procedure in lower federal courts.  See McNabb v. United States,

318 U.S. 332 (1943).  While we have not justified this power either, it has an at least arguable basis: the Constitution’s establishment of this Court as “supreme,” as distinct from the “inferior Courts” that Congress has discretion to create.  Art. III, §1.  Much like the grant of “[t]he judicial Power” carries with it inherent authority over local procedure, this Court’s designation as “supreme” might carry with it some inherent authority to prescribe procedural rules for inferior federal courts.  But see ante, at 11, n. 1.  In the end, this argument might be unsupported by the Constitution’s structure and history.  Still, the text of Article III makes it plausible.

															Yet whatever the status of this Court’s supervisory authority, it is difficult, if not impossible, to find any comparable constitutional hook for such power in the courts of appeals.  Nor does any statute grant them this general authority.  And while it is tempting to roll supervisory authority into the power of appellate review, the two are analytically distinct.  A court engaged in appellate review in this context determines whether a lower court exceeded its inherent authority to make a procedural choice.  A court asserting supervisory authority imposes its own procedural choice on the lower court.  In other words, supervisory authority is not necessarily a lesser included power of appellate review.

															This case does not require us to resolve whether the courts of appeals have supervisory authority over district courts.  Either way, the First Circuit erred.  At some point in the future, however, it would be worth revisiting our dicta.
Notes
1
*In dissent, Justice Breyer asserts that “our precedents clearly recognize the existence of ” the courts of appeals’ supervisory power.  Post, at 17.  But the cases cited by Justice Breyer reflect our sometimes imprecise use of the term “supervisory power.”  Rather than using the term to refer to a court of appeals’ authority to impose procedures on an inferior court, two of the cited cases use it to refer to a court’s power to “supervise” its own proceedings.  See Ortega-Rodriguez v. United States,

507 U.S. 234, 249–250 (1993) (addressing a court of appeals’ ability to dismiss an appeal of a former fugitive); Thomas v. Arn,

474 U.S. 140, 142 (1985) (a court of appeals may “establish a rule that the failure to file objections to the magistrate’s report waives the right to appeal the district court’s judgment”).  And in the third case, United States v. Hasting,

461 U.S. 499 (1983), the Court operated on the assumption that the Court of Appeals had exercised “its supervisory powers to discipline the prosecutors of its jurisdiction,” not to regulate district courts.  Id., at 505 (emphasis added).  The bottom line is that these cases do not address, much less endorse, the kind of supervisory authority that the First Circuit asserted here. 


