::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-006
::decision_cite:: 20-601
::decision_name::  Cameron v. EMW Women's Surgical Center, P. S. C.
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–601

															_________________

															DANIEL CAMERON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF KENTUCKY, PETITIONER v. EMW WOMEN’S SURGICAL CENTER, P. S. C., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[March 3, 2022]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Breyer joins, concurring in the judgment.

															I agree with the Court that the Sixth Circuit should have allowed the attorney general to intervene in this suit after another state official ceased defending the challenged Kentucky law.  And my reasons for reaching that conclusion partly overlap with the Court’s.  But I would differently frame and respond to the serious threshold issue that respondent EMW raises.  I also see no need to rely on “constitutional considerations” to resolve the intervention question before us.  Ante, at 7 (opinion of the Court).

															I

															No jurisdictional rule, the Court and I agree, directly bars the attorney general’s intervention here.  The rule EMW relies on requires a losing party to file a notice of appeal within 30 days of the entry of judgment.  See 28 U. S. C. §2107(a); Fed. Rule App. Proc. 4(a)(1)(A).  This Court has made clear that the timely-appeal rule is jurisdictional.  See, e.g., Bowles v. Russell, 551 U.S. 205, 209 (2007).  So if a party (or a non-party having an equivalent right to appeal) files an appeal on the 31st day after judgment, the appellate court lacks jurisdiction.  But here the attorney general did not file such a late appeal.  He instead moved to intervene in an appeal timely brought by Kentucky’s secretary for health (after the secretary decided to forgo en banc or Supreme Court review).  And the provisions setting out the timely-appeal rule do not address that situation.  See ante, at 5–6.

															The majority goes on to deny the existence of a “claims-processing” rule preventing the attorney general’s intervention, see ante, at 6–7, but I think that terminology misplaced and distracting.  We often consider whether timing requirements are “jurisdictional” rules or else “claims-processing” rules.  See, e.g., United States v. Kwai Fun Wong, 575 U.S. 402, 409–410 (2015).  (The question comes up because only the latter may be waived or overcome by equitable considerations; the former are absolute bars to entertaining a matter.  See ibid.) But here we know the answer to that frequent question.  As just stated, the timely-appeal rule—the only rule anyone thinks relevant—is jurisdictional.  There is not a claims-processing rule in sight.  And EMW nowhere suggests otherwise; it never asserts the existence of a claims-processing rule barring the attorney general’s motion.

															The argument EMW makes—and it is a serious one—rests on the idea that litigants should not be allowed to use intervention procedures to end-run jurisdictional rules.  Consider a hypothetical to illustrate the problem.  Suppose a party (or a non-party having a right to appeal) misses the 30day deadline to file a notice of appeal from a judgment.  On the 31st day, he regrets his negligence and attempts to intervene in another party’s appeal in the same case.  Should the appellate court allow the intervention?  Our precedent, along with common sense, suggests not—even though the timely-appeal rule, as noted above, does not address issues of intervention.  That is because permitting intervention there would effectively “vitiate[ ]” the “mandatory nature of the [appellate] time limits.”  Torres v. Oakland Scavenger Co., 487 U.S. 312, 315 (1988).  Or otherwise said, granting intervention would enable the party to circumvent those limits, by awarding him the “equivalent” of more “time for filing a notice of appeal.”  Ibid.; see Hutchinson v. Pfeil, 211 F.3d 515, 519 (CA10 2000) (“[I]ntervention is not a means to escape the consequences of noncompliance” with the jurisdictional timely-appeal rule).  That is the essence of EMW’s objection.  EMW contends that the attorney general, though a non-party, could have appealed the District Court’s judgment because it bound his office.  But the attorney general chose at the time not to appeal.  He should not now be allowed, EMW says, to sidestep the jurisdictional deadline he missed by means of intervening.  See Brief for Respondents 10, 15–16, 19–21.

															But the anti-circumvention rationale for denying intervention does not sensibly apply here because of the change in circumstances between the time to appeal and the time of the motion to intervene.  Recall that the attorney general, by agreeing early on to the dismissal of the claims against him, effectively handed off defense of the challenged law to the health secretary.  See ante, at 2.  After the District Court ruled, the secretary continued to perform that function, appealing the court’s decision to strike down the law.  Assume here, as EMW argues, that the attorney general also could have appealed.[1]*  Even if so, the attorney general had no reason to take that step: The secretary was handling the appeal, just as he had handled the trial court proceedings.  It was only once the Sixth Circuit ruled and the secretary ceased defending the law—choosing not to seek en banc or Supreme Court review—that the (now new) attorney general had an urgent reason to rejoin the suit: If he did not, the law would be invalidated.  The motion to intervene, then, was not an attempt to escape the consequences of failing to adhere to appellate deadlines, as in the hypothetical offered above.  The motion was instead a response to a major shift in the litigation, creating a new demand for the attorney general’s participation.  And that real-world fact answers EMW’s argument.  Granting the motion would not countenance an end-run around the timely-appeal rule by giving the attorney general a do-over.  It would simply recognize that only after the time for appeal had come and gone had a need arisen for the attorney general to reenter the suit.

															II

															With that threshold objection answered, the issue becomes how the factors bearing on intervention motions play out.  I agree with much of what the Court says on that issue (and also with its view that the attorney general’s agreement did not preclude his intervention).  But I see no reason to cast the analysis, even partially, in constitutional terms.  See ante, at 7–9.  Our longstanding practice is to avoid unnecessary discussion of constitutional questions.  See, e.g., Ashwander v. TVA, 297 U.S. 288, 345–348 (1936) (Brandeis, J., concurring).  And contra the majority, no invocation of, or lofty observations about, the Constitution are here needed.  The considerations governing intervention motions—applying equivalently to any person seeking to intervene, including the attorney general—show why the Sixth Circuit went wrong in closing off the suit.  See generally Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 24.

															Most fundamentally, the attorney general had a strong reason for intervening.  Once again, the secretary had defended the challenged law as constitutional until the Sixth Circuit ruled; but he then decided to abandon the argument.  If the attorney general could not assume the defense, and thus continue contesting EMW’s claim, Kentucky could no longer enforce its statute.  And it is of course true, as the majority says, that a State has a significant interest in enforcing its own laws.  See ante, at 8.  As a practical matter, then, the attorney general belonged in the suit, absent some good cause to exclude him.

															And as the Court concludes, no such cause was present.  See ante, at 10–13.  The intervention motion, though coming late in the suit, was still timely.  The attorney general intervened as soon as he had a reason to do so—more specifically, two days after he learned that the secretary would no longer defend the challenged law.  See United Airlines, Inc. v. McDonald, 432 U.S. 385, 394 (1977) (holding that a motion to intervene was timely because it was made “as soon as it became clear” that the movant’s interests “would no longer be protected” by existing parties).  And the motion was filed within the 14-day window for requesting an en banc rehearing—so did nothing to delay the suit’s normal progress.  See Fed. Rules App. Proc. 35(c) and 40(a)(1).  Nor did the motion otherwise prejudice EMW.  The attorney general sought to pursue only the usual next steps of appellate review—what the secretary would have done had he not ceased defending the law.  Of course, EMW would have preferred the secretary’s action to bring the case to an end.  But an unrealized gain of that kind does not count as a legally cognizable harm.  See McDonald, 432 U. S., at 394 (holding that a litigant cannot claim “unfair[ ] prejudice[ ]” when one person takes over an appeal from another).  Nothing, then, counterbalances the reasons for enabling the attorney general’s inclusion.

															*  *  *

															So I arrive, if via a somewhat different path, at the same endpoint as the Court.  In my view, the attorney general’s motion to intervene was not an end-run around the timely-appeal rule.  And with that issue out of the way, this is a textbook case for intervention.  The Sixth Circuit should have allowed the attorney general to step into the litigation to defend the challenged law.
Notes
1
* That assumption is perfectly reasonable.  The agreement of dismissal made the District Court’s judgment binding on the attorney general’s office (subject to any later revision or reversal).  See App. 29–30.  And a non-party bound by a judgment often has the same appeal rights as a party.  See Devlin v. Scardelletti, 536 U.S. 1, 7–8 (2002) (discussing cases); C. Wright, A. Miller, & E. Cooper, 15A Federal Practice and Procedure §3902.1, pp. 186–189, n. 35 (2d ed. Supp. 2021) (same). 


