::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-006
::decision_cite:: 20-601
::decision_name::  Cameron v. EMW Women's Surgical Center, P. S. C.
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–601

															_________________

															DANIEL CAMERON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF KENTUCKY, PETITIONER v. EMW WOMEN’S SURGICAL CENTER, P. S. C., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[March 3, 2022]

															

															Justice Thomas, concurring.

															I join the opinion of the Court.  I write to address another reason why respondents and their amici err in maintaining that the Court of Appeals lacked jurisdiction to consider Attorney General Cameron’s motion to intervene.

															As the Court explains, respondents now argue that Attorney General Cameron is jurisdictionally barred from intervening in the appeal because his predecessor, then-Attorney General Beshear, stipulated as a condition of his dismissal that the Kentucky attorney general’s office would be bound by the District Court’s final judgment.  According to respondents, that stipulation required the attorney general to timely notice an appeal consistent with Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure 3 and 4 if he wished to challenge the District Court’s judgment on appeal.  To allow intervention in the appeal, respondents posit, would circumvent the jurisdictional requirements of Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure 3 and 4.

															The Court rightly rejects respondents’ novel argument because the attorney general’s stipulation preserved his office’s right to participate in the appeal.  See ante, at 6–7.  But in addition to the infirmity the Court identifies, respondents’ jurisdictional argument suffers from another, more basic flaw: Rules 3 and 4 permit only “parties” to appeal a district court judgment, and the attorney general was not a “party” to the judgment after he was dismissed from the litigation.

															Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure 3(a)(1) and 4(a)(1)(A) together require that any appeals from a district court judgment be pursued by filing a notice of appeal within 30 days after entry of the judgment.  See also 28 U. S. C. §2107(a).  We have described this requirement as “jurisdictional.”  See Torres v. Oakland Scavenger Co., 487 U.S. 312, 315 (1988); see also Gonzalez v. Thaler, 565 U.S. 134, 147 (2012).  We have also held that Rule 3(c)—requiring, among other things, that the notice of appeal “specify the party or parties taking the appeal,” Fed. Rule App. Proc. 3(c)(1)(A)—is likewise jurisdictional.  See Torres, 487 U. S., at 314–318; Becker v. Montgomery, 532 U.S. 757, 765–766 (2001).  Rule 3(c)(1)(A)’s requirement that the notice specify the “party” taking the appeal reflects the “well settled” “rule that only parties to a lawsuit, or those that properly become parties, may appeal an adverse judgment.”  Marino v. Ortiz, 484 U.S. 301, 304 (1988) (per curiam).  For example, individuals who are “not parties to the underlying lawsuit” and fail to intervene in the District Court cannot appeal a District Court’s judgment.  Ibid.  We are not at liberty to create “exceptions to this general rule,” even when “the nonparty has an interest that is affected by the trial court’s judgment.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Here, the attorney general was not a “party” to the District Court’s final judgment.  Then-Attorney General Beshear was originally a “party” to this suit because he was named as a defendant in the complaint.  But the District Court later dismissed Attorney General Beshear’s office from the litigation in May 2018—about a year before final judgment.  A “party” dismissed from a lawsuit is no longer a “party” to it after his dismissal.  Just as “intervention is the requisite method for a nonparty to become a party to a lawsuit,” United States ex rel. Eisenstein v. City of New York, 556 U.S. 928, 933 (2009), dismissal is the quintessential (if not only) method for a party to become a nonparty, see, e.g., 67A C. J. S., Parties §86 (2013) (“Once a person is dismissed from a lawsuit, he or she is generally no longer a party to it”).

															One need hardly look beyond the case caption to see how dismissal ended the attorney general’s status as a “party” to the litigation.  To be sure, case captions are “ ‘not determinative as to the identity of the parties to the action.’ ”  Eisenstein, 556 U. S., at 935 (quoting 5A C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and Procedure §1321, p. 388 (3d ed. 2004)).  But they can be instructive, given that “ ‘[t]he designation of persons as parties is usually made in the caption of the summons or complaint.’ ”  Devlin v. Scardelletti, 536 U.S. 1, 15 (2002) (Scalia, J., dissenting) (quoting Restatement (Second) of Judgments §34, Comment a, Reporter’s Note, p. 347 (1980)).  Here, because respondents initially named then-Attorney General Beshear as the lead defendant in their complaint, the District Court’s orders originally captioned the defendants as “ANDREW G. BESHEAR, et al.”  E.g., App. 28.  After the District Court dismissed the attorney general on May 21, 2018, the court ordered the clerk to modify the case caption to “reflect the remaining properly named Defendants”: “Meier, et al.” Id., at 5, 7; see also App. to Pet. for Cert. 104a (District Court final judgment listing the defendants as “ADAM W. MEIER et al.”).  The District Court’s modification of the caption confirms that when the court issued its judgment, the attorney general was no longer a “party.”

															Because the attorney general was not a “party” to the District Court’s final judgment, respondents’ jurisdictional argument necessarily fails.  As a nonparty, the attorney general could not notice an appeal under Rules 3 and 4.  And because he could not notice an appeal, he could not possibly have been obligated to do so, rather than pursue intervention—“the requisite method for a nonparty to become a party to a lawsuit.”  Eisenstein, 556 U. S., at 933.

															Respondents resist this conclusion and contend that the attorney general remained a “party” because then-Attorney General Beshear stipulated upon dismissal that “any final judgment in this action . . . will be binding on the Office of the Attorney General, subject to any modification, reversal or vacation of the judgment on appeal.”  App. 29–30.  Respondents’ argument has a veneer of plausibility only because of our decision in Devlin v. Scardelletti, 536 U.S. 1.  There, a majority of this Court held that a nonnamed member of a certified class action was a “party” who could appeal the approval of a settlement to which he objected.  Id., at 10.  Rejecting the settled bright-line rule that only a named party may appeal a final judgment, the Court adopted a vague, functionalist inquiry that determined “party” status “based on context.”  Ibid.

															Applying that test, Devlin held that “nonnamed class members are parties to the proceedings in the sense of being bound by the [judgment],” and it was “th[at] feature of class action litigation that require[d] that class members be allowed to appeal the approval of a settlement.”  Ibid.  “To hold otherwise,” the Court explained, “would deprive nonnamed class members of the power to preserve their own interests in a settlement that will ultimately bind them.”  Ibid.

															I joined Justice Scalia’s dissent in Devlin, which reiterated that “ ‘parties’ to a judgment are those named as such—whether as the original plaintiff or defendant in the complaint giving rise to the judgment, or as ‘one who though not an original party becomes a party by intervention, substitution, or third-party practice.’ ”  536 U. S., at 15 (quoting Karcher v. May, 484 U.S. 72, 77 (1987); alterations omitted).  The Devlin Court’s holding was, and is, “contrary” to that “well-established law.”  536 U. S., at 150.  To reason, as Devlin did, that merely being bound by a judgment transformed a nonnamed class member into a “party,” surely “c[a]me as news to law students everywhere.”  Id., at 18; see also Marino, 484 U. S., at 304 (previously rejecting that individuals become “parties” merely because they have “an interest that is affected by the trial court’s judgment”).  After all, “[t]here are any number of persons who are not parties to a judgment yet are nonetheless bound by it.”  Devlin, 536 U. S., at 18. For example, as pertinent here, when “ ‘[a] person agrees to be bound by the determination of issues in an action between others,’ ” we call application of claim or issue preclusion to that person “nonparty preclusion” precisely because agreeing to be bound by a judgment does not alone make one a “party” to it.  Taylor v. Sturgell, 553 U.S. 880, 893 (2008) (quoting Restatement (Second) of Judgments §40, at 390; emphasis added).

															Devlin was demonstrably erroneous for the reasons set forth in Justice Scalia’s dissent, and we should overrule it in an appropriate case.  That said, Devlin does not control here.  Several years after Devlin, in Eisenstein, we unanimously reiterated the principle that “[a] ‘party’ to litigation is ‘[o]ne by or against whom a lawsuit is brought.’ ”  556 U. S., at 933 (quoting Black’s Law Dictionary 1154 (8th ed. 2004)).  Relying on Devlin’s reasoning, the petitioner there argued that the United States must be a “party” within the meaning of Rule 4(a)(1)(B) because the Government is “bound by the judgment” in all actions under the False Claims Act “regardless of its participation in the case.”  556 U. S., at 936.  Consistent with our pre-Devlin cases, we reiterated that this fact was “not determinative” because “nonparties may be bound by a judgment for a host of different reasons,” 556 U. S., at 936, none of which suffices to transform them into parties.  We distinguished Devlin’s contrary reasoning by invoking the specific “class-action nature of the suit” there, 556 U. S., at 934, n. 3, essentially cabining that precedent to class actions alone.  And, true to Eisenstein, we have not once relied on Devlin outside the class-action context.  See United States v. Sanchez-Gomez, 584 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 6); Standard Fire Ins. Co. v. Knowles, 568 U.S. 588, 593 (2013); Smith v. Bayer Corp., 564 U. S 299, 313–315 (2011).  Devlin is therefore an aberration from our otherwise consistent view that only a named party may file a notice of appeal under Rules 3 and 4.  And because this case does not involve a class action, Devlin has no precedential force. 

															*  *  *

															The Office of the Kentucky Attorney General was not a named “party” to the District Court’s final judgment.  The attorney general, accordingly, could not notice an appeal from that judgment under Rules 3 and 4.  And because the attorney general could not appeal the District Court’s judgment, Attorney General Cameron moved to intervene and pursue “the requisite method for a nonparty to become a party to a lawsuit.”  Eisenstein, 556 U. S., at 933.  Far from evading the jurisdictional requirements of Rules 3 and 4, Cameron’s motion to intervene was his only legitimate option to both comply with those Rules and participate in the appeal as a party.  For this reason, as well as those given in the opinion of the Court, respondents’ jurisdictional argument fails.
													
