::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-006
::decision_cite:: 20-601
::decision_name::  Cameron v. EMW Women's Surgical Center, P. S. C.
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–601

															_________________

															DANIEL CAMERON, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF KENTUCKY, PETITIONER v. EMW WOMEN’S SURGICAL CENTER, P. S. C., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[March 3, 2022]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, dissenting.

															In every case, there must be a “point of time when litigation shall be at an end.”  Browder v. Director, Dept. of Corrections of Ill., 434 U.S. 257, 264 (1978) (internal quotation marks omitted).  To effectuate that endpoint, our legal system requires parties to abide by representations made in a lawsuit regardless of later regrets.  In this case, the attorney general of Kentucky stipulated to his own dismissal as a party in the District Court and agreed to have another official represent Kentucky’s interests.  Only years later, and after the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court’s judgment, did the attorney general ask the Court of Appeals to allow him to return based on a position he had disavowed when securing his dismissal earlier in the litigation.  The Court of Appeals refused his request to intervene.

															Generally, the decision whether to permit intervention in a case is left to the “sound discretion” of the court in which intervention is sought, as that court is the best positioned to assess potential inefficiencies and unfairness that might result.  NAACP v. New York, 413 U.S. 345, 366 (1973).  The Court acknowledges that highly deferential standard, but nonetheless bends over backward to accommodate the attorney general’s reentry into the case.  I fear today’s decision will open the floodgates for government officials to evade the consequences of litigation decisions made by their predecessors of different political parties, undermining finality and upsetting the settled expectations of courts, litigants, and the public alike.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															In March 2018, the Kentucky Legislature enacted House Bill 454 (H. B. 454), which prohibits “dilation and evacuation” abortions after 11 weeks of pregnancy except in medical emergencies.  Respondents, a clinic and two of its physicians, challenged the law, contending that it violates the Fourteenth Amendment by imposing an undue burden on the right to previability abortion.  Respondents named four defendants in the complaint, including the attorney general of Kentucky and the interim secretary of Kentucky’s Cabinet for Health and Family Services (secretary).[1]  Each was named in his official capacity.  At the time, Andrew Beshear, a Democrat, served as Kentucky’s attorney general.  The secretary served as part of the administration of Governor Matt Bevin, a Republican.

															Respondents sought a motion for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction.  In response, the attorney general disclaimed responsibility for enforcing the law.  The attorney general explained that “H. B. 454 does not confer upon the Attorney General the authority or duty to enforce the provisions as enacted” and “does not provide the Attorney General with any regulatory responsibility or other authority to take any action.”  Electronic Case Filing in No. 3:18–cv–00224 (WD Ky., May 8, 2018) (ECF), Doc. 42, p. 1.  He concluded that, as a result, “there is no act of the Attorney General or his Office for the Court to enjoin.”  Ibid.  The attorney general asserted no interest in defending the constitutionality of H. B. 454 on behalf of the State.

															Shortly thereafter, the attorney general and the respondents submitted to the District Court a joint stipulation and proposed order of dismissal.  The stipulation provided that the attorney general “agrees that any final judgment in this action concerning the constitutionality of HB 454 (2018) will be binding on the Office of the Attorney General, subject to any modification, reversal or vacation of the judgment on appeal.”  ECF Doc. 46, at 2.  It also specified that he reserved “all rights, claims, and defenses” that were available to him, including those related to “whether he is a proper party in this action and in any appeals arising out of this action.”  Id., at 1.  The District Court entered the order dismissing the attorney general from the case.

															The attorney general did not participate in any further proceedings before the District Court.  The secretary continued to defend H. B. 454.  After a 5-day bench trial, the District Court issued a permanent injunction against the enforcement of H. B. 454, declaring it unconstitutional under this Court’s precedents.  Subsequently, the secretary alone filed a notice of appeal.  

															After the secretary’s appeal was fully briefed, but before argument, then-Attorney General Beshear was elected Governor and Daniel Cameron, a Republican, was elected as Kentucky’s new attorney general.  Four of the secretary’s lawyers moved to withdraw from the case, explaining that they would no longer be employed in their current positions.  Some weeks later, the same four attorneys, now employed by the Office of the Attorney General, appeared as counsel for the secretary.  Attorney General Cameron also entered an appearance as counsel for the secretary.  He did not seek to intervene.

															The Court of Appeals rendered judgment against the secretary, affirming the District Court’s judgment.  After this decision, the secretary communicated to the attorney general that he did not intend to defend H. B. 454 further by, for example, filing a petition for rehearing en banc or seeking a writ of certiorari.  Attorney General Cameron and the lawyers from his office who had appeared as counsel for the secretary moved to withdraw, and the attorney general moved to intervene as a party in his own right.  This was nearly five months after the attorney general reappeared as counsel for the secretary and over two years after the District Court entered the stipulated order of dismissal.  The attorney general also tendered a petition for rehearing en banc.

															The Court of Appeals denied the motion and dismissed the petition for rehearing en banc.  It observed, among other things, that the attorney general’s motion to intervene came “years into [the case’s] progress,” after both the District Court and the Court of Appeals had issued decisions.  EMW Women’s Surgical Center, P.S.C. v. Friedlander, 831 Fed. Appx. 748, 750 (CA6 2020).  It explained that having been “named . . . as a defendant” in the complaint and having “stipulated [to his own] dismissal,” the attorney general was unquestionably put on notice of the case long before the Court of Appeals issued its decision.  Id., at 751.  In the Court of Appeals’ view, allowing the attorney general to intervene at this late hour would give would-be intervenors “every incentive to sit out litigation until [a court of appeals] issue[s] a decision contrary to their preferences, whereupon they can spring to action.”  Id., at 750.  The Court of Appeals clarified that it was “not reach[ing] the issue of whether Attorney General Cameron has a substantial legal interest in the subject matter of this case” nor “question[ing] whether states’ attorneys general may appropriately intervene to defend their states’ laws,” but merely addressing the appropriateness of the attorney general’s intervention under the circumstances of “this particular case.”  Id., at 752, n. 4.

															This Court granted the attorney general’s petition for certiorari, and now reverses.

															II

															I have no quarrel with the Court’s holding that no jurisdictional bar precluded the attorney general’s intervention.  On the facts of this case, however, I disagree with the Court’s determination that the Court of Appeals’ denial of the attorney general’s motion to intervene constituted an abuse of discretion.  The Court reaches that result only by giving short shrift to a critical and unusual aspect of this case: The attorney general’s motion to intervene was based on arguments he had eschewed below and was filed only after judgments had been rendered by both the District Court and the Court of Appeals.  The attorney general’s change in position alone requires affirmance.

															The Court correctly observes that “[r]esolution of a motion for permissive intervention is committed to the discretion of the court before which intervention is sought.”  Ante, at 9 (citing Automobile Workers v. Scofield, 382 U.S. 205, 217, n. 10 (1965); Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 24(b)(1)(a)).  The Court may reverse, in other words, only if it determines that the Court of Appeals abused its discretion by denying the attorney general’s motion for intervention.  See generally NAACP, 413 U. S., at 366.

															The attorney general sought to intervene in the Court of Appeals “to ensure that [the State’s] interests with respect to H. B. 454” were “fully defended.”  ECF in No. 19–5516 (CA6, June 11, 2020), Doc. 56, pp. 5, 8; see id., at 13 (noting that there is “no doubt” that Kentucky, “through Attorney General Cameron,” has a sufficient legal interest in the matter).  In the District Court, however, the attorney general took a different view.  There, he represented that he had no interest in the case because “H. B. 454 does not confer upon the Attorney General the authority or duty to enforce the provisions as enacted,” and insisted that the law “does not provide the Attorney General with any regulatory responsibility or other authority to take any action related to the Act.”  ECF Doc. 42, at 1.  Based on this representation, respondents entered into a stipulation agreement with the attorney general, and the District Court entered its dismissal order.

															As a general matter, “ ‘where a party assumes a certain position in a legal proceeding, and succeeds in maintaining that position, he may not thereafter, simply because his interests have changed, assume a contrary position, especially if it be to the prejudice of the party who has acquiesced in the position formerly taken by him.’ ”  New Hampshire v. Maine, 532 U.S. 742, 749 (2001) (quoting Davis v. Wakelee, 156 U.S. 680, 689 (1895); alteration omitted).  This principle is not limited to private litigants.  Courts and other parties are also “entitled to rely on [a] State’s plausible interpretation of the law it is charged with enforcing.”  Sorrell v. IMS Health Inc., 564 U.S. 552, 563 (2011).  A state official’s late-breaking effort to change his theory of state law comes with costs to judicial efficiency and finality, and it disrupts the expectations not only of the adversarial litigant but of other parties who may have litigated based on their understanding of both the State’s position and who would represent the State’s interests.[2]

															The Court’s failure to acknowledge the attorney general’s switch in position leads it to an erroneous result.  The Court primarily faults the Court of Appeals for “fail[ing] to account for the strength of the Kentucky attorney general’s interest in taking up the defense of HB 454.”  Ante, at 9.  All agree that States and their authorized officials have substantial sovereign interests in defending their laws.  The Office of the Attorney General, however, previously represented that it had no interest in these proceedings.  Had the attorney general been a private litigant, that decision would have been binding: This Court regularly “has . . . refused to consider a party’s argument that contradicted a joint ‘stipulation [entered] at the outset of th[e] litigation.’ ”  Christian Legal Soc. Chapter of Univ. of Cal., Hastings College of Law v. Martinez, 561 U.S. 661, 677 (2010) (quoting Board of Regents of Univ. of Wis. System v. Southworth, 529 U.S. 217, 226 (2000); alterations in original).  Respect for state sovereignty does not entitle a state official to evade these well-established consequences.  Given the attorney general’s change in position and the deferential standard of review, the Court of Appeals did not abuse its discretion by denying his motion for intervention.

															Further, as the Court acknowledges, Kentucky law provides that the attorney general and other authorized state officials, including the secretary, “shar[e ] . . . authority” to defend the constitutionality of state laws, or to decline to do so.  Ante, at 8; see Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann. §12.210(1) (West 2021).  The Court makes much of the attorney general’s role in defending Kentucky law, but gives short shrift to the manner in which Kentucky has structured its law to allow other state officers to represent the State’s interests in court.  When the attorney general stipulated to dismissal from the case, he acquiesced to the secretary’s right under state law to represent Kentucky’s interests in the manner that the secretary saw fit.

															Notably, the Court’s decision to allow intervention on appeal is without precedent.  Before the Court of Appeals, the attorney general was able to identify only two instances, both from the Ninth Circuit, in which a federal court of appeals granted a post-decision motion to intervene, a fact that “points decisively against intervention” and hardly suggests that denial of intervention would be an abuse of discretion.  831 Fed. Appx., at 750.  Neither of those two cases involved a situation in which the intervenor on behalf of the State was a party to the case earlier in the proceedings, let alone one in which the intervenor had previously disclaimed his theory of intervention to obtain dismissal from the suit.  See Day v. Apoliona, 505 F.3d 963, 965–966 (CA9 2007); Peruta v. County of San Diego, 824 F.3d 919, 941 (CA9 2016) (en banc).  Indeed, the Ninth Circuit has denied intervention on facts similar to these.  In Yniguez v. Arizona, 939 F.2d 727 (1991), the court considered a state attorney general’s motion to intervene on appeal to defend the constitutionality of a state law where the attorney general had previously “argued for and won a dismissal of the suit against him in the district court.”  Id., at 729.  There, as here, the attorney general sought to intervene after the only remaining state defendant in the case declined to pursue the case further.  Id., at 730.  The court nonetheless held that “having argued in the district court that he should not be a party, the Attorney General is estopped from now arguing that he should be.”  Id., at 738.  Other Courts of Appeals have similarly held that stipulations entered into by a public official in his official capacity are binding on the official’s successors.  Morales Feliciano v. Rullan, 303 F.3d 1, 8 (CA1 2002); Vann v. United States Dept. of Interior, 701 F.3d 927, 929 (CADC 2012); see generally 11A A. Miller, M. Kane, & C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure §2956 (3d ed. 2021).

															Perhaps the Court means to excuse the attorney general from his prior stipulation because of the intervening election.  That election undoubtedly explains, as a practical matter, the attorney general’s change in position.  But the Court’s reasoning would seem to apply equally if Attorney General Cameron had held office since the outset of this lawsuit, made a calculated decision to stipulate to dismissal and let another state officer take the lead, and later sought to reenter when that officer decided not to pursue further appeals.

															Moreover, this is not the first time a governmental office has changed hands in the middle of a protracted lawsuit, and it certainly will not be the last.  Elections have consequences not just for the public but also for state officers who may find themselves bound by strategic litigation choices made by their predecessors in office.  Shifts in the political winds do not support a special carveout to longstanding principles of estoppel.  Rules that protect reliance and finality exist for good reason: Courts, litigants, and the public must be able to trust representations made in court.  If anything, that reliance is only heightened when a government official represented that he had no interest in defending state law.

															*  *  *

															The question in this case is not whether a state attorney general may intervene, after a federal court of appeals already has rendered its judgment, for the purpose of defending a state law where no other state actor will do so.  At issue is a more specific question: whether the Court of Appeals acted within its discretion by denying this attorney general leave to intervene when his office previously stipulated to dismissal on grounds that contradicted his argument for intervention.  Under these circumstances, I would not disturb the “sound discretion” of the court below.  NAACP, 413 U. S., at 366.  I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 The other two defendants were the executive director of the Kentucky Board of Medical Licensure and the Commonwealth’s Attorney for the 30th Judicial Circuit of Kentucky.   

2
 In the majority’s view, the attorney general should not be held to his earlier representation because, although he secured his own dismissal in his official capacity and now seeks to intervene in his official capacity, his theory of his role in the litigation is different.  See ante, at 9–10, n. 5.  The Court cites no authority for this “two hats theory,” Tr. of Oral Arg. 29, because it cannot.  This Court’s precedents recognize, of course, the distinction between litigating in one’s personal capacity and one’s official capacity.  See, e.g., Bender v. Williamsport Area School Dist., 475 U.S. 534, 543–544 (1986).  But the Court has never held that a state official can wear separate “hats” within his official capacity for distinct purposes, with different legal effect. 


