::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-004
::decision_cite:: 20-637
::decision_name::  Hemphill v. New York
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–637

															_________________

															DARRELL HEMPHILL, PETITIONER v. NEW YORK

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeals of new york

															[January 20, 2022]

															

															Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.

															In 2006, a stray 9-millimeter bullet killed a 2-year-old child in the Bronx.  The State charged Nicholas Morris with the murder, but after trial commenced, it offered him a plea deal for a lesser charge.  The State specifically required Morris to admit to a new charge of possession of a .357-magnum revolver, not the 9-millimeter handgun originally charged in the indictment and used in the killing. 

															Years later, the State prosecuted petitioner Darrell Hemphill for the same murder.  At his trial, Hemphill blamed Morris, and he elicited undisputed testimony from a prosecution witness that police had recovered 9-millimeter ammunition from Morris’ nightstand.  Morris was outside the United States and not available to testify.  The trial court allowed the State to introduce parts of the transcript of Morris’ plea allocution as evidence to rebut Hemphill’s theory that Morris committed the murder.  The court reasoned that Hemphill’s arguments and evidence had “open[ed] the door” to the introduction of these testimonial out-of-court statements, not subjected to cross-examination, because they were “ ‘reasonably necessary’ ” to “ ‘correct’ ” the “ ‘misleading impression’ ” Hemphill had created.  People v. Reid, 19 N.Y.3d 382, 388, 971 N.E.2d 353, 357 (2012).

															The question is whether the admission of the plea allocution under New York’s rule in People v. Reid violated Hemphill’s
 
Sixth Amendment right to confront the witnesses against him.  The Court holds that it did.  Hemphill did not forfeit his confrontation right merely by making the plea allocution arguably relevant to his theory of defense.

															I

															A

															In April 2006, Ronnell Gilliam and several other individuals got into a physical fight near Tremont Avenue in the Bronx.  Shortly after the fight, someone fired a 9-millimeter handgun.  The bullet killed a 2-year-old child sitting in a nearby minivan. 

															Police officers determined that Gilliam was involved and that Nicholas Morris, Gilliam’s best friend, had been at the scene.  Officers searched Morris’ apartment.  On Morris’ nightstand, the officers found a 9-millimeter cartridge and three .357-caliber bullets.  Three witnesses identified Morris as the shooter out of a police lineup. 

															The police arrested Morris the next day and observed bruising on his knuckles consistent with fist fighting.  Gilliam then surrendered and identified Morris as the shooter.  Gilliam later returned to the police station and recanted, stating that Hemphill, Gilliam’s cousin, had in fact been the shooter.  Investigators initially did not credit Gilliam’s recantation; instead, the State charged Morris with the child’s murder and for possession of a 9-millimeter handgun.  After opening statements at Morris’ 2008 trial, however, the State decided not to oppose Morris’ application for a mistrial to allow the State to reconsider the charges against him.

															Approximately six weeks later, the State agreed to dismiss the murder charges against Morris if he pleaded guilty to criminal possession of a weapon.  But rather than having Morris plead to the charge in the existing indictment for possession of a 9-millimeter handgun, the State filed a new charge alleging that Morris had possessed a .357-magnum revolver, a different type of firearm than the one used to kill the victim.  In exchange for this plea, the prosecution recommended a sentence of time served.  The State and Morris’ counsel agreed that there was insufficient evidence of Morris’ possession of a .357-magnum revolver to obtain an indictment absent Morris’ willingness to admit to the allegations.  Morris did so, against his attorney’s advice, to secure his release that day.  

															In 2011, the State learned that Hemphill’s DNA matched a sample from a blue sweater that police had recovered in a search of Gilliam’s apartment shortly after the crime.  Eyewitnesses had described the shooter as wearing a blue shirt or sweater.  In 2013, Hemphill was arrested and indicted for the murder.  

															B

															At trial, Hemphill pursued a third-party culpability defense by blaming Morris for the shooting.  In his opening statement, Hemphill’s counsel noted that officers had recovered 9-millimeter ammunition from Morris’ nightstand hours after a 9-millimeter bullet killed the victim.  The State did not object, but later contended that Hemphill’s argument had been misleading because officers also had found .357-caliber bullets on the nightstand and because Morris ultimately pleaded guilty to possessing a .357 revolver.  

															Morris, however, was unavailable to testify at Hemphill’s trial. As a result, the State sought to introduce the transcript of Morris’ plea allocution to suggest that he had possessed only a .357 revolver.  Hemphill’s counsel objected, arguing that the plea allocution was “clearly hearsay” and that Hemphill was being “deprived of an opportunity [for] cross-examination.”  App. 107.  The trial court deferred ruling and, in the meantime, allowed the State to put on testimony regarding the .357-caliber bullets on Morris’ nightstand.  Accordingly, both the State and Hemphill elicited undisputed testimony from a law enforcement officer that a 9-millimeter cartridge and .357-caliber bullets were recovered from Morris’ nightstand.

															The trial court then revisited the State’s application to introduce Morris’ plea allocution.  Hemphill’s counsel objected again, citing this Court’s decision in Crawford v. Washington,

541 U.S. 36 (2004): “I think it is [a] Crawford violation.  I think the evidence is being offered to incriminate Mr. Hemphill.  I’m being deprived of the opportunity to examine Mr. Morris, and I don’t see how it would not be a Crawford violation.”  App. 160.[1]

															A few days later, the trial court announced its ruling.  The court relied on People v. Reid, 19 N.Y.3d 382, 971 N.E.2d 353.  In Reid, New York’s highest court held that a criminal defendant could “ope[n] the door” to evidence that would otherwise be inadmissible under the Confrontation Clause if the evidence was “ ‘reasonably necessary to correct [a] misleading impression’ ” made by the defense’s “ ‘evidence or argument.’ ”  Id., at 388, 971 N. E. 2d, at 357 (quoting People v. Massie, 2 N.Y.3d 179, 184, 809 N.E.2d 1102, 1105 (2004)).  The trial court applied Reid as follows:

															“[A] significant aspect of the defense in this case is that Morris, who [was] originally prosecuted for this homicide, was, in fact, the actual shooter and that as such, the defendant, Hemphill, was excluded as the shooter.  There is, however, evidence contrary to the argument presented by the defense in this case . . . .  In my judgment, the defense’s argument, which in all respects is appropriate and under the circumstances of this case probably a necessary argument to make, nonetheless, opens the door to evidence offered by the [S]tate refuting the claim that Morris was, in fact, the shooter.”  App. 184, 185.

															Based on this ruling, the State published to the jury the portions of the transcript of Morris’ plea hearing containing Morris’ admission to possessing a .357 revolver and his counsel’s statements that he was doing so against counsel’s advice, without corroborating evidence, in order to get out of jail immediately. 

															Hemphill premised his closing argument, like the rest of his defense, on the theory that Morris was the shooter.  The State, in its closing, cited Morris’ plea allocution and emphasized that possession of a .357 revolver, not murder, was “the crime [Morris] actually committed.”  Id., at 356.  After deliberations spanning multiple days, the jury found Hemphill guilty, and the court sentenced him to 25 years to life in prison.

															C

															Hemphill appealed.  Before the Appellate Division, he argued, citing the State and Federal Constitutions, that “[t]he court denied Mr. Hemphill his right to confront the witness against him where it admitted Nicholas Morris’s guilty plea statements . . . because the defense had opened the door to this evidence even though counsel had scrupulously followed the court’s in limine rulings.”  Supp. App. to Brief in Opposition SA107.  He added, “the prosecution’s conduct here represented the type of overreach the Confrontation Clause was enacted to prevent: the production of evidence procured by the government without affording the accused the opportunity to question its reliability through cross-examination.”  Id., at SA111.

															The Appellate Division affirmed.  In relevant part, it reasoned that “[d]uring the trial, defendant created a misleading impression that Morris possessed a 9 millimeter handgun, which was consistent with the type used in the murder, and introduction of the plea allocution was reasonably necessary to correct that misleading impression.”  173 App. Div. 3d 471, 477, 103 N. Y. S. 3d 64, 71 (2019).  Justice Manzanet-Daniels dissented on other grounds, arguing in part that the evidence was insufficient to support Hemphill’s conviction.

															Hemphill sought review from the New York Court of Appeals, the State’s highest court.  He contended:

															“The Appellate Division’s analysis equates presenting a valid, evidence-based third party defense with misleading the jury, opening the door to testimonial hearsay. . . . Such an approach is absurd in the context of the Confrontation Clause, the purpose of which is to afford the accused the right to meaningfully test the prosecution’s proof.”  App. 388.

															The Court of Appeals affirmed.  35 N.Y.3d 1035, 1036–1037, 150 N. E. 3d 356, 357–358 (2020). This Court granted certiorari.  593 U. S. ___ (2021).

															II

															Before proceeding to the merits, the Court must address the State’s threshold argument that Hemphill failed to present his claim adequately to the state courts.

															This Court “has almost unfailingly refused to consider any federal-law challenge to a state-court decision unless the federal claim ‘was either addressed by or properly presented to the state court that rendered the decision we have been asked to review.’ ”  Howell v. Mississippi,

543 U.S. 440, 443 (2005) (per curiam) (quoting Adams v. Robertson,

520 U.S. 83, 86 (1997) (per curiam)).  “ ‘No particular form of words or phrases is essential’ ” for satisfying the presentation requirement, so long as the claim is “ ‘brought to the attention of the state court with fair precision and in due time.’ ”  Street v. New York,

394 U.S. 576, 584 (1969) (quoting New York ex rel. Bryant v. Zimmerman,

278 U.S. 63, 67 (1928)).

															Hemphill has satisfied this requirement.  At every level of his proceedings in state court, Hemphill argued that the admission of Morris’ plea allocution violated his
 
Sixth Amendment right to confrontation as interpreted by this Court in Crawford.  Before the trial court, Hemphill timely objected that admission of the plea allocution would be “a Crawford violation.”  App. 160.  Before the Appellate Division, he argued that the trial court “denied Mr. Hemphill his 6th Amendment right to confront the witnesses against him.”  Supp. App. to Brief in Opposition SA108.  And before the Court of Appeals, he contended that “[t]he Appellate Division’s analysis,” which had affirmed the trial court’s admission of the plea allocution, “is absurd in the context of the Confrontation Clause, the purpose of which is to afford the accused the right to meaningfully test the prosecution’s proof.”  App. 388.  “Once a federal claim is properly presented, a party can make any argument in support of that claim.”  Yee v. Escondido,

503 U.S. 519, 534 (1992).  The Court may therefore consider any argument Hemphill raises in support of his claim that he did not “forfei[t] his right to exclude evidence otherwise barred by the Confrontation Clause” by “open[ing] the door to responsive evidence.”  Pet. for Cert. i.[2]

															Accordingly, the Court turns to the merits of that claim.

															III

															A

															One of the bedrock constitutional protections afforded to criminal defendants is the Confrontation Clause of the
 
Sixth Amendment, which states: “In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right . . . to be confronted with the witnesses against him.”[3]  

															In Ohio v. Roberts,

448 U.S. 56, 66 (1980), this Court had held that this confrontation right did not bar the admission of statements of an unavailable witness so long as those statements had “adequate ‘indicia of reliability,’ ” meaning that they fell “within a firmly rooted hearsay exception” or otherwise bore “particularized guarantees of trustworthiness.”  However, 24 years later, this Court rejected that reliability-based approach to the Confrontation Clause.  See Crawford, 541 U. S., at 61.

															In charting a different path, the Crawford Court examined the history of the confrontation right at common law and concluded that “the principal evil at which the Confrontation Clause was directed was the civil-law mode of criminal procedure, and particularly its use of ex parte examinations as evidence against the accused.”  Id., at 50.  The Court continued, “the Framers would not have allowed admission of testimonial statements of a witness who did not appear at trial unless he was unavailable to testify, and the defendant had had a prior opportunity for cross-examination.”  Id., at 53–54.[4]  Because “[t]he text of the
 
Sixth Amendment does not suggest any open-ended exceptions from the confrontation requirement to be developed by the courts,” the requirement was “most naturally read” to admit “only those exceptions established at the time of the founding.”  Id., at 54; see also Giles v. California,

554 U.S. 353, 377 (2008) (“declin[ing] to approve an exception to the Confrontation Clause unheard of at the time of the founding or for 200 years thereafter”).

															B

															The State accepts all of the foregoing principles.  It does not dispute that Morris’ plea allocution was testimonial, meaning that it implicated Hemphill’s rights under the Confrontation Clause.  Nor does the State argue that the “opening the door” rule announced in People v. Reid and applied in Hemphill’s case was an exception to the right to confrontation at common law.

															The State’s primary contention is that the Reid rule “is not an exception to the Confrontation Clause at all.”  Brief for Respondent 36.  Instead, the State attempts to characterize the Reid rule as a mere “procedural rule” that “treats the misleading door-opening actions of counsel as the equivalent of failing to object to the confrontation violation.”  Brief for Respondent 31.  So construed, the argument goes, the Reid rule limits only the manner of asserting the confrontation right, not its substantive scope.

															It is true that the
 
Sixth Amendment leaves States with flexibility to adopt reasonable procedural rules governing the exercise of a defendant’s right to confrontation.  For example, “States are free to adopt procedural rules governing objections,” including contemporaneous objection requirements and, in the context of forensic evidence, “notice-and-demand statutes.”  Melendez-Diaz v. Massachusetts,

557 U.S. 305, 327 (2009).  In addition, the Confrontation Clause will not bar a defendant’s removal from a courtroom if, despite repeated warnings, he “insists on conducting himself in a manner so disorderly, disruptive, and disrespectful of the court that his trial cannot be carried on with him in the courtroom.”  Illinois v. Allen,

397 U.S. 337, 343 (1970).

															The door-opening principle incorporated in Reid, however, is not a member of this class of procedural rules.  Rather, it is a substantive principle of evidence that dictates what material is relevant and admissible in a case.  See Massie, 2 N. Y. 3d, at 182–184, 809 N. E. 2d, at 1104–1105 (citing People v. Melendez, 55 N.Y.2d 445, 434 N.E.2d 1324 (1982), a case about the admissibility of hearsay testimony, as “[t]he leading case in this Court on ‘opening the door’ ”); New York State Unified Court System, Guide to New York Evidence Rule 4.08 (2021) (explaining the “open the door” principle as a rule of evidence).  As this case illustrates, the principle requires a trial court to determine whether one party’s evidence and arguments, in the context of the full record, have created a “misleading impression” that requires correction with additional material from the other side.  

															Moreover, the State’s argument would negate Crawford’s emphatic rejection of the reliability-based approach of Ohio v. Roberts.  If Crawford stands for anything, it is that the history, text, and purpose of the Confrontation Clause bar judges from substituting their own determinations of reliability for the method the Constitution guarantees.  The Clause “commands, not that evidence be reliable, but that reliability be assessed in a particular manner: by testing in the crucible of cross-examination.”  Crawford, 541 U. S., at 61.  It “thus reflects a judgment, not only about the desirability of reliable evidence (a point on which there could be little dissent), but about how reliability can best be determined.”  Ibid.  “[A] mere judicial determination” regarding the reliability of evidence is no substitute for the “constitutionally prescribed method of assessing reliability.”  Id., at 62.  The upshot is that the role of the trial judge is not, for Confrontation Clause purposes, to weigh the reliability or credibility of testimonial hearsay evidence; it is to ensure that the Constitution’s procedures for testing the reliability of that evidence are followed.

															The trial court here violated this principle by admitting unconfronted, testimonial hearsay against Hemphill simply because the judge deemed his presentation to have created a misleading impression that the testimonial hearsay was reasonably necessary to correct.  For Confrontation Clause purposes, it was not for the judge to determine whether Hemphill’s theory that Morris was the shooter was unreliable, incredible, or otherwise misleading in light of the State’s proffered, unconfronted plea evidence.  Nor, under the Clause, was it the judge’s role to decide that this evidence was reasonably necessary to correct that misleading impression.  Such inquiries are antithetical to the Confrontation Clause.

															C

															The State next insists that the Reid rule is necessary to safeguard the truth-finding function of courts because it prevents the selective and misleading introduction of evidence.  See Reid, 19 N. Y. 3d, at 388, 971 N. E. 2d, at 357.  The State relies on this Court’s precedents recognizing the need for sensitivity to “ ‘the legitimate demands of the adversarial system.’ ”  Taylor v. Illinois,

484 U.S. 400, 413 (1988) (quoting United States v. Nobles,

422 U.S. 225, 241 (1975); emphasis deleted).  This argument falls short as well.  Even as it has recognized and reaffirmed the vital truth-seeking function of a trial, the Court has not allowed such considerations to override the rights the Constitution confers upon criminal defendants.

															The State cites a series of cases in which this Court permitted a State to impeach a defendant using evidence that would normally be barred from use at trial.  Brief for Respondent 32 (citing Kansas v. Ventris,

556 U.S. 586 (2009); Harris v. New York,

401 U.S. 222 (1971); Walder v. United States,

347 U.S. 62 (1954)).  None of those cases, however, involved exceptions to constitutional requirements.  Rather, in each case, the Court considered the appropriate scope of a prophylactic rule designed to remedy “a violation that ha[d] already occurred.”  Ventris, 556 U. S., at 593.  For example, the Court distinguished violations of the
 
Fourth Amendment’s guarantee against unreasonable searches or seizures from the prophylactic rule designed to deter violations of that guarantee by excluding the fruits of such searches or seizures from trial.  Id., at 590–591.  Because the prophylactic exclusionary rule is a “deterrent sanction” rather than a “substantive guarantee,” the Court applied a balancing test to allow States to impeach defendants with the fruits of prior
 
Fourth Amendment violations, even though the rule barred the admission of such fruits in the State’s case-in-chief.  Id., at 591 (citing Walder, 347 U. S., at 65).

															In contrast, the Court has not held that defendants can “open the door” to violations of constitutional requirements merely by making evidence relevant to contradict their defense.  Thus, in New Jersey v. Portash,

440 U.S. 450, 458–459 (1979), the Court rejected a State’s effort to impeach a defendant through the introduction of his own coerced testimony.  It did so despite the strong and obvious interest in preventing perjury because the very introduction of the coerced testimony would violate the
 
Fifth Amendment’s provision that “[n]o person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself.”  In view of that guarantee, balancing of interests was “not simply unnecessary,” but “impermissible.”  Portash, 440 U. S., at 459.  The
 
Sixth Amendment speaks with equal clarity: “In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right . . . to be confronted with the witnesses against him.”  It admits no exception for cases in which the trial judge believes unconfronted testimonial hearsay might be reasonably necessary to correct a misleading impression.  Courts may not overlook its command, no matter how noble the motive.  See United States v. Gonzalez-Lopez,

548 U.S. 140, 145 (2006) (“It is true enough that the purpose of the rights set forth in [the Sixth] Amendment is to ensure a fair trial; but it does not follow that the rights can be disregarded so long as the trial is, on the whole, fair”).

															D

															The State warns that a reversal will leave prosecutors without recourse to protect against abuses of the confrontation right.  These concerns are overstated.  State and federal hearsay rules generally preclude all parties from introducing unreliable, out-of-court statements for the truth of the matter asserted.  See, e.g., Fed. Rule Evid. 802.  Even for otherwise admissible evidence, “well-established rules,” such as Federal Rule of Evidence 403, “permit trial judges to exclude evidence if its probative value is outweighed by certain other factors such as unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or potential to mislead the jury.”  Holmes v. South Carolina,

547 U.S. 319, 326 (2006).  If a court admits evidence before its misleading or unfairly prejudicial nature becomes apparent, it generally retains the authority to withdraw it, strike it, or issue a limiting instruction as appropriate.  See, e.g., Fed. Rule Evid. 105; New York State Unified Court System, Guide to New York Evidence Rule 1.13(1) (“Absent undue prejudice to a party, a judge may revisit his or her own evidentiary rulings during trial”).

															Finally, the Court does not decide today the validity of the common-law rule of completeness as applied to testimonial hearsay.  Under that rule, a party “ ‘against whom a part of an utterance has been put in, may in his turn complement it by putting in the remainder.’ ”  Beech Aircraft Corp. v. Rainey,

488 U.S. 153, 171 (1988) (quoting 7 J. Wigmore, Evidence §2113, p. 653 (J. Chadbourn rev. 1978)); see also Fed. Rule Evid. 106.  The parties agree that the rule of completeness does not apply to the facts of this case, as Morris’ plea allocution was not part of any statement that Hemphill introduced.  Whether and under what circumstances that rule might allow the admission of testimonial hearsay against a criminal defendant presents different issues that are not before this Court.[5]

															*  *  *

															The Confrontation Clause requires that the reliability and veracity of the evidence against a criminal defendant be tested by cross-examination, not determined by a trial court.  The trial court’s admission of unconfronted testimonial hearsay over Hemphill’s objection, on the view that it was reasonably necessary to correct Hemphill’s misleading argument, violated that fundamental guarantee.  The judgment of the New York Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
 The State responded that Morris’ plea allocution was not testimonial because it did not “incriminate or point a finger at all against Mr. Hemphill.”  App. 160.  Before this Court, the State does not dispute that the plea allocution was testimonial, and so the Court expresses no view on the matter. 

2
 According to the dissent, Hemphill did not present his constitutional claim below because he “challenged only the misapplication of state law” (i.e., the opening-the-door rule enunciated in People v. Reid, 19 N.Y.3d 382, 971 N.E.2d 353 (2012)) without developing his constitutional objection.  Post, at 4 (opinion of Thomas, J.).  Not so.  Hemphill argued before the Court of Appeals that the Appellate Division’s interpretation of Reid in his case “equates presenting a valid, evidence-based third party defense with misleading the jury, opening the door to testimonial hearsay”—a rule that “unjustifiably undermines the right to Confrontation” for reasons he proceeded to explain.  App. 388.  Thus, Hemphill expressly raised a Confrontation Clause argument and, contrary to the dissent’s contention, offered the Court of Appeals “ ‘the first opportunity’ ” to construe Reid “ ‘in a way which saves [its] constitutionality.’ ”  Post, at 9  (quoting Cardinale v. Louisiana,

394 U.S. 437, 439 (1969)).  The dissent also accuses this Court of “redefin[ing] Reid to be what Hemphill said it was not.”  Post, at 10.  Far from it: This Court accepts the Court of Appeals’ conclusive determination that Reid authorized the admission of testimonial hearsay in this case. 

3
 The Clause binds the States through the
 
Fourteenth Amendment.  Pointer v. Texas,

380 U.S. 400, 403 (1965). 

4
 The Crawford Court defined “testimony” as a “solemn declaration or affirmation made for the purpose of establishing or proving some fact.”  541 U. S., at 51 (internal quotation marks omitted).  “[A]t a minimum,” the Court explained, this includes “prior testimony at a preliminary hearing, before a grand jury, or at a former trial; and . . . policeinterrogations.”  Id., at 68.  Subsequent decisions have expounded on this definition.  See, e.g., Ohio v. Clark,

576 U.S. 237, 244–245 (2015). 

5
 The State also asks this Court to hold the constitutional error in this case harmless beyond a reasonable doubt, see Chapman v. California,

386 U.S. 18, 24 (1967), citing what it calls “substantial independent evidence of [Hemphill’s] guilt,” Brief for Respondent 49.  It offers no reason, however, for the Court to depart from its “general custom of allowing state courts initially to assess the effect of erroneously admitted evidence in light of substantive state criminal law.”  Lilly v. Virginia,

527 U.S. 116, 139 (1999). 


