::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-049
::decision_cite:: 20-603
::decision_name::  Torres v. Texas Department of Public Safety
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–603

															_________________

															LE ROY TORRES, PETITIONER v. TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeals of texas, thirteenth district

															[June 29, 2022]

															Justice Breyer delivered the opinion of the Court.

															The Constitution vests in Congress the power “[t]o raise and support Armies” and “[t]o provide and maintain a Navy.”  Art. I, §8, cls. 1, 12–13.  Pursuant to that authority, Congress enacted a federal law that gives returning veterans the right to reclaim their prior jobs with state employers and authorizes suit if those employers refuse to accommodate them.  See Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA),

38 U. S. C. §4301 et seq.  This case asks whether States may invoke sovereign immunity as a legal defense to block such suits.

															In our view, they cannot.  Upon entering the Union, the States implicitly agreed that their sovereignty would yield to federal policy to build and keep a national military.  States thus gave up their immunity from congressionally authorized suits pursuant to the “ ‘plan of the Convention,’ ” as part of “ ‘the structure of the original Constitution itself.’ ” PennEast Pipeline Co. v. New Jersey, 594 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 14) (quoting Alden v. Maine,

527 U.S. 706, 728 (1999)).

															I

															A

															Congress has “broad and sweeping” power “to raise and support armies.”  United States v. O’Brien,

391 U.S. 367, 377 (1968).  It has long exercised that power to encourage service in the Armed Forces in a variety of ways.  See, e.g., Rumsfeld v. Forum for Academic and Institutional Rights, Inc.,

547 U.S. 47, 58 (2006) (campus recruiting); Johnson v. Robison,

415 U.S. 361, 376 (1974) (educational benefits).  Since before the United States’ entry into World War II, Congress has sought, in particular, to smooth volunteers’ reentry into civilian life by recognizing veterans’ “right to return to civilian employment without adverse effect on . . . career progress” in the federal work force and private employment.  H. R. Rep. No. 105–448, p. 2 (1998); see Selective Training and Service Act of 1940, §§8(b)(A)–(B), (e),

54Stat.
890,
891 (damages remedy against private employers).

															The Vietnam War prompted Congress to extend these protections to employment by States.  Amidst political opposition to the war, “some State and local jurisdictions ha[d ] demonstrated a reluctance, and even an unwillingness, to reemploy” returning servicemembers.  S. Rep.  No. 93–907, p. 110 (1974).  So Congress authorized private damages suits against States to ensure that “veterans who [had] previously held jobs as school teachers, policemen, firemen, and other State, county, and city employees” would not be denied their old jobs as reprisal for their service.  Ibid.  The statute at issue, USERRA, embodies these protections today.

															B

															Petitioner Le Roy Torres enlisted in the Army Reserves in 1989.  In 2007, he was called to active duty and deployed to Iraq.  While serving, Torres was exposed to toxic burn pits, a method of garbage disposal that sets open fire to all manner of trash, human waste, and military equipment.

															Torres received an honorable discharge.  But he returned home with constrictive bronchitis, a respiratory condition that narrowed his airways and made breathing difficult.  These ailments, Torres alleges, changed his life and left him unable to work at his old job as a state trooper.  Torres asked his former employer, respondent Texas Department of Public Safety (Texas), to accommodate his condition by reemploying him in a different role.  Texas refused to do so.

															Torres sued Texas in state court.  He argued that Texas had violated USERRA’s mandate that state employers rehire returning servicemembers, use “reasonable efforts” to accommodate any service-related disability, or find an “equivalent” position (or its “nearest approximation”) where such disability prevents the veteran from holding his prior position.

38 U. S. C. §4313(a)(3).  Texas moved to dismiss the suit by invoking sovereign immunity.  The trial court denied the motion.  A divided intermediate appellate court reversed, stating this Court’s precedents established that Congress could not authorize private suits against nonconsenting States pursuant to its Article I powers except under the Bankruptcy Clause and citing Central Va. Community College v. Katz,

546 U.S. 356 (2006).  See 583 S.W.3d 221, 225–230 (Tex. App. 2018).  The Supreme Court of Texas denied discretionary review.

															After the decision below, this Court decided PennEast, 594 U. S. ___.  There, we recognized that the States had waived their sovereign immunity as to the exercise of the federal eminent domain power under the structure of the Constitution pursuant to the “plan of the Convention.”  See id., at ___ (slip op., at 14).  We then granted Torres’ petition for certiorari to decide whether, in light of that intervening decision, USERRA’s damages remedy against state employers is constitutional.

															II

															Congress enacted USERRA as an exercise of its power “[t]o raise and support Armies” and “[t]o provide and maintain a Navy.”  U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cls. 12–13.  The question before us is whether the Constitution allows Congress to enforce these federal reemployment protections by authorizing private litigation against noncompliant state employers that do not wish to consent to suit.

															A

															The Constitution forged a Union, but it also protected the sovereign prerogatives of States within our government.  Generally speaking, “the States entered the federal system with their sovereignty,” including their sovereign immunity, “intact.”  Blatchford v. Native Village of Noatak,

501 U.S. 775, 779 (1991).  Basic tenets of sovereign immunity teach that courts may not ordinarily hear a suit brought by any person against a nonconsenting State.  See ibid.

															But States still remain subject to suit in certain circumstances.  States may, of course, consent to suit.  See Sossamon v. Texas,

563 U.S. 277, 284 (2011).  Congress may also enact laws abrogating their immunity under the
 
Fourteenth Amendment.  See Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer,

427 U.S. 445, 456 (1976).  And, as relevant here, States may be sued if they agreed their sovereignty would yield as part of the “plan of the Convention,” PennEast, 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15)—that is, if “the structure of the original Constitution itself ” reflects a waiver of States’ sovereign immunity, Alden, 527 U. S., at 728.  “[A]ctions do not offend state sovereignty” if “the States consented” to them “at the founding.”  PennEast, 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 23).

															Alexander Hamilton described three circumstances where the “plan of the Convention” implied that the States waived their sovereign immunity: “where the Constitution in express terms granted an exclusive authority to the Union; where it granted in one instance an authority to the Union and in another prohibited the States from exercising the like authority; and where it granted an authority to the Union, to which a similar authority in the States would be absolutely and totally contradictory and repugnant.”  The Federalist No. 32, p. 200 (J. Cooke ed. 1961) (emphasis in original); see id., No. 81, at 548–549 (A. Hamilton).

															Consistent with these principles, this Court has found structural waiver as to suits between States, in South Dakota v. North Carolina,

192 U.S. 286 (1904), and suits by the United States against a State, in United States v. Texas,

143 U.S. 621 (1892).  The States, we said, must have recognized that these waivers of immunity from suit were “a necessary feature of the formation of a more perfect Union” and thus “inherent in the constitutional plan.”  Principality of Monaco v. Mississippi,

292 U.S. 313, 329 (1934).  The alternative to consenting to litigation between sovereigns, after all, could be civil war.

															A century later, in Central Va. Community College v. Katz,

546 U.S. 356, the Court recognized another structural waiver.  We held that States could not assert sovereign immunity to block suits by private parties pursuant to federal bankruptcy laws.  Id., at 359.  There, too, we based our holding on the constitutional structure.  We noted the text’s insistence on “uniform Laws on the subject of Bankruptcies,” U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl. 4, the Framers’ concerns about States’ passing patchwork legislation and refusing to discharge the debts of noncitizens (as had happened under the Articles of Confederation), and the history of habeas laws related to bankruptcy.  See 546 U. S., at 368–377.  All that evidence led us to conclude that, by ratifying the Constitution, the States had agreed that their sovereignty would yield to ensure the effectiveness of national bankruptcy policy.  See id., at 379.

															For several years, both before and after Katz, the Court declined to acknowledge additional waivers of sovereign immunity under Congress’ Article I powers or to find Article I authority to abrogate immunity.  See, e.g., Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida,

517 U.S. 44 (1996); Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Ed. Expense Bd. v. College Savings Bank,

527 U.S. 627 (1999).  Two Terms ago, we even described Katz’s analysis as “good for one clause only,” suggesting we would not find further waivers under Article I.  Allen v. Cooper, 589 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 9) (hyphens omitted).

															Last Term, in PennEast Pipeline Co. v. New Jersey, 594 U. S. ___, we considered whether Congress could, pursuant to its eminent domain power, authorize private parties to sue States to enforce federally approved condemnations necessary to build interstate pipelines.  We held that “when the States entered the federal system, they renounced their right to the ‘highest dominion in the[ir] lands,’ ” meaning they agreed their “eminent domain power would yield to that of the Federal Government.”  Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 15–16) (quoting Cherokee Nation v. Southern Kansas R. Co.,

135 U.S. 641, 656 (1890)).  Congress could therefore authorize private actions against States.

															PennEast defined the test for structural waiver as whether the federal power at issue is “complete in itself, and the States consented to the exercise of that power—in its entirety—in the plan of the Convention.”  594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 22) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted).  Where that is so, the States implicitly agreed that their sovereignty “would yield to that of the Federal Government ‘so far as is necessary to the enjoyment of the powers conferred upon it by the Constitution.’ ”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 16) (quoting Kohl v. United States,

91 U.S. 367, 372 (1876)).  By committing not to “thwart” or frustrate federal policy, the States accepted upon ratification that their “consent,” including to suit, could “never be a condition precedent to” Congress’ chosen exercise of its authority.  594 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 8, 10) (internal quotation marks omitted).  The States simply “have no immunity left to waive or abrogate.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 22).

															B

															Congress’ power to build and maintain the Armed Forces fits PennEast’s test.  The Constitution’s text, its history, and this Court’s precedents show that “when the States entered the federal system, they renounced their right” to interfere with national policy in this area.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 15).

															For one thing, the Constitution’s text, across several Articles, strongly suggests a complete delegation of authority to the Federal Government to provide for the common defense.  Unlike most of the powers given to the National Government, the Constitution spells out the war powers not in a single, simple phrase, but in many broad, interrelated provisions.  The Preamble makes the “common defence” one of the document’s central projects.  Article I gives Congress authority to “provide for th[at] common Defence” in six numbered paragraphs: to “declare War”; “raise and support Armies”; “provide and maintain a Navy”; “make Rules” for the Armed Forces; “provide for calling forth the Militia”; and “provide for [their] organizing, arming, and disciplining.”  §8, cls. 1, 11–16.  Article II makes the President the “Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States.”  §2, cl. 1.  And the Federal Government is charged with “protect[ing] each” State “against Invasion.”  Art. IV, §4.

															The Constitution also divests the States of like power.  States may not “engage in War, unless actually invaded,” “enter into any Treaty,” or “keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace.”  Art. I, §10, cls. 1, 3.  States retain a role in “the Appointment of the Officers” to and the “training [of] the Militia,” but that delegation is strictly cabined.  Art. I, §8, cl. 16.  States must do so “according to the discipline prescribed by Congress.”  Ibid.  These substantial limitations on state authority, together with the assignment of sweeping power to the Federal Government, provide strong evidence that the structure of the Constitution prevents States from frustrating national objectives in this field.

															History teaches the same lesson.  “When the Framers met in Philadelphia in the summer of 1787, they sought to create a cohesive national sovereign in response to the failings of the Articles of Confederation.”  PennEast, 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 22).  The Founders recognized, first and foremost, “that the confederation produced no security agai[nst] foreign invasion; congress not being permitted to prevent a war nor to support it by the[ir] own authority,” because Congress lacked the power to marshal and maintain a fighting force “fit for defence.”  1 Records of the Federal Convention of 1787, p. 19 (M. Farrand ed. 1966) (Edmund Randolph opening remarks) (alterations in original).

															“[T]he want of power in Congress to raise an army” had left the National Government “dependen[t] upon the States” to supply military forces via a system of quotas and requisition that had nearly cost the Nation victory in the Revolutionary War.  Selective Draft Law Cases,

245 U.S. 366, 381 (1918).  George Washington warned from the battlefield that, unless Congress is “vested with powers by the several States” to raise an army, “our cause is lost.”  Letter to J. Jones (May 31, 1780), in 8 Writings of George Washington 304 (W. Ford ed. 1890).  In short, “[t]he experience of the whole country, during the revolutionary war, established, to the satisfaction of every statesman, the utter inadequacy and impropriety of this system of requisition.”  3 J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States §1174, p. 65 (1833) (Story).  The need to fix that failing by establishing a strong national power to raise and maintain a military was one of the “recognized necessities” for calling the Constitutional Convention.  Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S., at 381.

															The Constitution, by design, worked “an entire change in the first principles of the system.”  The Federalist No. 23, at 148 (A. Hamilton).  The Framers gave Congress direct power over the “formation, direction or support of the NATIONAL FORCES.”  Ibid. (emphasis in original).  So “general and indefinite” were these powers vis-à-vis the States that “[o]bjections were made against” them as “subversive of the state governments,” which retained “no control on congress” under the new arrangement.  3 Story §§1176, 1177, at 67.  Some state conventions pitched proposals to limit the reach of Congress’ war powers, but those amendments “die[d] away.”  Id., §1186, at 74.  The States ultimately ratified the Constitution knowing that their sovereignty would give way to national military policy.

															Consistent with that structural understanding, Congress has, since the founding era, directed raising and maintaining the national military, including at the expense of state sovereignty.  For instance, early Congresses established military bonuses to reward service, even requiring Virginia to give land to some Revolutionary War officers.  See Act of Aug. 10, 1790,

1Stat.
182.  Could Virginia have refused to go along?  We do not think so.

															As President Lincoln reflected while the Civil War raged: The federal power to raise and maintain a military “ ‘is given fully, completely, unconditionally.  It is not a power to raise armies if State authorities consent; . . . it is a power to raise and support armies given to Congress by the Constitution, without an “if.” ’ ”  Lichter v. United States,

334 U.S. 742, 757, n. 4 (1948) (quoting 9 J. Nicolay & J. Hay, Complete Works of Abraham Lincoln 75–77 (1894)).

															An unbroken line of precedents supports the same conclusion: Congress may legislate at the expense of traditional state sovereignty to raise and support the Armed Forces.  During the Civil War, this Court rejected a State’s attempt to retrieve, through habeas corpus, a deserted soldier “held in the custody of a recruiting officer of the United States.”  Tarble’s Case, 13 Wall. 397, 398 (1872).  The “National government[’s] . . . power ‘to raise and support armies’ ” cannot be “question[ed by] any State authority,” we said.  Id., at 408.  In Stewart v. Kahn, 11 Wall. 493 (1871), the Court approved a federal statute that, among other provisions, tolled state statutes of limitations in state courts for suits against soldiers while they were in service of the Union.  The Court described Congress’ authority as “carr[ying] with it inherently the power” to “remedy” state efforts to frustrate national aims; objections sounding in ordinary federalism principles were “untenable.”  Id., at 507.

															In the early 20th century, the Court again rejected state-sovereignty objections in this area, this time to the draft.  See Selective Draft Law Cases, 245 U. S., at 381.  We wrote that Congress’ authority to raise armies could not be qualified or restricted by the States because the Constitution “manifestly intended to give . . . all” such power to the Federal Government and “leave none to the States.”  Ibid.

															Modern examples illustrate the same structural point.  In United States v. Oregon,

366 U.S. 643, 644–649 (1961), this Court rejected a State’s
 
Tenth Amendment challenge to a federal law providing that, when certain veterans die without heirs, their property distributes to veterans’ facilities rather than escheating to the State.  Even though estate and property law are areas “normally left to the States,” the Court explained that those background assumptions are displaced when it comes to Congress’ “constitutional powers to raise armies and navies.”  Id., at 648–649.  When, years later, the Court adopted a broader view of state sovereignty under the
 
Tenth Amendment, the Court was careful to clarify that “[n]othing we say in this opinion addresses the scope of Congress’ authority under its war power.”  National League of Cities v. Usery,

426 U.S. 833, 854–855, n. 18 (1976), overruled on other grounds, Garcia v. San Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority,

469 U.S. 528 (1985).

															Nor is the Federal Government’s power limited to the “context of an actual war,” as we held more recently in Perpich v. Department of Defense,

496 U.S. 334, 349 (1990).  After the Governors of California and Maine refused to allow their States’ National Guard members to be sent on training missions in Honduras, Congress eliminated the longstanding requirement that the military obtain consent from the relevant Governor before transferring National Guard members to active military service.  Id., at 346.  The Court rejected the notion that so holding “nullif[ied] an important state power,” instead “recogniz[ing] the supremacy of federal power in the area of military affairs.”  Id., at 351.

															The lesson we draw from these cases is that “ ‘[t]he power to wage war is the power to wage war successfully.’ ”  Lichter, 334 U. S., at 780 (quoting address by C. Hughes, War Powers Under the Constitution (Sept. 5, 1917)).  The Framers “ ‘had emerged from a long struggle which had taught them the weakness of a mere confederation,’ ” so “ ‘they established a Union which could fight with the strength of one people under one government entrusted with the common defence.’ ”  Ibid.  Under our constitutional order, States may not place any “ ‘limitations inconsistent’ ” with Congress’ power because “ ‘every resource of the people must be at command.’ ”  Ibid.  In short, the States agreed to “dives[t]” themselves of “the traditional diplomatic and military tools that . . . sovereigns possess”—to sacrifice their sovereignty for the common defense.  Franchise Tax Bd. of Cal. v. Hyatt, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 13).

															It follows that Congress’ power to build and maintain a national military is “complete in itself.”  PennEast, 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 22) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Text, history, and precedent show the States agreed that their sovereignty would “yield . . . so far as is necessary” to national policy to raise and maintain the military.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 16) (internal quotation marks omitted).  And because States committed themselves not to “thwart” the exercise of this federal power, “[t]he consent of a State,” including to suit, “can never be a condition precedent to [Congress’] enjoyment” of it.  Id., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 8, 10) (internal quotation marks omitted).  We consequently hold that, as part of the plan of the Convention, the States waived their immunity under Congress’ Article I power “[t]o raise and support Armies” and “provide and maintain a Navy.”  §8, cls. 12–13.

															III

															Neither Texas nor the dissent persuades us otherwise.  Texas asserts that “Congress cannot abrogate state sovereign immunity through the exercise of Article I powers.”  Brief for Respondent 33.  But, as explained, “congressional abrogation is not the only means of subjecting States to suit. . . . States can also be sued if they have consented to suit in the plan of the Convention.”  PennEast, 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15).  We recognize that waiver today, as we have before in PennEast and Katz.

															The dissent (but not Texas) adds that Congress needed to speak more clearly to subject Texas to suit because USERRA could be read to incorporate state law, perhaps including Texas’ immunity laws.  See post, at 5–7 (opinion of Thomas, J.).  But USERRA’s text is clear: Congress sought to authorize suits against state employers.  The very provision to which the dissent cites is entitled “Enforcement of rights with respect to a State or private employer.”

38 U. S. C. §4323.  USERRA elsewhere expressly “supersedes any State law . . . that reduces, limits, or eliminates in any manner any right or benefit provided by this chapter, including the establishment of additional prerequisites to the exercise of any such right or the receipt of any such benefit.”  §4302(b).  Congress’ clarification that suits proceed “in a State court of competent jurisdiction in accordance with the laws of the State” merely addresses the fact that USERRA suits must be brought in state (rather than federal) court.  §4323(b)(2). Under Supremacy Clause principles, Texas courts may not enforce contrary state laws to block these suits.  Cf. Testa v. Katt,

330 U.S. 386, 390–394 (1947).

															Texas and the dissent go on to suggest that the fact that an area of law “is under the exclusive control of the Federal Government” is not alone sufficient to do away with sovereign immunity.  Seminole Tribe, 517 U. S., at 72; see post, at 11–12.  We agree.  In Seminole Tribe, we held that Congress could not rely on its Article I commerce powers to abrogate state sovereign immunity simply because that power was exclusive.  517 U. S., at 72.  But later, in PennEast, we found that the federal eminent domain power was “ ‘complete in itself,’ ” and held that was enough to find a waiver of sovereign immunity in the constitutional structure.  594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 22).  It thus matters to the analysis that federal regulation of commerce (at issue in Seminole Tribe) involves goods that, before they travel between States or outside a tribe, are subject to regulation by a sovereign other than the Federal Government (a State or tribe).  That feature of commerce arguably makes the federal regulatory power less than “complete.”  The dissent takes issue with this “complete in itself ” inquiry.  See post, at 21–29.  But its quarrel lies with PennEast, which used the formulation we rely upon today.

															In any event, the text, history, and precedent we have described indicate that an assertion of state sovereignty to frustrate federal prerogatives to raise and maintain military forces would be strongly “contradictory and repugnant” to the constitutional order.  The Federalist No. 32, at 200 (A. Hamilton) (emphasis in original).  Neither Seminole Tribe nor the cases that followed it, such as Florida Prepaid,

527 U.S. 627, considered federal powers that give rise to these same structural inferences.  None of those powers (e.g., Indian commerce, interstate commerce, or intellectual property) is expressly denied to the States, or operates for the benefit of the entire Nation, or proves comparably essential to the survival of the Union—itself a foundational purpose for drafting the Constitution.  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 30–31.  These factors, taken together, lead us to conclude that the results in PennEast and Katz, not dicta in Seminole Tribe, control this case.

															The dissent makes two further points.  First, it quotes Alden v. Maine for the proposition that “ ‘the powers delegated to Congress under Article I of the United States Constitution do not include the power to subject nonconsenting States to private suits for damages in state courts.’ ”  Post, at 1, 8–9 (quoting 527 U. S., at 712; emphasis deleted).  But the dissent would give this sentence more weight than it can bear.  The quoted passage appears in the introduction to the Court’s opinion, and it refers summarily to Article I’s general delegations (i.e., Congress’ broad authority under the Supremacy Clause and the Necessary and Proper Clause).  See Alden, 527 U. S., at 712; see also id., at 731–733 (discussing same).  Alden did not, in this sentence or elsewhere, suggest that there were no exceptions under which Congress could authorize private suits against States.  In fact, Alden said the opposite.  The Court expressly embraced “ ‘the postulate that States . . . shall be immune from suits, without their consent, save where there has been “a surrender of this immunity in the plan of the convention.” ’ ” Id., at 730 (quoting Principality of Monaco, 292 U. S., at 322–323, in turn quoting The Federalist No. 81; emphasis added).  So, Alden made clear: “In exercising its Article I powers Congress may subject the States to private suits in their own courts . . . if there is ‘compelling evidence’ that the States were required to surrender this power to Congress pursuant to the Constitutional design.”  527 U. S., at 730–731 (quoting Blatchford, 501 U. S., at 781; emphasis added).  As we have discussed, PennEast and Katz recognize such exceptions as to the federal eminent domain power and the Bankruptcy Clause.  And they establish the test for what constitutes “compelling evidence” of structural waiver.

															The dissent next implies that PennEast and Katz create special rules regarding waivers of sovereign immunity in federal courts that do not apply in state courts.  See post, at 9–10, and n. 4, 16–17, and n. 7.  But those opinions’ reasoning about our constitutional structure is not so limited, as Alden reflects.  Alden held that Article I did not, in general, give Congress the power to set aside States’ immunity from suit in their own courts, despite the
 
Eleventh Amendment’s silence on the subject of state courts.  (The Amendment’s text refers only to federal courts—“The Judicial power of the United States.”)  Like our other state sovereign immunity cases, Alden “understood the
 
Eleventh Amendment to stand not so much for what it says, but for the presupposition of our constitutional structure which it confirms.”  Blatchford, 501 U. S., at 779; see Alden, 527 U. S., at 755 (explaining its holding is “implicit in the constitutional principle of state sovereign immunity”).  It follows that a waiver pursuant to the plan of the Convention, as we found in PennEast and Katz, displaces the background principles of state sovereign immunity wherever those suits proceed.  Neither Alden nor any other case holds to the contrary.

															The dissent would leave us with a constitutional structure that allows Congress to authorize private suits against States only by abrogation under the
 
Fourteenth Amendment, by legislation under the Bankruptcy Clause (but only for suits in federal courts), or by delegation of the federal eminent domain power (but, again, only in federal courts).  The logic of that constitutional design is anything but clear.

															Texas tries another tack to distinguish PennEast and Katz, focusing on a technical aspect of those cases.  Texas says that both eminent domain and bankruptcy involved in rem proceedings, which are “ ‘inextricably intertwined’ ” with the exercise of those federal powers.  See Brief for Respondent 40 (quoting PennEast, 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17)); see also post, at 23–24.  The proceeding before us, Texas adds, is not in rem or so intertwined.  We agree, of course, that PennEast discussed the close connection between the exercise of eminent domain and condemnation actions.  See 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17); see also Katz, 546 U. S., at 369–372.  But we read PennEast as resting on a broader point: The Federal Government’s eminent domain power is complete, such that no State may frustrate its exercise by claiming immunity to forestall the transfer of property.  And that conclusion applies equally to Congress’ powers to raise and maintain the military.

															Texas further argues that Congress cannot subject it to suit under USERRA because there is no founding-era history of similar litigation against States.  See Brief for Respondent 25.  But PennEast did not require any such history, as the dissent acknowledges.  594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19) (citing Texas, 143 U. S., at 646); see post, at 14, n. 6.  Again, in PennEast, we considered the inferences that flow from our constitutional structure and asked whether States may, consistent with that structure, claim immunity to frustrate federal objectives.  And again, answering that question here, we find that the States waived their immunity under Article I, §8, cls. 12 and 13.

															Texas’ contrary view would permit States to thwart national military readiness.  We need not stray from the statute at hand to see the danger of this approach.  If a State—or even 25 States—decided to protest a war by refusing to employ returning servicemembers, Congress, on Texas’ telling, would be powerless to authorize private reinstatement suits against those States.  The potentially debilitating effect on national security would not matter.

															We think it does matter for a simple reason.  Text, history, and precedent show that the States, in coming together to form a Union, agreed to sacrifice their sovereign immunity for the good of the common defense.

															*  *  *

															We consequently reverse the judgment of the Texas Court of Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

															

															It is so ordered.
													
