::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-004
::decision_cite:: 20-637
::decision_name::  Hemphill v. New York
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–637

															_________________

															DARRELL HEMPHILL, PETITIONER v. NEW YORK

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeals of new york

															[January 20, 2022]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Kavanaugh joins, concurring.

															I agree with the Court’s conclusion that—assuming Morris’s statement was testimonial—its admission violated the Confrontation Clause of the
 
Sixth Amendment.  I write separately to address the conditions under which a defendant can be deemed to have validly waived the right to confront adverse witnesses.

															“The question of a waiver of a federally guaranteed constitutional right is, of course, a federal question controlled by federal law.”  Brookhart v. Janis,

384 U.S. 1, 4 (1966).  Waiver consists in the “intentional relinquishment or abandonment of a known right or privilege.”  Johnson v. Zerbst,

304 U.S. 458, 464 (1938).  But a valid waiver need not be express.  Implied waiver can be established through “ ‘a course of conduct’ ” even “absent formal or express statements of waiver.”  Berghuis v. Thompkins,

560 U.S. 370, 383–384 (2010) (quoting North Carolina v. Butler,

441 U.S. 369, 373 (1979)).  In the prototypical case of implied waiver, the relevant course of conduct signals an intention to relinquish the right at issue.  But “[a]s a general proposition, the law can presume that an individual who, with a full understanding of his or her rights, acts in a manner inconsistent with their exercise has made a deliberate choice to relinquish the protection those rights afford.”  Berghuis, 560 U. S., at 385.

															Our precedents establish that a defendant can impliedly waive the
 
Sixth Amendment right to confront adverse witnesses through conduct.[1]*  The cause of implied waiver can be a “failure to object to the offending evidence” in accordance with the procedural standards fixed by state law. Melendez-Diaz v. Massachusetts,

557 U.S. 305, 314, n. 3 (2009).  But implied waiver can also occur when a defendant engages in a course of conduct that is incompatible with a demand to confront adverse witnesses.  In Illinois v. Allen,

397 U.S. 337 (1970), for instance, we held that a defendant may relinquish his right to confront adverse witnesses by “conducting himself in a manner so disorderly, disruptive, and disrespectful of the court that his trial cannot be carried on with him in the courtroom.”  Id., at  343.

															The problem with the New York rule at issue in this case is that its application is predicated on neither conduct evincing intent to relinquish the right of confrontation nor action inconsistent with the assertion of that right.  The introduction of evidence that is misleading as to the real facts does not, in itself, indicate a decision regarding whether any given declarant should be subjected to cross-examination.  Nor is that kind of maneuver inconsistent with the assertion of the right to confront a declarant whose out-of-court statements could potentially set the record straight.

															There are other circumstances, however, under which a defendant’s introduction of evidence may be regarded as an implicit waiver of the right to object to the prosecution’s use of evidence that might otherwise be barred by the Confrontation Clause.  Under the traditional rule of completeness, if a party introduces all or part of a declarant’s statement, the opposing party is entitled to introduce the remainder of that statement or another related statement by the same declarant, regardless of whether the statement is testimonial or there was a prior opportunity to confront the declarant.  See, e.g., 1 B. Bergman, N. Hollander, & T. Duncan, Wharton’s Criminal Evidence §4:10 (15th ed. 1997) (explaining rule of completeness and collecting cases); Fed. Rule Evid. 106 (partially codifying rule of completeness with respect to writings and recorded statements).

															The rule of completeness fits comfortably within the concept of implied waiver.  By introducing part or all of a statement made by an unavailable declarant, a defendant has made a knowing and voluntary decision to permit that declarant to appear as an unconfronted witness.  As a result, the defendant cannot consistently maintain that the remainder of the declarant’s statement or the declarant’s other statements on the same subject should not be admitted due to the impossibility of cross-examining that declarant.  The defendant’s decision to present the statement of an unavailable declarant is inconsistent with the simultaneous assertion of the
 
Sixth Amendment right to subject that declarant to cross-examination.

															Analogous logic governs the
 
Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination.  As our precedent makes clear, when an accused takes the stand, he implicitly “ ‘determines the area of disclosure and therefore of inquiry’ ” and thus “cannot reasonably claim that the
 
Fifth Amendment gives him . . . an immunity from cross-examination on the matters he has himself put into dispute.”  Brown v. United States,

356 U.S. 148, 155–156 (1958).

															The
 
Sixth Amendment right to confrontation should be analyzed no differently.  When a defendant introduces the statement of an unavailable declarant on a given subject, he commits himself to the trier of fact’s examination of what the declarant has to say on that subject.  The remainder of the declarant’s statement or statements—and any other statements by the same declarant on the same subject—are fair game.  The defendant cannot reasonably claim otherwise, given his tactical choice to put the declarant’s statements on the relevant subject in contention despite his unavailability for cross-examination.  And that is true regardless of whether the defendant attempts to “invoke” his right to confront an unavailable declarant after introducing his out-of-court statements.  Having made the choice to introduce the statements of an unavailable declarant, a defendant cannot be heard to complain that he cannot cross-examine that declarant with respect to the remainder of that statement or the declarant’s related statements on the same subject.

															*  *  *

															The Court emphasizes that its decision does not call into question the rule of completeness or other principles that may support implied waiver of the confrontation right.  On this understanding, I join the opinion of the Court in full.
Notes
1
* The conduct relevant to waiver may be the defendant’s or that of trial counsel.  As a rule, for decisions “pertaining to the conduct of the trial, the defendant is ‘deemed bound by the acts of his lawyer-agent’ ” and charged with the knowledge of trial counsel. New York v. Hill,

528 U.S. 110, 115 (2000) (quoting Link v. Wabash R. Co.,

370 U.S. 626, 634 (1962)).  The exceptions to this rule are few, and they do not encompass decisions regarding what arguments to pursue at trial.  See Hill, 528 U. S., at 115. 


