::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-013
::decision_cite:: 20-843
::decision_name::  New York State Rifle & Pistol Association, Inc. v. Bruen
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–843

															_________________

															New York State Rifle & Pistol Association, Inc., et al., PETITIONERS v. Kevin P. Bruen, in his official capacity as Superintendent of New York State Police, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 23, 2022]

															

															Justice Alito, concurring.

															I join the opinion of the Court in full but add the following comments in response to the dissent.

															I

															Much of the dissent seems designed to obscure the specific question that the Court has decided, and therefore it may be helpful to provide a succinct summary of what we have actually held.  In District of Columbia v. Heller,

554 U.S. 570 (2008), the Court concluded that the
 
Second Amendment protects the right to keep a handgun in the home for self-defense.  Heller found that the Amendment codified a preexisting right and that this right was regarded at the time of the Amendment’s adoption as rooted in “ ‘the natural right of resistance and self-preservation.’ ”  Id., at 594.  “[T]he inherent right of self-defense,” Heller explained, is “central to the
 
Second Amendment right.”  Id., at 628.

															Although Heller concerned the possession of a handgun in the home, the key point that we decided was that “the people,” not just members of the “militia,” have the right to use a firearm to defend themselves.  And because many people face a serious risk of lethal violence when they venture outside their homes, the
 
Second Amendment was understood at the time of adoption to apply under those circumstances.  The Court’s exhaustive historical survey establishes that point very clearly, and today’s decision therefore holds that a State may not enforce a law, like New York’s Sullivan Law, that effectively prevents its law-abiding residents from carrying a gun for this purpose.

															That is all we decide.  Our holding decides nothing about who may lawfully possess a firearm or the requirements that must be met to buy a gun.  Nor does it decide anything about the kinds of weapons that people may possess.  Nor have we disturbed anything that we said in Heller or McDonald v. Chicago,

561 U.S. 742 (2010), about restrictions that may be imposed on the possession or carrying of guns.

															In light of what we have actually held, it is hard to see what legitimate purpose can possibly be served by most of the dissent’s lengthy introductory section.  See post, at 1–8 (opinion of Breyer, J.).  Why, for example, does the dissent think it is relevant to recount the mass shootings that have occurred in recent years?  Post, at 4–5.  Does the dissent think that laws like New York’s prevent or deter such atrocities?  Will a person bent on carrying out a mass shooting be stopped if he knows that it is illegal to carry a handgun outside the home?  And how does the dissent account for the fact that one of the mass shootings near the top of its list took place in Buffalo?  The New York law at issue in this case obviously did not stop that perpetrator.

															What is the relevance of statistics about the use of guns to commit suicide?  See post, at 5–6.  Does the dissent think that a lot of people who possess guns in their homes will be stopped or deterred from shooting themselves if they cannot lawfully take them outside?

															The dissent cites statistics about the use of guns in domestic disputes, see post, at 5, but it does not explain why these statistics are relevant to the question presented in this case.  How many of the cases involving the use of a gun in a domestic dispute occur outside the home, and how many are prevented by laws like New York’s?

															The dissent cites statistics on children and adolescents killed by guns, see post, at 1, 4, but what does this have to do with the question whether an adult who is licensed to possess a handgun may be prohibited from carrying it outside the home?  Our decision, as noted, does not expand the categories of people who may lawfully possess a gun, and federal law generally forbids the possession of a handgun by a person who is under the age of 18, 18 U. S. C. §§922(x)(2)–(5), and bars the sale of a handgun to anyone under the age of 21, §§922(b)(1), (c)(1).[1]

															The dissent cites the large number of guns in private hands—nearly 400 million—but it does not explain what this statistic has to do with the question whether a person who already has the right to keep a gun in the home for self-defense is likely to be deterred from acquiring a gun by the knowledge that the gun cannot be carried outside the home.  See post, at 3.  And while the dissent seemingly thinks that the ubiquity of guns and our country’s high level of gun violence provide reasons for sustaining the New York law, the dissent appears not to understand that it is these very facts that cause law-abiding citizens to feel the need to carry a gun for self-defense.

															No one apparently knows how many of the 400 million privately held guns are in the hands of criminals, but there can be little doubt that many muggers and rapists are armed and are undeterred by the Sullivan Law.  Each year, the New York City Police Department (NYPD) confiscates thousands of guns,[2] and it is fair to assume that the number of guns seized is a fraction of the total number held unlawfully.  The police cannot disarm every person who acquires a gun for use in criminal activity; nor can they provide bodyguard protection for the State’s nearly 20 million residents or the 8.8 million people who live in New York City.  Some of these people live in high-crime neighborhoods.  Some must traverse dark and dangerous streets in order to reach their homes after work or other evening activities.  Some are members of groups whose members feel especially vulnerable.  And some of these people reasonably believe that unless they can brandish or, if necessary, use a handgun in the case of attack, they may be murdered, raped, or suffer some other serious injury.

															Ordinary citizens frequently use firearms to protect themselves from criminal attack.  According to survey data, defensive firearm use occurs up to 2.5 million times per year.  Brief for Law Enforcement Groups et al. as Amici Curiae 5.  A Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report commissioned by former President Barack Obama reviewed the literature surrounding firearms use and noted that “[s]tudies that directly assessed the effect of actual defensive uses of guns . . . have found consistently lower injury rates among gun-using crime victims compared with victims who used other self-protective strategies.”  Institute of Medicine and National Research Council, Priorities for Research To Reduce the Threat of Firearm-Related Violence 15–16 (2013) (referenced in Brief for Independent Women’s Law Center as Amicus Curiae 19–20).

															Many of the amicus briefs filed in this case tell the story of such people.  Some recount incidents in which a potential victim escaped death or serious injury only because carrying a gun for self-defense was allowed in the jurisdiction where the incident occurred.  Here are two examples.  One night in 1987, Austin Fulk, a gay man from Arkansas, “was chatting with another man in a parking lot when four gay bashers charged them with baseball bats and tire irons.  Fulk’s companion drew his pistol from under the seat of his car, brandished it at the attackers, and fired a single shot over their heads, causing them to flee and saving the would-be victims from serious harm.”  Brief for DC Project Foundation et al. as Amici Curiae 31 (footnote omitted).

															On July 7, 2020, a woman was brutally assaulted in the parking lot of a fast food restaurant in Jefferson City, Tennessee.  Her assailant slammed her to the ground and began to drag her around while strangling her.  She was saved when a bystander who was lawfully carrying a pistol pointed his gun at the assailant, who then stopped the assault and the assailant was arrested.  Ibid. (citing C. Wethington, Jefferson City Police: Legally Armed Good Samaritan Stops Assault, ABC News 6, WATE.com (July 9, 2020), https://www.wate.com/news/local-news/jefferson-city-police-legally-armed-good-samaritan-stops-assault/).

															In other incidents, a law-abiding person was driven to violate the Sullivan Law because of fear of victimization and as a result was arrested, prosecuted, and incarcerated.  See Brief for Black Attorneys of Legal Aid et al. as Amici Curiae 22–25.

															Some briefs were filed by members of groups whose members feel that they have special reasons to fear attacks.  See Brief for Asian Pacific American Gun Owners Association as Amicus Curiae; Brief for DC Project Foundation et al. as Amici Curiae; Brief for Black Guns Matter et al. as Amici Curiae; Brief for Independent Women’s Law Center as Amicus Curiae; Brief for National African American Gun Association, Inc., as Amicus Curiae.

															I reiterate: All that we decide in this case is that the
 
Second Amendment protects the right of law-abiding people to carry a gun outside the home for self-defense and that the Sullivan Law, which makes that virtually impossible for most New Yorkers, is unconstitutional.

															II

															This brings me to Part II–B of the dissent, post, at 11–21, which chastises the Court for deciding this case without a trial and factual findings about just how hard it is for a law-abiding New Yorker to get a carry permit.  The record before us, however, tells us everything we need on this score.  At argument, New York’s solicitor general was asked about an ordinary person who works at night and must walk through dark and crime-infested streets to get home.  Tr. of Oral Arg. 66–67.  The solicitor general was asked whether such a person would be issued a carry permit if she pleaded: “[T]here have been a lot of muggings in this area, and I am scared to death.”  Id., at 67.  The solicitor general’s candid answer was “in general,” no.  Ibid.  To get a permit, the applicant would have to show more—for example, that she had been singled out for attack.  Id., at 65; see also id., at 58.  A law that dictates that answer violates the
 
Second Amendment.

															III

															My final point concerns the dissent’s complaint that the Court relies too heavily on history and should instead approve the sort of “means-end” analysis employed in this case by the Second Circuit.  Under that approach, a court, in most cases, assesses a law’s burden on the
 
Second Amendment right and the strength of the State’s interest in imposing the challenged restriction.  See post, at 20.  This mode of analysis places no firm limits on the ability of judges to sustain any law restricting the possession or use of a gun.  Two examples illustrate the point.

															The first is the Second Circuit’s decision in a case the Court decided two Terms ago, New York State Rifle & Pistol Assn., Inc. v. City of New York, 590 U. S. ___ (2020).  The law in that case affected New York City residents who had been issued permits to keep a gun in the home for self- defense.  The city recommended that these permit holders practice at a range to ensure that they are able to handle their guns safely, but the law prohibited them from taking their guns to any range other than the seven that were spread around the city’s five boroughs.  Even if such a person unloaded the gun, locked it in the trunk of a car, and drove to the nearest range, that person would violate the law if the nearest range happened to be outside city limits.  The Second Circuit held that the law was constitutional, concluding, among other things, that the restriction was substantially related to the city’s interests in public safety and crime prevention.  See New York State Rifle & Pistol Assn., Inc. v. New York, 883 F.3d 45, 62–64 (2018).  But after we agreed to review that decision, the city repealed the law and admitted that it did not actually have any beneficial effect on public safety.  See N. Y. Penal Law Ann. §400.00(6) (West Cum. Supp. 2022); Suggestion of Mootness in New York State Rifle & Pistol Assn., Inc. v. City of New York, O. T. 2019, No. 18–280, pp. 5–7.

															Exhibit two is the dissent filed in Heller by Justice Breyer, the author of today’s dissent.  At issue in Heller was an ordinance that made it impossible for any District of Columbia resident to keep a handgun in the home for self-defense.  See 554 U. S., at 574–575.  Even the respondent, who carried a gun on the job while protecting federal facilities, did not qualify.  Id., at 575–576.  The District of Columbia law was an extreme outlier; only a few other jurisdictions in the entire country had similar laws.  Nevertheless, Justice Breyer’s dissent, while accepting for the sake of argument that the
 
Second Amendment protects the right to keep a handgun in the home, concluded, based on essentially the same test that today’s dissent defends, that the District’s complete ban was constitutional.  See id., at 689, 722 (under “an interest-balancing inquiry. . .” the dissent would “conclude that the District’s measure is a proportionate, not a disproportionate, response to the compelling concerns that led the District to adopt it”).

															Like that dissent in Heller, the real thrust of today’s dissent is that guns are bad and that States and local jurisdictions should be free to restrict them essentially as they see fit.[3]  That argument was rejected in Heller, and while the dissent protests that it is not rearguing Heller, it proceeds to do just that.  See post, at 25–28.

															Heller correctly recognized that the
 
Second Amendment codifies the right of ordinary law-abiding Americans to protect themselves from lethal violence by possessing and, if necessary, using a gun.  In 1791, when the
 
Second Amendment was adopted, there were no police departments, and many families lived alone on isolated farms or on the frontiers.  If these people were attacked, they were on their own.  It is hard to imagine the furor that would have erupted if the Federal Government and the States had tried to take away the guns that these people needed for protection.

															Today, unfortunately, many Americans have good reason to fear that they will be victimized if they are unable to protect themselves.  And today, no less than in 1791, the
 
Second Amendment guarantees their right to do so.
Notes
1
 The dissent makes no effort to explain the relevance of most of the incidents and statistics cited in its introductory section (post, at 1–8) (opinion of Breyer, J.).  Instead, it points to studies (summarized later in its opinion) regarding the effects of “shall issue” licensing regimes on rates of homicide and other violent crimes.  I note only that the dissent’s presentation of such studies is one-sided.  See RAND Corporation, Effects of Concealed-Carry Laws on Violent Crime (Apr. 22, 2022), https://www.rand.org/research/gun-policy/analysis/concealed-carry/violent-crime-html; see also Brief for William English et al. as Amici Curiae 3 (“The overwhelming weight of statistical analysis on the effects of [right-to-carry] laws on violent crime concludes that RTC laws do not result in any statistically significant increase in violent crime rates”); Brief for Arizona et al. as Amici Curiae 12 (“[P]opulation-level data on licensed carry is extensive, and the weight of the evidence confirms that objective, non-discriminatory licensed-carry laws have two results: (1) statistically significant reductions in some types of violent crime, or (2) no statistically significant effect on overall violent crime”); Brief for Law Enforcement Groups et al. as Amici Curiae 12 (“[O]ver the period 1991–2019 the inventory of firearms more than doubled; the number of concealed carry permits increased by at least sevenfold,” but “murder rates fell by almost half, from 9.8 per 100,000 people in 1991 to 5.0 per 100,000 in 2019” and “[v]iolent crimes plummeted by over half ”). 

2
 NYPD statistics show approximately 6,000 illegal guns were seized in 2021.  A. Southall, This Police Captain’s Plan To Stop Gun Violence Uses More Than Handcuffs, N. Y. Times, Feb. 4, 2022.  According to recent remarks by New York City Mayor Eric Adams, the NYPD has confiscated 3,000 firearms in 2022 so far.  City of New York, Transcript: Mayor Eric Adams Makes Announcement About NYPD Gun Violence Suppression Division (June 6, 2022), https://www1.nyc.gov/office-of-the-mayor/news/369-22/trascript-mayor-eric-adams-makes-announcement-nypd-gun-violence-suppression-division. 

3
 If we put together the dissent in this case and Justice Breyer’s Heller dissent, States and local governments would essentially be free to ban the possession of all handguns, and it is unclear whether its approach would impose any significant restrictions on laws regulating long guns.  The dissent would extend a very large measure of deference to legislation implicating
 
Second Amendment rights, but it does not claim that such deference is appropriate when any other constitutional right is at issue. 


