::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-003
::decision_cite:: 20-826
::decision_name::  Brown v. Davenport
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20–826

															_________________

															MIKE BROWN, ACTING WARDEN, PETITIONER v. ERVINE DAVENPORT

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[April 21, 2022]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Sotomayor join, dissenting.

															Twice in recent years, this Court has addressed how a federal habeas court is to evaluate whether a state trial error was harmless.  See Fry v. Pliler,

551 U.S. 112, 119–120 (2007); Davis v. Ayala,

576 U.S. 257, 267–270 (2015).  And twice, we have made clear that the habeas court need apply only the standard prescribed in Brecht v. Abrahamson,

507 U.S. 619 (1993); it need not also run through the test set out in the Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA).  That is because, we have both times explained, the Brecht standard “obviously subsumes” the “more liberal” AEDPA one: If a defendant meets the former, he will “necessarily” meet the latter too.  Fry, 551 U. S., at 120; Ayala, 576 U. S., at 270.

															Today, the Court discards those crystal-clear statements, subscribed to on each occasion by every Justice.  The majority reverses the Court of Appeals for following our prior guidance, allowing the use of the Brecht test alone.  And in declaring Brecht insufficient, the majority consigns future habeas courts to a regimen of make-work.  Now those courts will have to jump through AEDPA’s hoops as well, even though that extra analysis will never lead to a different result.  I respectfully dissent from that pointless demand.

															I

															Because the majority begins with some law-chambers history, see ante, at 7–11, I do too—though fair warning: My discussion is no more relevant than the majority’s to the issue before us.  Not surprisingly, neither of the parties to this small and legally mundane case thought it a suitable occasion for a from-Blackstone-onward theory of habeas practice.  Yet the majority, unprompted, embarks on that project, perhaps hoping that the seeds it sows now will yield more succulent fruit in cases to come.  In the majority’s story, post-conviction habeas relief was all but unavailable until the mid-20th century—when in an instant the Court in Brown v. Allen,

344 U.S. 443 (1953), upended the rules.  That account repeats the views expressed in a recent concurrence, authored by the same Justice as today delivers the majority opinion.  See Edwards v. Vannoy, 593 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2021) (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (slip op., at 2–8); id., at ___ (slip op., at 3) (Habeas historically “provided no recourse for a prisoner confined pursuant to a final judgment of conviction”).  But the theory, in its fundamentals, is wrong.  Federal courts long before Brown extended habeas relief to prisoners held in violation of the Constitution—even after a final conviction.

															This Court started reviewing post-conviction constitutional claims under Congress’s first grant of habeas authority, included in the Judiciary Act of 1789.  That provision, applying only to federal prisoners, did not specifically provide for collateral review of constitutional claims.  See Act of Sept. 24, 1789, §14,

1Stat.
81–82 (enabling federal courts to grant habeas writs to “inquir[e] into the cause of [a federal prisoner’s] commitment”).  But even without explicit permission, the Court in the mid-19th century invoked the habeas law to adjudicate those claims—including some from petitioners already convicted and sentenced.  See 1 R. Hertz & J. Liebman, Federal Habeas Corpus Practice and Procedure §2.4[d][i], p. 51 (7th ed. 2020).  In Ex parte Wells, 18 How. 307 (1856), for example, only the dissent thought that the fact of a conviction and sentence precluded granting habeas relief (as today’s opinion says was the firm rule).  See id., at 330 (Curtis, J., dissenting) (asserting that habeas could not aid a person “imprisoned under a [circuit court’s] criminal sentence”).  The majority, ignoring that objection, scrutinized the merits of the claim in detail before deciding that no constitutional violation had occurred and the applicant should remain in prison.  Id., at 315; see id., at 309–315.  And in Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163 (1874), the Court (again acting under the original habeas law) went further: It granted relief to a convicted prisoner after finding a violation of the Double Jeopardy Clause.  The Court explained that it was carrying out a “sacred duty” in declaring that the prisoner was being held “without authority, and [that] he should therefore be discharged.”  Id., at 178.

															When Congress amended the Judiciary Act after the Civil War, the scope of federal habeas review—including over post-conviction claims—grew far larger.  The text of the amendment (similar to current law) gave federal courts expansive power: “to grant writs of habeas corpus in all cases where any person may be restrained of his or her liberty” in violation of the Federal Constitution.  Act of Feb. 5, 1867,

14Stat.
385; see 28 U. S. C. §§2241(a), (c)(3).  And “any person” in “all cases” meant just that: State prisoners, not just federal ones, could now apply for habeas relief.  Those state cases of course involved separate sovereigns, acting under their own laws.  But even in that sphere, the Court soon decided that the federal judiciary’s authority extended to hearing constitutional challenges to final convictions.  Under the new statute, the Court explained, “a single [federal] judge on habeas corpus” could free “a prisoner, after conviction in a State court,” upon finding him unconstitutionally restrained.  Ex parte Royall,

117 U.S. 241, 253 (1886).  Or as held in another decision, a “party [was] entitled to a [writ of ] habeas corpus,” even after his case “had gone to conviction and sentence,” when the state court “ha[d] no constitutional authority or power to condemn” him.  In re Nielsen,

131 U.S. 176, 184 (1889).  A leading treatise of the time summarized the state of the law: A federal court “may, on habeas corpus, release one who is restrained of his liberty in violation of the constitution of the United States, though held under the criminal process of a state court, and either before or after judgment.”  W. Church, Writ of Habeas Corpus §84, p. 117 (2d ed. 1893).

															In line with that view, this Court granted habeas relief, on an assortment of constitutional grounds, to both federal and state prisoners challenging their convictions or sentences.  The Court granted post-conviction relief to protect habeas applicants’ rights to a grand jury indictment, to a jury trial, to assistance of counsel, and against self-incrimination.  See, e.g., Ex parte Wilson,

114 U.S. 417, 425–426, 429 (1885); Callan v. Wilson,

127 U.S. 540, 547–548, 556–557 (1888); Counselman v. Hitchcock,

142 U.S. 547, 552, 585–586 (1892); Johnson v. Zerbst,

304 U.S. 458, 467–469 (1938).  The Court granted post-conviction relief for violations of the Equal Protection Clause, the Double Jeopardy Clause, and the Ex Post Facto Clause.  See, e.g., Yick Wo v. Hopkins,

118 U.S. 356, 373–374 (1886); Nielsen, 131 U. S., at 190–191; In re Medley,

134 U.S. 160, 170–173 (1890).  And as due process rights expanded in the first half of the 20th century, the Court held post-conviction habeas relief proper for those claims too.  See, e.g., Moore v. Dempsey,

261 U.S. 86, 90–92 (1923); Waley v. Johnston,

316 U.S. 101, 104–105 (1942) (per curiam); Wade v. Mayo,

334 U.S. 672, 683–684 (1948).

															The modern Court has repeatedly acknowledged that history.  “[O]ver the years,” the Court explained (referencing most of the cases cited above), “the writ of habeas corpus evolved as a remedy available to effect discharge from any confinement contrary to the Constitution or fundamental law.”  Preiser v. Rodriguez,

411 U.S. 475, 485 (1973).  Or again: Citing Wells and Lange (among others), the Court described how “judicial decisions [had] expand[ed] the availability of habeas relief ” to include challenges to final convictions.  Wainwright v. Sykes,

433 U.S. 72, 79 (1977).  Or once more: The Court cited a string of 19th- and early 20th-century cases to illustrate how habeas had expanded to remedy “convictions obtained under an unconstitutional statute” or “without adequate procedural protections for the defendant.”  McCleskey v. Zant,

499 U.S. 467, 478 (1991); see also Schlup v. Delo,

513 U.S. 298, 317–318 (1995) (citing McCleskey and Wainwright and noting the “broadening of the scope of the writ” to “encompass review of constitutional error” in criminal proceedings).

															The majority tries to cram the many habeas decisions belying its position into a narrow jurisdictional “exception,” ante, at 8—but its effort does no more than reveal the peril of looking at history through a 21st-century lens.  In the majority’s view, a habeas court could grant relief only “if the court of conviction lacked jurisdiction,” not if it committed “errors in adjudication.”  Ante, at 8, 10.  But some of the decisions the majority must contend with made no mention at all of the convicting (or sentencing) court’s jurisdiction.  See, e.g., Wells, 18 How., at 308–315; Yick Wo, 118 U. S., at 365–374.  And those that did so often used the word to mean something different from what it does today.  The concept of “jurisdictional defects” (ante, at 9) could at that time include—rather than contrast with—constitutional errors of the kind described above.[1]  As one legal historian puts the point: The jurisdictional inquiry was then (though of course not now) often “merits based.”  A. Woolhandler, Demodeling Habeas, 45 Stan. L. Rev. 575, 630 (1993).  That is why this Court could say in the late 19th century that a court of conviction has jurisdiction only “when, in taking custody of the accused, and in its modes of procedure to the determination of the question of his guilt or innocence, and in rendering judgment, the court keeps within the limitations prescribed by the law.”  In re Bonner,

151 U.S. 242, 257 (1894).  Or why a roughly contemporaneous habeas treatise could state: “[N]o court has jurisdiction to imprison a person or detain him in custody in violation of the Constitution.”  1 W. Bailey, Law of Habeas Corpus and Special Remedies §25, p. 67 (1913).  So the majority’s supposedly narrow jurisdictional exception in fact allowed expansive relief: From the mid-1800s on, federal courts granted habeas writs to prisoners, federal and state alike, who on the way to conviction or sentence had suffered serious constitutional harms.[2]

															Contrary to the majority, then, our decision in Brown built on decades and decades of history.  No doubt, Brown was significant—a landmark of a kind—because it “made explicit,” and delineated in precise style, the broad scope of federal habeas.  Wainwright, 433 U. S., at 79.  But the decision, as the leading modern treatise on habeas explains, “worked no revolution.”  1 Hertz & Liebman §2.4[d][viii], at 73.  Rather, the principles that Brown “nicely catalogue[d]” were already “long established, to anyone with the patience to search them out from among the literally hundreds of individually unimportant cases in which they lay dispersed.”  1 Hertz & Liebman, at 73–75.[3]

															So the majority should not be so sure that it really wishes judicially developed habeas doctrines to “return[ ] the Great Writ closer to its historic office,” ante, at 12—at least if that office refers to the longstanding practice of the federal courts under a statute broadly authorizing habeas writs.  The majority might then find itself bound to grant habeas relief, with more regularity and less compunction than it would prefer, to address violations of convicted prisoners’ constitutional rights.

															But let’s be frank: My view of the history, just like the majority’s, has precious little—no, has nothing—to do with resolving this case.  Although it is more entertaining to play amateur historian, it is past time to put in some work on the technical issue before us: what standard(s) a habeas court should use to decide whether a state trial court’s constitutional error was harmless.

															II

															Except that little work is in truth necessary—because we have already, and unanimously, resolved that question twice before.

															To see how (and why) we have done so, first consider the two possible answers.  As the majority frames it, the choice is between (1) applying the Brecht standard alone (as Ervine Davenport wants) and (2) applying both Brecht and AEDPA (as the State desires).  See ante, at 1, 14.  (Trust me: I will in a moment set out what those standards are.)  That formulation of the choice is appropriate as shorthand; indeed, I will use it myself.  But it remains an oversimplification.  For in arguing that the Brecht test suffices, Davenport does not contend that a federal habeas court may simply ignore AEDPA.  Although the majority veils the point, Davenport readily acknowledges that a court must always comply with AEDPA’s limitation on “the legal materials a court may consult” and “draw on” to justify habeas relief.  Ante, at 15–16; see Brief for Respondent 16–17 (explaining that a court’s Brecht analysis is sufficient only if it relies exclusively “on the legal and factual materials allowed” under AEDPA).  All Davenport claims is that if the habeas court confines itself to using AEDPA-approved materials, then it need only find the Brecht standard met to grant relief.[4]  That means (here, finally, is the Brecht standard) the court has to find “actual prejudice”—more specifically, that there is “grave doubt” about whether an error had a “substantial and injurious effect or influence” on a verdict.  Brecht, 507 U. S., at 637; O’Neal v. McAninch,

513 U.S. 432, 436 (1995).  But no more is required: The court need not, Davenport says, separately apply the AEDPA test.  Which means it does not have to analyze (here is the AEDPA test) whether the state appellate court acted “unreasonabl[y],”

28 U. S. C. §2254(d), when it decided, under Chapman v. California,

386 U.S. 18 (1967), that an error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt.  Is Davenport right?

															This Court (first) made clear in Fry v. Pliler that he is.  The question there was whether a federal habeas court should assess harmless error under Brecht (rather than Chapman) even when the state court had failed to make the harmlessness finding Chapman requires on direct review.  Justice Scalia, speaking for a unanimous Court, explained why the habeas court should still apply Brecht: Use of the defendant-friendly Chapman test on habeas would “undermin[e] the States’ interest in [the] finality” of convictions.  551 U. S., at 117 (quoting Brecht, 507 U. S., at 637).  But Fry raised an objection.  In recently enacting AEDPA, he claimed, Congress had abolished the Brecht test—replacing it with a new AEDPA/Chapman standard of review.  That argument, of course, differs from Davenport’s.  See ante, at 18.  But the Court’s reply, in describing the relationship between Brecht and AEDPA, answers today’s question:

															“Given our frequent recognition that AEDPA limited rather than expanded the availability of habeas relief, it is implausible that, without saying so, AEDPA replaced the Brecht standard of actual prejudice with the more liberal AEDPA/Chapman standard which requires only that the state court’s harmless-beyond-a-reasonable-doubt determination be unreasonable.  That said, it certainly makes no sense to require formal application of both tests (AEDPA/Chapman and Brecht) when the latter obviously subsumes the former.”  551 U. S., at 119–120 (citations and internal quotation marks omitted).

															That passage is clear on its face, as Justice Scalia’s opinions typically are.  But because the majority pretends it does not say what it says, see ante, at 18–19, it is worth going over.  The key points are two.  First, the Brecht standard is harder for a prisoner to meet—i.e., less “liberal”—than the AEDPA/Chapman standard.  And second, because that is so—because Brecht so “obviously subsumes” AEDPA/ Chapman—it “makes no sense” to require a court to formally apply both.  Just apply Brecht and be done with it.  Not in “some cases,” and not in select “scenario[s],” as today’s majority imagines.  Ante, at 18–19.  But as a rule.  Because if a prisoner can satisfy Brecht, he can “obviously” satisfy AEDPA/Chapman, and courts should not have to do needless work.

															But we need not take Fry’s word for the point, because the Court in Davis v. Ayala reaffirmed everything Justice Scalia said.  In Ayala, a federal court held on habeas that a state trial error caused actual prejudice under Brecht.  This Court disagreed and reversed, but it made clear that the Brecht test governed.  See 576 U. S., at 267 (“In a collateral proceeding, the test is” Brecht’s “actual prejudice” standard).  After describing that standard (with stress on its strictness), the Court addressed its relation to AEDPA.  Brecht in no way “abrogates” AEDPA, the Court noted.  576 U. S., at 268.  But the Court explained—several times over—that Brecht makes AEDPA functionally immaterial on matters relating to harmlessness.  “In Fry,” the Ayala Court began, “we held that the Brecht standard ‘subsumes’ the requirements that [AEDPA] imposes when a federal habeas petitioner contests a state court’s determination that a constitutional error was harmless under Chapman.”  576 U. S., at 268.  Because that is so, Ayala continued (again quoting Fry), “a federal habeas court need not ‘formal[ly]’ apply both Brecht and ‘AEDPA/Chapman.’ ”  576 U. S., at 268 (alteration in original).  And if that were not clear enough, the Court reprised: “In sum, a prisoner who seeks federal habeas corpus relief must satisfy Brecht, and if the state court adjudicated his claim on the merits, the Brecht test subsumes the limitations imposed by AEDPA.”  Id., at 270.  But still, the Court was not done.  In turning to whether the error at issue had caused Ayala harm, the Court noted that he “necessarily” would not satisfy Brecht if he had failed to satisfy AEDPA/Chapman—which is the flipside of saying he necessarily would satisfy AEDPA/ Chapman if he had satisfied Brecht.  576 U. S., at 270.  Both are a function, once again, of Brecht “obviously subsum[ing]” AEDPA/Chapman.[5]

															Today’s majority contorts Ayala, too, beyond recognition.  The majority insists that only a “carefully curated snippet” of that decision—one sentence, in fact—cuts against today’s holding.  Ante, at 20.  But see all the quotations above.  Ayala repeats the key point favoring Davenport—that a court applying Brecht need not separately apply AEDPA—multiple times over a span of more than three pages (with the rest of that section providing supportive analysis).  See 576 U. S., at 267–270.  Similarly, the majority asserts that the word “subsumes,” as introduced in Fry and echoed in Ayala, does not really mean subsumes—which is to say, fully “encompass[es] as” a “component element.”  Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary 1246 (11th ed. 2005).  Rather, when the greatest wordsmith in modern Supreme Court history used the term to describe the relationship between two legal tests, he really meant (“more precisely” meant (!), ante, at 20) that they merely overlapped—so that sometimes a person meeting one test necessarily meets the other, but then again, sometimes not.  If all this shows “respect for past judgments,” as the majority declares, ibid., then that phrase too has an unconventional meaning.  What Ayala held, adhering to Fry, was that anytime a habeas petitioner satisfies Brecht, he of necessity satisfies AEDPA/Chapman.  And because that is so, a habeas court need not apply both.  I hate to assign homework to readers of Supreme Court opinions, but if you don’t know what to make of the majority’s and my contrasting descriptions of Fry and Ayala: well, just go read them.

															The majority departs from those two decisions because it disagrees with what they said.  The straightforward basis of Fry and Ayala, as just described, is that the AEDPA/Chapman test is “more liberal” than the Brecht test—i.e., easier for the habeas petitioner to meet.  Fry, 551 U. S., at 120.  (That is why, Fry explained, the Congress enacting AEDPA—intent as it was on limiting habeas—could not have meant to replace Brecht.)  The majority here asserts that this view of the two tests is just not true.  Its theory goes: Whereas AEDPA asks whether “every fairminded jurist” would find the requisite prejudice, Brecht asks only whether “a federal habeas court itself ” would do so.  Ante, at 15 (emphasis in original).

															 But that description tells only part of the story—and not the most important part.  Consider a fuller description of what a habeas court addressing the prejudicial effect of an error asks under each standard.  See supra, at 8–9.  Applying AEDPA, the court asks whether the state court acted “unreasonabl[y]” in finding (under Chapman) that the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt—meaning that there is no “reasonable possibility” it “might have contributed to the conviction.”

28 U. S. C. §2254(d); Chapman, 386 U. S., at 23–24.  Applying Brecht, the court instead asks whether the error was “actual[ly] prejudic[ial]”—meaning that there is, at a minimum, “grave doubt” about whether an error had a “substantial and injurious effect or influence” on a verdict.  Brecht, 507 U. S., at 637; O’Neal, 513 U. S., at 435–436.  The majority is quite right to note that AEDPA’s language of reasonableness directs a court to think about how all fairminded jurists would approach a question, while Brecht tells a court to decide a question for itself.  Cf. ante, at 17, n. 3 (somehow still asserting that I “paper over th[is] difference[ ]”).  But what the majority obscures is that those two questions are starkly different.  A court doing AEDPA puts a reasonableness overlay on the Chapman question; a court doing Brecht of course asks the Brecht question.  And the Chapman question—see just above—is far easier for a defendant to prevail on.  Accord, ante, at 12–13.  (That is why the Brecht test was created—to better protect the finality of convictions on habeas.  See Brecht, 507 U. S., at 637–638.)  So much easier, indeed, that Fry thought it self-evident (“obvious”) that even with the AEDPA overlay, the Chapman inquiry would require the release of more prisoners.  Fry, 551 U. S., at 120.

															The relationship between Brecht and AEDPA/Chapman means that today’s holding will make no difference to habeas outcomes.  Consider a court that has found the Brecht test satisfied: It has, at the least, “grave doubt” about the error affecting the verdict.  Will that same court say that a reasonable jurist could find no such effect beyond a reasonable doubt—that the jurist could deny there was even a “reasonable possibility” of the error mattering?  The answer is no.  And that is not just what our precedents say.  It is also what the real world shows.  Several Circuits formerly followed the rule the majority announces today: Habeas courts there could not grant relief before separately applying Brecht and AEDPA/Chapman.  Yet neither the majority nor the State has come up with a single case (nor have I) in which a court held that a petitioner satisfied Brecht but not AEDPA/Chapman.  Which for all the reasons Fry, Ayala, and I have given is no wonder. Apply Brecht alone or apply both Brecht and AEDPA: The same people will, and will not, receive habeas relief.[6]

															All today’s holding does going forward is compel habeas courts, and the parties before them, to spin their wheels.  All it does is what Fry observed “certainly makes no sense”: require “formal application of [two] tests” when only one—Brecht—matters.  551 U. S., at 120.  Of course, it is not the worst thing in the world to have to do unnecessary work of this kind; parties and courts alike will find ways to limit the inefficiencies involved.  But really, why should they have to?  Our prior decisions got the question here right.  The courts that have followed their instructions did everything needed.  Better, by far, to have left it at that.
Notes
1
 See, e.g., Ex parte Wilson, 
114 U.S. 417, 429 (1885) (the lack of a grand jury indictment meant that the court had “exceeded its jurisdiction”); Callan v. Wilson,

127 U.S. 540, 547, 557 (1888) (a denial of the jury trial right rendered a conviction “void” and “without jurisdiction”); In re Nielsen,

131 U.S. 176, 185 (1889) (a sentence violating the Double Jeopardy Clause was “beyond the jurisdiction of the court,” because “an express provision of the Constitution[ ] bounds and limits all jurisdiction”); Johnson v. Zerbst,

304 U.S. 458, 468 (1938) (the denial of the right to counsel is a “jurisdictional bar to a valid conviction”). 

2
 A forthcoming article makes much the same point in addressing the concurrence that anticipated today’s historical musings.  See supra, at 2; Edwards v. Vannoy, 593 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2021) (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (slip op., at 2–8).  Professor Jonathan Siegel writes that the concurrence “relies on quotations” invoking a court’s jurisdiction “without fully acknowledging the meaning that they had in their original context.  [It] incorrectly ascribes to these quotations the meaning they might have if a court wrote them today.  One must, however, always remember that ‘the past is a foreign country; they do things differently there.’  Historical statements must be understood in their historical context.”  Habeas, History, and Hermeneutics, 64 Ariz. L. Rev. (forthcoming 2022) (draft, at 4), https://ssrn.com/abstract=3899955 (footnote omitted). 

3
 A mountain of other scholarship confirms the treatise’s account.  See, e.g., J. Siegel, 64 Ariz. L. Rev. (forthcoming 2022) (draft, at 26) (“[T]he distance between nineteenth century habeas practices and those approved in Brown v. Allen is much smaller than Justice Gorsuch is prepared to acknowledge”); J. Wert, Habeas Corpus in America: The Politics of Individual Rights 142 (2011) (Brown “merely formaliz[ed] earlier rules”); E. Freedman, Habeas Corpus: Rethinking the Great Writ of Liberty 139 (2001) (“[O]ne can characterize Brown as a watershed only by shutting one’s eyes” to developments “under way long before the case was decided”); A. Clarke, Habeas Corpus: The Historical Debate, 14 N. Y. L. S. J. Human Rights 375, 433 (1998) (“Far from constituting a sea change, [Brown] merely modernized the language of the law”); S. Saltzburg, Habeas Corpus: The Supreme Court and the Congress, 44 Ohio St. L. J. 367, 382 (1983) (“Was [Brown] a departure from prior holdings? The only fair answer is ‘no’ ”); G. Peller, In Defense of Federal Habeas Corpus Relitigation, 16 Harv. Civ. Rights-Civ. Lib. L. Rev. 579, 644 (1982) (Brown “did not break any new ground” respecting “the scope of federal habeas review of state court determinations of federal law”). 

4
 That view does not, as the majority recurrently claims, require “rewrit[ing]” Brecht to make it “Brecht 2.0.”  Ante, at 19, n. 4; see ante, at 17, n. 3, 20, n. 5.  The question of what materials a court may consider is of course different from the question of what standard the court must apply in deciding to grant habeas relief.  Brecht addresses the legal standard alone.  So Brecht could not possibly affect AEDPA’s materials requirement—and Davenport properly recognizes as much.  But Brecht could obviate the need to apply AEDPA’s standard—and as I’ll describe, this Court has not once but twice made clear that it does. 

5
 Only the Ayala Court’s application of Brecht provoked a dissenting opinion.  The dissent explained that its disagreement did “not stem from [the Court’s] discussion of the applicable standard of review”—i.e., the Brecht standard alone—“which simply restates the holding of Fry.”  576 U. S., at 291 (Sotomayor, J., dissenting). 

6
 The decision here does not show otherwise, contra the majority’s claim that it “illustrates” how today’s apply-both-tests directive “matter[s].”  Ante, at 16. The only way that claim could be true is if the majority believed Davenport’s claim passes the Brecht test (and yet fails AEDPA/Chapman, as it holds).  But the majority believes nothing of the sort.  The majority merely indulges the “assum[ption]” that the Sixth Circuit could have found Brecht satisfied.  Ante, at 16, 25.  And the majority’s analysis shows how far-fetched it thinks that assumption is.  Though under the banner of AEDPA, the majority disagrees at every turn with the Sixth Circuit’s reasons for granting relief under Brecht—both the Sixth Circuit’s assessment of the record and its reading of this Court’s precedent.  See ante, at 21–25.  No one could read today’s opinion and think the majority harbors “grave doubt” that the trial error here affected the verdict. 


