::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 20A87
::decision_name::  Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn v. Cuomo
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20A87

															_________________

															ROMAN CATHOLIC DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN, NEW YORK v. ANDREW M. CUOMO, GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK

															on application for injunctive relief

															[November 25, 2020]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Kagan joins, dissenting.

															Amidst a pandemic that has already claimed over a quarter million American lives, the Court today enjoins one of New York’s public health measures aimed at containing the spread of COVID–19 in areas facing the most severe outbreaks.  Earlier this year, this Court twice stayed its hand when asked to issue similar extraordinary relief.  See South Bay United Pentecostal Church v. Newsom, 590 U. S. ___ (2020); Calvary Chapel Dayton Valley v. Sisolak, 591 U. S. ___ (2020).  I see no justification for the Court’s change of heart, and I fear that granting applications such as the one filed by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn (Diocese) will only exacerbate the Nation’s suffering.[1]

															South Bay and Calvary Chapel provided a clear and workable rule to state officials seeking to control the spread of COVID–19: They may restrict attendance at houses of worship so long as comparable secular institutions face restrictions that are at least equally as strict.  See South Bay, 590 U. S., at ___ (Roberts, C. J., concurring) (slip op., at 2). New York’s safety measures fall comfortably within those bounds.  Like the States in South Bay and Calvary Chapel, New York applies “[s]imilar or more severe restrictions . . . to comparable secular gatherings, including lectures, concerts, movie showings, spectator sports, and theatrical performances, where large groups of people gather in close proximity for extended periods of time.”  Ibid.  Likewise, New York “treats more leniently only dissimilar activities, such as operating grocery stores, banks, and laundromats, in which people neither congregate in large groups nor remain in close proximity for extended periods.”  Ibid.  That should be enough to decide this case.

															The Diocese attempts to get around South Bay and Calvary Chapel by disputing New York’s conclusion that attending religious services poses greater risks than, for instance, shopping at big box stores.  Application in No. 20A87, p. 23 (Application).  But the District Court rejected that argument as unsupported by the factual record.  ___, F. Supp. 3d ___, ___–___, 2020 WL 6120167, *8–*9 (EDNY, Oct. 16, 2020).  Undeterred, Justice Gorsuch offers up his own examples of secular activities he thinks might pose similar risks as religious gatherings, but which are treated more leniently under New York’s rules (e.g., going to the liquor store or getting a bike repaired).  Ante, at 2 (concurring opinion).  But Justice Gorsuch does not even try to square his examples with the conditions medical experts tell us facilitate the spread of COVID–19: large groups of people gathering, speaking, and singing in close proximity indoors for extended periods of time.  See App. to Brief in Opposition in No. 20A87, pp. 46–51 (declaration of Debra S. Blog, Director of the Div. of Epidemiology, NY Dept. of Health); Brief for the American Medical Association et al. as Amicus Curiae 3–6 (Brief for AMA).  Unlike religious services, which “have every one of th[ose] risk factors,” Brief for AMA 6, bike repair shops and liquor stores generally do not feature customers gathering inside to sing and speak together for an hour or more at a time.  Id., at 7 (“Epidemiologists and physicians generally agree that religious services are among the riskiest activities”).  Justices of this Court play a deadly game in second guessing the expert judgment of health officials about the environments in which a contagious virus, now infecting a million Americans each week, spreads most easily.

															In truth, this case is easier than South Bay and Calvary Chapel.  While the state regulations in those cases generally applied the same rules to houses of worship and secular institutions where people congregate in large groups, New York treats houses of worship far more favorably than their secular comparators.  Compare, e.g., Calvary Chapel, 591 U. S., at ___ (Kavanaugh, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 8) (noting that Nevada subjected movie theaters and houses of worship alike to a 50-person cap) with App. to Brief in Opposition in No. 20A87, p. 53 (requiring movie theaters, concert venues, and sporting arenas subject to New York’s regulation to close entirely, but allowing houses of worship to open subject to capacity restrictions).  And whereas the restrictions in South Bay and Calvary Chapel applied statewide, New York’s fixed-capacity restrictions apply only in specially designated areas experiencing a surge in COVID–19 cases.

															The Diocese suggests that, because New York’s regulation singles out houses of worship by name, it cannot be neutral with respect to the practice of religion.  Application 22.  Thus, the argument goes, the regulation must, ipso facto, be subject to strict scrutiny.  It is true that New York’s policy refers to religion on its face.  But as I have just explained, that is because the policy singles out religious institutions for preferential treatment in comparison to secular gatherings, not because it discriminates against them.  Surely the Diocese cannot demand laxer restrictions by pointing out that it is already being treated better than comparable secular institutions.[2]

															Finally, the Diocese points to certain statements by Governor Cuomo as evidence that New York’s regulation is impermissibly targeted at religious activity—specifically, at combatting heightened rates of positive COVID–19 cases among New York’s Orthodox Jewish community.  Application 24.  The Diocese suggests that these comments supply “an independent basis for the application of strict scrutiny.”  Reply Brief in No. 20A87, p. 9.  I do not see how.  The Governor’s comments simply do not warrant an application of strict scrutiny under this Court’s precedents.  Just a few Terms ago, this Court declined to apply heightened scrutiny to a Presidential Proclamation limiting immigration from Muslim-majority countries, even though President Trump had described the Proclamation as a “Muslim Ban,” originally conceived of as a “ ‘total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on.’ ”  Trump v. Hawaii, 585 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 27).  If the President’s statements did not show “that the challenged restrictions violate the ‘minimum requirement of neutrality’ to religion,” ante, at 2 (quoting Lukumi, 508 U. S., at 533), it is hard to see how Governor Cuomo’s do.

															*  *  *

															Free religious exercise is one of our most treasured and jealously guarded constitutional rights.  States may not discriminate against religious institutions, even when faced with a crisis as deadly as this one.  But those principles are not at stake today.  The Constitution does not forbid States from responding to public health crises through regulations that treat religious institutions equally or more favorably than comparable secular institutions, particularly when those regulations save lives.  Because New York’s COVID–19 restrictions do just that, I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 Ironically, due to the success of New York’s public health measures, the Diocese is no longer subject to the numerical caps on attendance it seeks to enjoin.  See Brief in Opposition in Agudath Israel of America v. Cuomo, No. 20A90, p. 17.  Yet the Court grants this application to ensure that, should infection rates rise once again, the Governor will be unable to reimplement the very measures that have proven so successful at allowing the free (and comparatively safe) exercise of religion in New York. 

2
 Justice Kavanaugh cites Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah,

508 U.S. 520, 537–538 (1993), and Employment Div., Dept. of Human Resources of Ore. v. Smith,

494 U.S. 872, 884 (1990), for the proposition that states must justify treating even noncomparable secular institutions more favorably than houses of worship.  Ante, at 2 (concurring opinion).  But those cases created no such rule.  Lukumi struck down a law that allowed animals to be killed for almost any purpose other than animal sacrifice, on the ground that the law was a “ ‘religious gerrymander’ ” targeted at the Santeria faith.  508 U. S., at 535.  Smith is even farther afield, standing for the entirely inapposite proposition that “the right of free exercise does not relieve an individual of the obligation to comply with a valid and neutral law of general applicability on the ground that the law proscribes (or prescribes) conduct that his religion prescribes (or proscribes).”  494 U. S., at 879 (internal quotation marks omitted). 


