::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 20A87
::decision_name::  Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn v. Cuomo
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20A87

															_________________

															ROMAN CATHOLIC DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN, NEW YORK v. ANDREW M. CUOMO, GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK

															on application for injunctive relief

															[November 25, 2020]

															

															Justice Kavanaugh, concurring.

															I vote to grant the applications of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn and Agudath Israel of America for temporary injunctions against New York’s 10-person and 25- person caps on attendance at religious services.  On this record, temporary injunctions are warranted because New York’s severe caps on attendance at religious services likely violate the
 
First Amendment.  Importantly, the Court’s orders today are not final decisions on the merits.  Instead, the Court simply grants temporary injunctive relief until the Court of Appeals in December, and then this Court as appropriate, can more fully consider the merits.

															To begin with, New York’s 10-person and 25-person caps on attendance at religious services in red and orange zones (which are areas where COVID–19 is more prevalent) are much more severe than most other States’ restrictions, including the California and Nevada limits at issue in South Bay United Pentecostal Church v. Newsom, 590 U. S. ___ (2020), and Calvary Chapel Dayton Valley v. Sisolak, 591 U. S. ___ (2020).  In South Bay, houses of worship were limited to 100 people (or, in buildings with capacity of under 400, to 25% of capacity).  And in Calvary, houses of worship were limited to 50 people.

															New York has gone much further.  In New York’s red zones, most houses of worship are limited to 10 people; in orange zones, most houses of worship are limited to 25 people.  Those strict and inflexible numerical caps apply even to large churches and synagogues that ordinarily can hold hundreds of people and that, with social distancing and mask requirements, could still easily hold far more than 10 or 25 people.

															Moreover, New York’s restrictions on houses of worship not only are severe, but also are discriminatory.  In red and orange zones, houses of worship must adhere to numerical caps of 10 and 25 people, respectively, but those caps do not apply to some secular buildings in the same neighborhoods.  In a red zone, for example, a church or synagogue must adhere to a 10-person attendance cap, while a grocery store, pet store, or big-box store down the street does not face the same restriction.  In an orange zone, the discrimination against religion is even starker: Essential businesses and many non-essential businesses are subject to no attendance caps at all.

															The State’s discrimination against religion raises a serious
 
First Amendment issue and triggers heightened scrutiny, requiring the State to provide a sufficient justification for the discrimination.  See Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah,

508 U.S. 520, 537–538 (1993); Employment Div., Dept. of Human Resources of Ore. v. Smith,

494 U.S. 872, 884 (1990).  But New York has not sufficiently justified treating houses of worship more severely than secular businesses.

															The State argues that it has not impermissibly discriminated against religion because some secular businesses such as movie theaters must remain closed and are thus treated less favorably than houses of worship.  But under this Court’s precedents, it does not suffice for a State to point out that, as compared to houses of worship, some secular businesses are subject to similarly severe or even more severe restrictions.  See Lukumi, 508 U. S., at 537–538; Smith, 494 U. S., at 884; see also Calvary, 591 U. S., at ___ (Kavanaugh, J., dissenting from denial of application for injunctive relief ) (slip op., at 7).  Rather, once a State creates a favored class of businesses, as New York has done in this case, the State must justify why houses of worship are excluded from that favored class.  Here, therefore, the State must justify imposing a 10-person or 25-person limit on houses of worship but not on favored secular businesses.  See Lukumi, 508 U. S., at 537–538; Smith, 494 U. S., at 884.  The State has not done so.

															To be clear, the COVID–19 pandemic remains extraordinarily serious and deadly.  And at least until vaccines are readily available, the situation may get worse in many parts of the United States.  The Constitution “principally entrusts the safety and the health of the people to the politically accountable officials of the States.”  South Bay, 590 U. S., at ___ (Roberts, C. J., concurring in denial of application for injunctive relief ) (slip op., at 2) (internal quotation marks and alteration omitted).  Federal courts therefore must afford substantial deference to state and local authorities about how best to balance competing policy considerations during the pandemic.  See ibid.  But judicial deference in an emergency or a crisis does not mean wholesale judicial abdication, especially when important questions of religious discrimination, racial discrimination, free speech, or the like are raised.

															In light of the devastating pandemic, I do not doubt the State’s authority to impose tailored restrictions—even very strict restrictions—on attendance at religious services and secular gatherings alike.  But the New York restrictions on houses of worship are not tailored to the circumstances given the
 
First Amendment interests at stake.  To reiterate, New York’s restrictions on houses of worship are much more severe than the California and Nevada restrictions at issue in South Bay and Calvary, and much more severe than the restrictions that most other States are imposing on attendance at religious services.  And New York’s restrictions discriminate against religion by treating houses of worship significantly worse than some secular businesses.

															For those reasons, I agree with The Chief Justice that New York’s “[n]umerical capacity limits of 10 and 25 people . . . seem unduly restrictive” and that “it may well be that such restrictions violate the Free Exercise Clause.”  Post,  at 1.  I part ways with The Chief Justice on a narrow procedural point regarding the timing of the injunctions.  The Chief Justice would not issue injunctions at this time.  As he notes, the State made a change in designations a few days ago, and now none of the churches and synagogues who are applicants in these cases are located in red or orange zones.  As I understand it, The Chief Justice would not issue an injunction unless and until a house of worship applies for an injunction and is still in a red or orange zone on the day that the injunction is finally issued.  But the State has not withdrawn or amended the relevant Executive Order.  And the State does not suggest that the applicants lack standing to challenge the red-zone and orange-zone caps imposed by the Executive Order, or that these cases are moot or not ripe.  In other words, the State does not deny that the applicants face an imminent injury today.  In particular, the State does not deny that some houses of worship, including the applicants here, are located in areas that likely will be classified as red or orange zones in the very near future.  I therefore see no jurisdictional or prudential barriers to issuing the injunctions now.

															There also is no good reason to delay issuance of the injunctions, as I see it.  If no houses of worship end up in red or orange zones, then the Court’s injunctions today will impose no harm on the State and have no effect on the State’s response to COVID–19.  And if houses of worship end up in red or orange zones, as is likely, then today’s injunctions will ensure that religious organizations are not subjected to the unconstitutional 10-person and 25-person caps.  Moreover, issuing the injunctions now rather than a few days from now not only will ensure that the applicants’ constitutional rights are protected, but also will provide some needed clarity for the State and religious organizations.

															*  *  *

															On this record, the applicants have shown: a likelihood that the Court would grant certiorari and reverse; irreparable harm; and that the equities favor injunctive relief.  I therefore vote to grant the applications for temporary injunctive relief until the Court of Appeals in December, and then this Court as appropriate, can more fully consider the merits.
													
