::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 20A87
::decision_name::  Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn v. Cuomo
::decision_year:: 2020
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 20A87

															_________________

															ROMAN CATHOLIC DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN, NEW YORK v. ANDREW M. CUOMO, GOVERNOR OF NEW YORK

															on application for injunctive relief

															[November 25, 2020]

															Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Sotomayor and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															New York regulations designed to fight the rapidly spreading—and, in many cases, fatal—COVID–19 virus permit the Governor to identify hot spots where infection rates have spiked and to designate those hot spots as red zones, the immediately surrounding areas as orange zones, and the outlying areas as yellow zones.  Brief in Opposition in No. 20A87, p. 12.  The regulations impose restrictions within these zones (with the strictest restrictions in the red zones and the least strict restrictions in the yellow zones) to curb transmission of the virus and prevent spread into nearby areas.  Ibid.  In October, the Governor designated red, orange, and yellow zones in parts of Brooklyn and Queens.  Brief in Opposition in Agudath Israel of America v. Cuomo, O. T. 2020, No. 20A90, pp. 10–11 (Brief in Opposition in No. 20A90).  Among other things, the restrictions in these zones limit the number of persons who can be present at one time at a gathering in a house of worship to: the lesser of 10 people or 25% of maximum capacity in a red zone; the lesser of 25 people or 33% of maximum capacity in an orange zone; and 50% of maximum capacity in a yellow zone.  Id., at 8–9.

															Both the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn and Agudath Israel of America (together with Agudath Israel of Kew Garden Hills and its employee and Agudath Israel of Madison and its rabbi) brought lawsuits against the Governor of New York.  They claimed that the fixed-capacity restrictions of 10 people in red zones and 25 people in orange zones were too strict—to the point where they violated the
 
First Amendment’s protection of the free exercise of religion.  Both parties asked a Federal District Court for a preliminary injunction that would prohibit the State from enforcing these red and orange zone restrictions.

															After receiving evidence and hearing witness testimony, the District Court in the Diocese’s case found that New York’s regulations were “crafted based on science and for epidemiological purposes.”  ___ F. Supp. 3d ___, ___, 2020 WL 6120167, *10 (EDNY, Oct. 16, 2020).  It wrote that they treated “religious gatherings . . . more favorably than similar gatherings” with comparable risks, such as “public lectures, concerts or theatrical performances.”  Id., at *9.  The court also recognized the Diocese’s argument that the regulations treated religious gatherings less favorably than what the State has called “essential businesses,” including, for example, grocery stores and banks.  Ibid.  But the court found these essential businesses to be distinguishable from religious services and declined to “second guess the State’s judgment about what should qualify as an essential business.”  Ibid.  The District Court denied the motion for a preliminary injunction.  The Diocese appealed, and the District Court declined to issue an emergency injunction pending that appeal.  The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit also denied the Diocese’s request for an emergency injunction pending appeal, but it called for expedited briefing and scheduled a full hearing on December 18 to address the merits of the appeal. This Court, unlike the lower courts, has now decided to issue an injunction that would prohibit the State from enforcing its fixed-capacity restrictions on houses of worship in red and orange zones while the parties await the Second Circuit’s decision.  I cannot agree with that decision.

															For one thing, there is no need now to issue any such injunction.  Those parts of Brooklyn and Queens where the Diocese’s churches and the two applicant synagogues are located are no longer within red or orange zones.  Brief in Opposition in No. 20A90, at 17.  Thus, none of the applicants are now subject to the fixed-capacity restrictions that they challenge in their applications.  The specific applicant houses of worship are now in yellow zones where they can hold services up to 50% of maximum capacity.  And the applicants do not challenge any yellow zone restrictions, as the conditions in the yellow zone provide them with more than the relief they asked for in their applications.

															Instead, the applicants point out that the State might reimpose the red or orange zone restrictions in the future.  But, were that to occur, they could refile their applications here, by letter brief if necessary.  And this Court, if necessary, could then decide the matter in a day or two, perhaps even in a few hours.  Why should this Court act now without argument or full consideration in the ordinary course (and prior to the Court of Appeals’ consideration of the matter) when there is no legal or practical need for it to do so?  I have found no convincing answer to that question.

															For another thing, the Court’s decision runs contrary to ordinary governing law.  We have previously said that an injunction is an “extraordinary remedy.”  Nken v. Holder,

556 U.S. 418, 428 (2009) (internal quotation marks omitted).  That is especially so where, as here, the applicants seek an injunction prior to full argument and contrary to the lower courts’ determination.  Here, we consider severe restrictions.  Those restrictions limit the number of persons who can attend a religious service to 10 and 25 congregants (irrespective of mask-wearing and social distancing).  And those numbers are indeed low.  But whether, in present circumstances, those low numbers violate the Constitution’s Free Exercise Clause is far from clear, and, in my view, the applicants must make such a showing here to show that they are entitled to “the extraordinary remedy of injunction.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).

															COVID–19 has infected more than 12 million Americans and caused more than 250,000 deaths nationwide.  At least 26,000 of those deaths have occurred in the State of New York, with 16,000 in New York City alone.  And the number of COVID–19 cases is many times the number of deaths.  The Nation is now experiencing a second surge of infections.  In New York, for example, the 7-day average of new confirmed cases per day has risen from around 700 at the end of the summer to over 4,800 last week.  Nationwide, the number of new confirmed cases per day is now higher than it has ever been.  Brief in Opposition in No. 20A87, at 1; COVID in the U. S.: Latest Map and Case Count (Nov. 24, 2020), http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/coronavirus-us-cases.html#states; New York COVID Map and Case Count (Nov. 24, 2020), http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/us/new-york-coronavirus-cases.html.

															At the same time, members of the scientific and medical communities tell us that the virus is transmitted from person to person through respiratory droplets produced when a person or group of people talk, sing, cough, or breathe near each other.  Brief in Opposition in No. 20A87, at 3 (citing the World Health Organization); Brief of the American Medical Association as Amici Curiae 5–6.  Thus, according to experts, the risk of transmission is higher when people are in close contact with one another for prolonged periods of time, particularly indoors or in other enclosed spaces.  Id., at 3–6.  The nature of the epidemic, the spikes, the uncertainties, and the need for quick action, taken together, mean that the State has countervailing arguments based upon health, safety, and administrative considerations that must be balanced against the applicants’
 
First Amendment challenges.  That fact, along with others that Justice Sotomayor describes, means that the applicants’ claim of a constitutional violation (on which they base their request for injunctive relief ) is far from clear.  See post, p. 1 (dissenting opinion).  (All of these matters could be considered and discussed in the ordinary course of proceedings at a later date.)  At the same time, the public’s serious health and safety needs, which call for swift government action in ever changing circumstances, also mean that it is far from clear that “the balance of equities tips in [the applicants’] favor,” or “that an injunction is in the public interest.”  Winter v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,

555 U.S. 7, 20 (2008).

															Relevant precedent suggests the same.  We have previously recognized that courts must grant elected officials “broad” discretion when they “undertake to act in areas fraught with medical and scientific uncertainties.”  South Bay United Pentecostal Church v. Newsom, 590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (Roberts, C. J., concurring) (slip op., at 2) (alteration omitted).  That is because the “Constitution principally entrusts the safety and the health of the people to the politically accountable officials of the States.”  Ibid. (alterations and internal quotation marks omitted).  The elected branches of state and national governments can marshal scientific expertise and craft specific policies in response to “changing facts on the ground.”  Id., at 3.  And they can do so more quickly than can courts.  That is particularly true of a court, such as this Court, which does not conduct evidentiary hearings.  It is true even more so where, as here, the need for action is immediate, the information likely limited, the making of exceptions difficult, and the disease-related circumstances rapidly changing.

															I add that, in my view, the Court of Appeals will, and should, act expeditiously. The State of New York will, and should, seek ways of appropriately recognizing the religious interests here at issue without risking harm to the health and safety of the people of New York.  But I see no practical need to issue an injunction to achieve these objectives.  Rather, as I said, I can find no need for an immediate injunction.  I believe that, under existing law, it ought not to issue. And I dissent from the Court’s decision to the contrary.
													
