::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1271
::decision_name::  Moore v. Harper
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1271

															_________________

															TIMOTHY K. MOORE, in his official capacity as
SPEAKER OF THE NORTH CAROLINA HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
et al., PETITIONERS v. REBECCA HARPER, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
north carolina

															[June 27, 2023]

															

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Gorsuch
joins, and with whom Justice Alito joins as to Part I,
dissenting.

															This Court sits “to resolve not questions
and issues but ‘Cases’ or
‘Controversies.’ ” Arizona Christian
School Tuition Organization v. Winn, 563 U.S.
125, 132 (2011); see U. S. Const., Art. III, §1.
As a corollary of that basic constitutional principle, the Court
“is without power to decide moot questions or to give
advisory opinions which cannot affect the rights of the litigants
in the case before it.” St. Pierre v. United
States, 319 U.S.
41, 42 (1943) (per curiam). To do so would be to violate
“the oldest and most consistent thread in the federal law of
justiciability.” Flast v. Cohen, 392 U.S.
83, 96 (1968) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															The opinion that the Court releases today breaks
that thread. It “affirms” an interlocutory state-court
judgment that has since been overruled and supplanted by a final
judgment resolving all claims in petitioners’ favor. The
issue on which it opines—a federal defense to claims already
dismissed on other grounds—can no longer affect the judgment
in this litigation in any way. As such, the question is
indisputably moot, and today’s majority opinion is plainly
advisory. Because the writ of certiorari should be dismissed, I
respectfully dissent.

															I

															Here is the case before us in a nutshell: A
group of plaintiffs sued various state officials under state law.
The defendants raised both state-law and federal-law defenses. In
the interlocutory judgment below, the State Supreme Court rejected
both defenses and remanded for further proceedings. We granted
review to consider the defendants’ federal defense. But then,
in subsequent proceedings, the state court revisited
defendants’ alternative state-law defense and held that it
was meritorious. As a result, the court finally adjudicated the
whole case in the defendants’ favor, dismissing the
plaintiffs’ claims with prejudice.

															This is a straightforward case of mootness. The
federal defense no longer makes any difference to this
case—whether we agree with the defense, disagree with it, or
say nothing at all, the final judgment in this litigation will be
exactly the same. The majority does not seriously contest that
fact. Even so, it asserts jurisdiction to decide this free-floating
defense that affects no live claim for relief, reasoning that a
justiciable case or controversy exists as long as its opinion can
in any way “alter the presently operative statutes
of ” a State. Ante, at 7 (internal quotation
marks omitted). By its own lights, the majority “is acting
not as an Article III court,” Uzuegbunam v.
Preczewski, 592 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (Roberts,
C. J., dissenting) (slip op., at 3), but as an ad hoc
branch of a state legislature. That is emphatically not our job.
Compare U. S. Const., Art. III, §1, with N. C.
Const., Art. II, §1.

															A

															To review the history of this case is to
demonstrate that the question presented is moot. In 2021, the North
Carolina General Assembly passed an Act to redistrict the State for
elections to the U. S. House of Representatives.
Plaintiffs-respondents filed an action in state court, seeking to
enjoin state elections officials (defendants-respondents here) from
conducting elections in accord with the Act.[1] They based their claim for relief on the North
Carolina Constitution, which they argued prohibits excessive
partisan gerrymanders.

															Petitioners, state legislators representing
North Carolina’s interest in the enforcement of the Act, see
N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §1–72.2 (2021); Berger
v. North Carolina State Conference of the NAACP, 597
U. S. ___, ___, ___–___ (2022) (slip op., at 2,
8–9), raised defenses under both state and federal law. As
relevant here, they argued: (1) that partisan-gerrymandering claims
are not justiciable under the North Carolina Constitution; and (2)
that the State Constitution cannot restrict the General
Assembly’s congressional districting legislation under the
federal Elections Clause, U. S. Const., Art. I, §4, cl.
1.

															Initially, a three-judge trial court endorsed
petitioners’ state-law defense and entered a final judgment
dismissing plaintiffs-respondents’ claims with prejudice.
But, on appeal, the North Carolina Supreme Court reversed that
judgment. See Harper v. Hall, 380 N. C. 317, 868
S.E.2d 499 (2022) (Harper I). In Harper I, the court
held that the 2021 Act violated the State Constitution, enjoined
its implementation, and remanded the case to the trial court for
remedial proceedings. In doing so, Harper I rejected both
petitioners’ state-law justiciability defense and their
federal Elections Clause defense.

															Petitioners then sought this Court’s
review of Harper I insofar as it rejected their federal
defense. From the start, they faced a significant jurisdictional
question. Our appellate jurisdiction over state courts is limited
to “[f]inal judgments or decrees rendered by the highest
court of a State in which a decision could be had.” 28
U. S. C. §1257(a). But Harper I was “a
classic example of non-finality”; it was an order that
resolved the issue of liability and remanded for remedial
proceedings. Taylor v. Board of Ed. of City School Dist.
of New Rochelle, 288 F.2d 600, 602 (CA2 1961) (Friendly, J.).
Thus, under the normal rules, Harper I would not be
“reviewable by this Court.” Jefferson v. City
of Tarrant, 522 U.S.
75, 81 (1997).

															Nonetheless, this Court’s precedents have
recognized “a limited set of situations” in which
“finality as to [a] federal issue” permits our
review, even in the absence of a final judgment as to the
case. O’Dell v. Espinoza, 456 U.S.
430 (1982) (per curiam) (emphasis added). In granting
certiorari, we relied on one of those doctrinal exceptions,
premised on the assumption that “the federal issue” in
this case would “survive and require decision regardless of
the outcome of future state-court proceedings.” Cox
Broadcasting Corp. v. Cohn, 420
U.S. 469, 480 (1975).

															As it turned out, that assumption was wrong.
After Harper I, on remand, the trial court adopted a
remedial districting plan for the 2022 elections. Petitioners then
appealed that order, taking the case to the North Carolina Supreme
Court for a second time. Initially, the North Carolina Supreme
Court released an opinion applying Harper I and affirming
the trial court’s decree. Harper v. Hall, 383
N. C. 89, 881 S.E.2d 156 (2022) (Harper II ). But
then, after granting petitioners’ request for rehearing, the
court “revisit[ed] the crucial issue in this case: whether
claims of partisan gerrymandering are justiciable under the state
constitution.” Harper v. Hall, ___ N. C.
___, ___, 886 S.E.2d 393, 399 (2023) (Harper III ).
After reexamining “the fundamental premises underlying the
decisions in both Harper II and Harper I,” the
court “h[e]ld that partisan gerrymandering claims present a
political question that is nonjusticiable under the North Carolina
Constitution.” Id., at ___–___, 886 S. E.
2d, at 400–401. It concluded:

															“This Court’s opinion in
Harper I is overruled. We affirm the three-judge
panel’s [original] 11 January 2022 Judgment concluding,
inter alia, that claims of partisan gerrymandering present
nonjusticiable, political questions and dismissing all of
plaintiffs’ claims with prejudice. This Court’s opinion
in Harper II is withdrawn and superseded by this opinion.
The three-judge panel’s 23 February 2022 order addressing the
Remedial Plans is vacated. Plaintiffs’ claims are dismissed
with prejudice.” Id., at ___, 886 S. E. 2d, at
449.

															In short, this case is over, and petitioners
won. The trial court’s original final judgment in favor of
petitioners, affirmed by the State Supreme Court in Harper
III, represents “the final determination of the rights of
the parties” in this case. N. C. Rule Civ. Proc. 54(a)
(2023). Harper I has been overruled, and
plaintiffs-respondents’ claims for relief have been dismissed
on adequate and independent state-law grounds. As a result,
petitioners’ alternative Elections Clause defense to those
claims no longer requires decision; the merits of that defense
simply have no bearing on the judgment between the parties in this
action. That is the definition of mootness for an issue.

															It follows that no live controversy remains
before this Court. For any case or controversy to exist here,
petitioners must be injured by the judgment below, and we must be
able to redress that injury by acting upon that judgment. See,
e.g., Food Marketing Institute v. Argus Leader
Media, 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 4); see
also Ex parte Bollman, 4 Cranch 75, 86 (1807)
(“The criterion [of] appellate . . . jurisdiction,
is that it revises and corrects the decisions of another
tribunal”). But petitioners are not injured by the judgment
of Harper I at all, nor could we redress any injury to
petitioners by doing anything to it. Whether we accept or reject
petitioners’ Elections Clause defense,
plaintiffs-respondents’ claims remain dismissed. As far as
this case is concerned, there simply is nothing this Court could
decide that could make any difference to who wins or what happens
next in any lower court. That is the definition of mootness for an
appellate proceeding.

															The United States understands this. See
Supplemental Letter Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae
3 (May 11, 2023) (“[T]he question this Court granted
certiorari to decide is now moot because the Court’s
resolution of that question could not affect the disposition of
this case”). So do the elections officials whose conduct
Harper I once enjoined. Supplemental Brief for State
Respondents 1 (May 11, 2023) (“[T]his case is moot”).
So, too, do the plaintiffs-respondents who started this case in the
first place. See Letter Brief for North Carolina League of
Conservation Voters, Inc., et al. 2 (May 11, 2023) (“The
North Carolina Supreme Court’s February 2022 judgment
reversing the same January 11, 2022 trial-court judgment
that the North Carolina Supreme Court just affirmed is now a
nullity”); Supplemental Letter Brief for Rebecca Harper
et al. 1 (May 11, 2023) (“Petitioners have won a full
victory in state court”). As one group of
plaintiffs-respondents put it, “there is no non-frivolous
basis for jurisdiction here.” Ibid.

															B

															The majority does not contest that the
Elections Clause issue in this case was only a defense to
plaintiffs- respondents’ claims for relief. Nor does it deny
that Harper III overruled Harper I and affirmed the
very same trial-court judgment that Harper I had reversed.
And it concedes that, as a result, plaintiffs-respondents’
claims have been dismissed in full on state-law nonjusticiability
grounds. Thus, the majority does not contend that its opinion on
the Elections Clause issue could make any difference to the final
judgment “adjudicating all the claims and the rights and
liabilities of all the parties” in this case. N. C. Rule
Civ. Proc. 54(b). That should be the end of the discussion. Because
the question presented “cannot affect the rights of [the]
litigants in the case before [us],” we “are without
power to decide” it. North Carolina v. Rice,
404 U.S.
244, 246 (1971) (per curiam).

															Nonetheless, the majority finds that the
judgment below still presents a live Article III case or
controversy; it then further concludes that the question presented
has survived and requires decision under Cox
Broadcasting.[2] See
ante, at 6–11. In doing so, it relies extensively on
petitioners’ “representations” that they
“remain bound by the judgment in Harper I.”
Ante, at 10; see also ante, at 5, 7, 11. But, of
course, parties’ mere representations that they are injured
never carry their “burden of demonstrating that they
have standing” in this Court. TransUnion LLC v.
Ramirez, 594 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 15)
(emphasis added). Nor can such representations affect our
“independent obligation to assure ourselves that jurisdiction
is proper before proceeding to the merits.” Plains
Commerce Bank v. Long Family Land & Cattle Co.,
554 U.S.
316, 324 (2008).

															To ensure that it has jurisdiction here, the
majority must explain how petitioners’ federal defense could
still affect “the rights of [the] litigants in th[is]
case.” Rice, 404 U. S., at 246. It fails to do
so. Instead, it mostly points to irrelevant facts about the
procedural history of this case and misapplies civil-procedure
rules as if Harper I and Harper III did not involve
the same case. But the error that actually drives the
majority’s conclusion is much deeper. The majority evidently
thinks that when Harper I held the 2021 Act
unconstitutional, it entered a “judgment” affecting the
2021 Act as a statute, independent of its application to the
legal rights of the litigants in this case. And the majority thinks
that to reverse Harper I ’s
“judgment” would “negate the force of its order
striking down” the Act, thus “alter[ing] the presently
operative statutes of North Carolina.” Ante, at 7
(internal quotation marks omitted). But, of course, the judicial
power does not “operate on legal rules in the
abstract”; it operates on the rights and liabilities of
contending parties with adverse legal interests. California
v. Texas, 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 8)
(internal quotation marks omitted). The majority’s reasoning
cannot be squared with the judicial power vested by the
Constitution, the case-or-controversy requirement, or the nature of
judicial review.

															I start by clearing away some of the brush.
True, Harper III did not expressly “revisit” the
Elections Clause issue, ante, at 6; true as well,
petitioners did not obtain rehearing of Harper I, see
ante, at 7. But none of that matters because Harper
III ’s final judgment mooted the Elections Clause
issue in this case by dismissing plaintiffs-respondents’
claims on alternative state-law grounds.[3] Likewise, the idea that Harper III did not
“alter or amend in any way the judgment in Harper
I,” ante, at 9, is both irrelevant and incorrect.
It is irrelevant because our jurisdiction requires a case,
and this case is over no matter what becomes of the empty
husk of Harper I ’s interlocutory judgment. It is
incorrect because Harper I ’s
judgment—reversing the trial court’s original judgment
and remanding the case—was completely negated by Harper
III ’s affirmance of the same trial-court
judgment.

															In the same vein, the majority’s
suggestion that Harper I has any “res judicata
consequences” is completely inapposite. Ante, at 9
(internal quotation marks omitted). Res judicata is the principle
that “[a] final judgment on the merits of an action”
bars relitigation “in [a] second action” of the same
claim or of issues actually litigated and necessary to the judgment
in the first action. Federated Department Stores, Inc. v.
Moitie, 452 U.S.
394, 398 (1981); see also Taylor v. Sturgell,
553 U.S.
880, 892 (2008). Harper I was not a final judgment (as
the majority concedes by applying Cox Broadcasting), so res
judicata simply has nothing to do with it. Nothing decided by
Harper I was res judicata in the second state-court appeal,
see Southern R. Co. v. Clift, 260
U.S. 316, 319 (1922), nor would Harper I ’s
interlocutory Elections Clause holding have any res judicata effect
in a future action between these parties, see Restatement (Second)
of Judgments §27, and Comment h, and Illus. 13 and 14
(1980) (only issue determinations essential to a final judgment
have preclusive effect; if a defendant obtains a final judgment
based on one defense, the court’s rejection of alternative
defenses is not preclusive in a later action). At the risk of
belaboring the obvious, the clearest proof that Harper I was
not a final judgment is Harper III—which
“revisit[ed]” Harper I ’s
determination of a “crucial issue in this case,” ___
N. C., at ___, 886 S. E. 2d, at 399; overruled Harper
I ’s determination of that issue; and affirmed the
very same final judgment for petitioners that Harper I had
reversed.[4]

															How could petitioners still be injured, and what
more could this Court possibly do for them? The majority suggests
that the interlocutory injunction issued in Harper I still
harms petitioners, see ante, at 7, 10–11, but that
idea is untenable. To start, the majority overlooks that the
injunction only ran against the conduct of defendants-
respondents—the state officials who actually implement
election laws—not petitioners as legislators. See
Berger, 597 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 2). Next, the
majority fails to consider what it would mean if the injunction is
still binding: that defendants-respondents are liable to “be
held in contempt and put in jail” if they ever implement the
2021 Act, Richmond Cty. Bd. of Ed. v. Cowell, 254
N. C. App. 422, 426, 803 S.E.2d 27, 30–31 (2017), even
though Harper III dismissed this suit’s challenge to
the Act as “beyond the reach of [North Carolina’s]
courts,” ___ N. C., at ___, 886 S. E. 2d, at 431
(internal quotation marks omitted). That idea defies both common
sense and civil procedure. A court simply does not go on enforcing
an interlocutory injunction—and imposing contempt sanctions
for disobedience—after reaching a final judgment dismissing
every relevant claim for relief. Rather, the interlocutory
injunction (like all interlocutory orders) merges into the final
judgment fully “adjudicating all the claims and the rights
and liabilities of all the parties” to the
case. N. C. Rule Civ. Proc. 54(b) (emphasis added).
“With the entry of [Harper III ’s] final
judgment, the life of [Harper I ’s] injunction
came to an end, and it no longer ha[s] a binding effect on any
one.” Madison Square Garden Boxing, Inc. v.
Shavers, 562 F.2d 141, 144 (CA2 1977).

															In any event, the majority’s analysis
plainly does not turn on the belief that any defendant remains
liable to potential contempt sanctions and jail time. Instead, its
animating idea (uncritically borrowed from petitioners) is that
Harper I ’s “judgment” operated
against the 2021 Act as a statute. The majority describes
Harper I ’s “judgment”
interchangeably as “enjoining the use of the 2021
ma[p]” and “striking down the 2021 pla[n].”
Ante, at 7, 9. It then reasons that reversing that
“judgment” would “negate the force of its order
striking down the 2021 pla[n],” thus “alter[ing] the
presently operative statutes of North Carolina” such that the
2021 Act would “again take effect.” Ante, at
7–8 (internal quotation marks omitted). The majority regards
this aspect of Harper I ’s “judgment”
as entirely independent of Harper III ’s final
resolution of the claims in this case. See ante, at
5–8, 10–11. And it finds its theory
“confirm[ed]” by a proviso in a remedial redistricting
Act, passed immediately after Harper I, stating that the
2021 Act would “again become effective” if this Court
reversed Harper I. Ante, at 8 (internal quotation
marks omitted). In short, the “case or controversy”
that the majority thinks is still before us has nothing to do with
the parties’ rights and liabilities on the claims asserted in
this action; rather, it is simply whether a particular legislative
Act, which Harper I supposedly made inoperative, will again
be “operative” or “effective” as a state
statute. Ante, at 7–8 (internal quotation marks
omitted).

															This reasoning bears no connection to the
judicial power of this Court or the court below. Judicial power is
the power to adjudicate “definite and concrete”
disputes “touching the legal relations of parties having
adverse legal interests,” Rice, 404 U. S., at 246
(internal quotation marks omitted), by “determin[ing] the
respective rights and liabilities or duties” of the parties
before a court in a particular case, Nicholson v. State
Ed. Assistance Auth., 275 N. C. 439, 447, 
168 S.E.2d 401, 406 (1969). Thus, a judgment binds the rights
of the parties in that case, see Taylor, 553 U. S., at
892–893, and it awards remedies that “operate with
respect to [those] specific parties,” California, 593
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8) (internal quotation marks
omitted). In deciding any case, the court must “ascertai[n]
and declar[e] the law applicable to the controversy”; this
duty, in turn, implies “the negative power to disregard an
unconstitutional enactment” in deciding the case.
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262
U.S. 447, 488 (1923); accord, Nicholson, 275 N. C.,
at 447, 168 S. E. 2d, at 406; Marbury v.
Madison, 1 Cranch 137, 176–178 (1803). But this
negative power of judicial review is not a “power
per se to review and annul acts of [legislation] on the
ground that they are unconstitutional,” Mellon, 262
U. S., at 488; “to change or to repeal statutes,”
Person v. Doughton, 186 N. C. 723, 725, 120 S.E.
481, 483 (1923); or to issue orders that “operate on legal
rules in the abstract,” California, 593 U. S., at
___ (slip op., at 8) (internal quotation marks omitted). Courts of
law simply do not render “judgments” that toggle
statutes from “operative” to “inoperative”
and back again, as if judicial review were some sort of
in rem jurisdiction over legislative Acts.

															Indeed, such a conception would contradict the
most basic premise of judicial review itself. “[A]n
unconstitutional provision is never really part of the body
of governing law,” for “the Constitution automatically
displaces [it] from the moment of [its] enactment.”
Collins v. Yellen, 594 U. S. ___, ___ (2021)
(slip op., at 35) (emphasis added). Thus, when a court holds a
statute unconstitutional, it is emphatically not depriving it of
any legal force that it previously possessed as an Act. The court
is only deciding “a particular case” “conformably
to the constitution, disregarding” a statute that cannot
“govern the case” because it is already
“void.” Marbury, 1 Cranch, at 178; accord,
Bayard v. Singleton, 1 N. C. 5, 7 (1787)
(holding that the unconstitutional “act on which [a
party’s] motion was grounded . . . must of course,
in that instance, stand as abrogated and without any
effect”). “That is the classic explanation for the
basis of judicial review” set forth in Marbury and
Bayard, and it remains “from that day to this the sole
continuing rationale for the exercise of this judicial
power.” Mackey v. United States, 401 U.S.
667, 678 (1971) (Harlan, J., concurring in judgment in part and
dissenting in part).

															The majority’s theory thus fails twice
over, both as a description of Harper I ’s
“judgment” and as an explanation of how any justiciable
controversy could exist in this Court. The only power that the
North Carolina courts exercised at any stage of this case was that
of “determin[ing] the respective rights and liabilities or
duties of litigants in [the] controversy” before them.
Nicholson, 275 N. C., at 447, 168 S. E. 2d, at
406. Harper I ’s judgment line did not read:
“Stricken down,” referring to the 2021 Act, but
instead: “Reversed and remanded,” referring to the
lower court judgment and the case between these parties. 380
N. C., at 404, 868 S. E. 2d, at 560 (some capitalization
deleted). The judicial power operates upon parties and cases, not
statutes, and Harper I was no exception.[5]

															Even if it were, we would still have no case or
controversy in front of us. A freestanding “judgment”
of statutory invalidation—neutralizing the 2021 Act in some
manner transcending the final determination of the parties’
respective rights in this case—would not be a judicial action
within the meaning of Article III, and it could not be reviewed in
this Court. See Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co.,
211 U.S.
210, 226–227 (1908). “We sit as a court of law, not
a council of revision,” and “[o]ur powers of judicial
review are judicial, not legislative, in nature.”
Mackey, 401 U. S., at 697 (opinion of Harlan, J.). The
only power that we ever could have exercised here was to modify the
adjudicated rights and liabilities of the parties with respect to
the claims in this action. Because we plainly cannot do so, no
matter what we think about the Elections Clause, this proceeding is
moot. And the idea that we could still decide petitioners’
moot federal defense because it could “alter the presently
operative statutes of North Carolina”—even if it cannot
affect the ultimate judgment in this action—is wholly foreign
to Article III. Ante, at 7 (internal quotation marks
omitted).

															In that light, the post-Harper I remedial
Act and its “trigger provisio[n]” plainly can make no
difference to our jurisdiction or lack thereof. Ante, at 8.
When passed, that Act was essentially a change in the State’s
conduct under judicial constraint (the result of Harper
I ), but with the declared intention of resuming the
original conduct if that constraint were removed. That declaration
kept the controversy alive while the constraint still existed, as
in Hunt v. Cromartie, 526 U.S.
541, 545, n. 1 (1999). But, after Harper III, there is
no more constraint in this case. Harper I has been
overruled, and plaintiffs-respondents’ claims have been
dismissed in a final judgment. Nothing about this case prevents the
State from either enacting or implementing any districting plan. If
“the presently operative statutes of North Carolina”
need to be “alter[ed],” that is the General
Assembly’s job, not ours. Ante, at 7 (internal
quotation marks omitted). Regardless, petitioners have fully
prevailed in this case, and plaintiffs-respondents have not
obtained any enforceable relief that could affect the conduct of
future elections.

															Indeed, to the extent the trigger provision adds
anything to the majority’s analysis, it only underscores the
absence of a justiciable case or controversy.[6] A state legislature is free to condition the
effectiveness of a change in state law on external events,
including this Court’s actions in cases properly before it.
But, as should be obvious, such a trigger provision cannot be the
entire basis of an Article III case or controversy. Where, as here,
the Court cannot affect the adjudicated rights and liabilities of
the parties in the case below, a state legislature cannot
manufacture a justiciable controversy by providing that state law
will change in some way depending on how this Court answers a moot
question. That would simply be a roundabout way of asking this
Court to render an advisory opinion. But “federal courts
cannot give answers simply because someone asks.”
Uzuegbunam, 592 U. S., at ___ (Roberts, C. J.,
dissenting) (slip op., at 12). That is true when the request comes
from Congress, see Muskrat v. United States,
219 U.S.
346, 360–361 (1911), and it is equally true when the
request comes from a state legislature.[7]

															In sum, there is no issue before this Court that
can affect the judgment in this action. As such, the question
presented is moot, and the writ of certiorari should be
dismissed.

															II

															I would gladly stop there. The
majority’s views on the merits of petitioners’ moot
Elections Clause defense are of far less consequence than its
mistaken belief that Article III authorizes any merits conclusion
in this case, and I do not wish to belabor a question that we have
no jurisdiction to decide. Nonetheless, I do not find the
majority’s merits reasoning persuasive.

															The Elections Clause of the Constitution
provides that “[t]he Times, Places and Manner of holding
Elections for Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in
each State by the Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any
time by Law make or alter such Regulations, except as to the Places
of chusing Senators.” Art. I, §4, cl. 1. The
question presented was whether the people of a State can place
state-constitutional limits on the times, places, and manners of
holding congressional elections that “the Legislature”
of the State has the power to prescribe. Petitioners said no. Their
position rests on three premises, from which the conclusion
follows.

															The first premise is that “the people of a
single State” lack any ability to limit powers “given
by the people of the United States” as a whole.
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 429 (1819). This
idea should be uncontroversial, as it is “the unavoidable
consequence of th[e] supremacy” of the Federal Constitution
and laws. Id., at 436. As the Court once put it (in a case
about the Article V ratifying power of state legislatures),
“a federal function derived from the Federal Constitution
. . . transcends any limitations sought to be imposed by
the people of a State.” Leser v. Garnett,
258 U.S.
130, 137 (1922).

															The second premise is that regulating the times,
places, and manner of congressional elections
“ ‘is no original prerogative of state
power,’ ” so that “such power ‘had to
be delegated to, rather than reserved by, the
States.’ ” Cook v. Gralike,
531 U.S.
510, 522 (2001) (first quoting 1 J. Story, Commentaries on the
Constitution of the United States §627 (3d ed. 1858) (Story);
then quoting U. S. Term Limits, Inc. v.
Thornton, 514 U.S.
779, 804 (1995)). This premise is firmly supported by this
Court’s precedents, which have also held that the Elections
Clause is “the exclusive delegation of ” such
power, as “[n]o other constitutional provision gives the
States authority over congressional elections.” Cook,
531 U. S., at 522–523; see also United States v.
Classic, 313 U.S.
299, 315 (1941) (“While, in a loose sense, the right to
vote for representatives in Congress is sometimes spoken of as a
right derived from the states, this statement is true only in the
sense that the states are authorized by the Constitution, to
legislate on the subject as provided by [the Elections
Clause]” (citations omitted)).

															The third premise is that “the Legislature
thereof ” does not mean the people of the State or the
State as an undifferentiated body politic, but, rather, the
lawmaking power as it exists under the State Constitution. This
premise comports with the usual constitutional meanings of the
words “State” and “Legislature,” as well as
this Court’s precedents. “A state, and the legislature
of a state, are quite different political beings.” Story
§628. “A state, in the ordinary sense of the
Constitution, is a political community of free citizens
. . . organized under a government sanctioned and limited
by a written constitution.” Texas v. White, 7
Wall. 700, 721 (1869).
“ ‘Legislature,’ ” on the other
hand, generally means “ ‘the representative body
which ma[kes] the laws of the people.’ ”
Smiley v. Holm, 285 U.S.
355, 365 (1932) (quoting Hawke v. Smith,
253 U.S.
221, 227 (1920)).

															To be sure, the precise constitutional
significance of the word “Legislature” depends on
“the function to be performed” under the provision in
question. Smiley, 285 U. S., at 365. Because “the
function contemplated by” the Elections Clause “is that
of making laws,” id., at 366, this Court’s
Elections Clause cases have consistently looked to a State’s
written constitution to determine the constitutional actors in whom
lawmaking power is vested. See Arizona State Legislature v.
Arizona Independent Redistricting Comm’n, 576 U.S.
787, 795–796, 814 (2015); Smiley, 285 U. S., at
363; Ohio ex rel. Davis v. Hildebrant, 241 U.S.
565, 566–568 (1916).[8] The definitions that most precisely explain this
Court’s holdings were given in a state-court case that
anticipated Hildebrant and Smiley by several years:
“[T]he word ‘Legislature,’ as used in [the
Elections Clause] means the lawmaking body or power of the state,
as established by the state Constitution,” or, put
differently, “that body of persons within a state clothed
with authority to make the laws.” State ex rel.
Schrader v. Polley, 26 S. D. 5, 10–11, 127
N.W. 848, 850–851 (1910).

															If these premises hold, then petitioners’
conclusion follows: In prescribing the times, places, and manner of
congressional elections, “the lawmaking body or power of the
state, as established by the state Constitution,” id.,
at 10, 127 N. W., at 850, performs “a federal function
derived from the Federal Constitution,” which thus
“transcends any limitations sought to be imposed by the
people of a State,” Leser, 258 U. S., at 137. As
shown, each premise is easily supported and consistent with this
Court’s precedents. Petitioners’ conclusion also
mirrors the Court’s interpretation of parallel language in
the Electors Clause[9] in
McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U.S. 1
(1892): “[T]he words, ‘in such manner as the
legislature thereof may direct,’ ”
“operat[e] as a limitation upon the State in respect of any
attempt to circumscribe the legislative power.” Id.,
at 25.[10]

															The majority rejects petitioners’
conclusion, but seemingly without rejecting any of the premises
from which that conclusion follows. Its apparent
rationale—that Hildebrant, Smiley, and
Arizona State Legislature have already foreclosed
petitioners’ argument—is untenable, as it requires
disregarding a principled distinction between the issues in those
cases and the question presented here. In those cases, the relevant
state-constitutional provisions addressed the allocation of
lawmaking power within each State; they defined what acts,
performed by which constitutional actors, constituted an
“exercise of the lawmaking power.” Smiley, 285
U. S., at 364; cf. U. S. Const., Art. I, §7,
cl. 2 (describing the processes upon completion of which a
bill “become[s] a Law”). In other words, those cases
addressed how to identify “the Legislature” of each
State. But, nothing in their holdings speaks at all to whether the
people of a State can impose substantive limits on the times,
places, and manners that a procedurally complete exercise of the
lawmaking power may validly prescribe. These are simply different
questions: “There is a difference between how and
what.” J. Kirby, Limitations on the Power of State
Legislatures Over Presidential Elections, 27 Law & Contemp.
Prob. 495, 503 (1962).

															This is not an arbitrary distinction, but one
rooted in the logic of petitioners’ argument. No one here
contends that the Elections Clause creates state
legislatures or defines “the legislative process” in
any State. Smiley, 285 U. S., at 369. Thus, while the
Elections Clause confers a lawmaking power, “the exercise of
th[at] authority must” follow “the method which the
State has prescribed for legislative enactments.” Id.,
at 367. But, if the power in question is not original to the people
of each State and is conferred upon the constituted legislature of
the State, then it follows that the people of the State may not
dictate what laws can be enacted under that power—precisely
as they may not dictate what constitutional amendments their
legislatures can ratify under Article V. See Leser, 258
U. S., at 137.[11]
Accordingly, if petitioners’ premises hold, then state
constitutions may specify who constitute “the
Legislature” and prescribe how legislative power is
exercised, but they cannot control what substantive laws can
be made for federal elections.

															The majority indicates that it does not perceive
this distinction between “substantive” and
“procedural” rules, see ante, at
23–24,[12]
illustrating its doubts with a rhetorical question: “When a
governor vetoes a bill because of a disagreement with its policy
consequences, has the governor exercised a procedural or
substantive restraint on lawmaking?” Ante, at 24. The
answer is straightforward: The power of approving or vetoing bills
is “a part of the legislative process” because it is
“a part in the making of state laws.” Smiley,
285 U. S., at 368–369; see also INS v.
Chadha, 462 U.S.
919, 933, 951, 954, 957, n. 22, 958 (1983) (repeatedly
referring to bicameralism and presentment as the
“procedure” or “procedures” of lawmaking).
A Governor’s motives for vetoing a certain bill are
irrelevant to the effect of the veto as part of the legislative
process, just as the motives that may lead one house of the
legislature to reject a bill passed by the other house are
irrelevant to the effect of its doing so. Put simply, when this
power is conferred on the Governor of a State, it “makes him
in effect a third branch of the legislature.” T.
Cooley, General Principles of Constitutional Law 50 (1880)
(emphasis added); accord, Arizona State Legislature, 576
U. S., at 833 (Roberts, C. J., dissenting) (noting that
“approving [and] vetoing bills” are “legislative
functions”); Chadha, 462 U. S., at 947
(explaining that “lawmaking” is “a power
. . . shared by both Houses and the President”);
La Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United States, 175 U.S.
423, 453 (1899) (noting that Presidential approval “is
legislative in its nature”); cf. 1 W. Blackstone,
Commentaries on the Laws of England 150 (1765) (“[T]he king
is himself a part of the parliament”). This is a question of
who, not what, and thus is “a matter of state
polity” as far as the Elections Clause is concerned.
Smiley, 285 U. S., at 368.

															But substantive constraints on what the
lawmaking power can do (gubernatorial approval included) demand an
entirely different justification—one that the majority never
provides. It does not overrule Cook and Thornton to
hold that the power to prescribe times, places, and manners for
congressional elections is an original power of the people of each
State. Nor does it hold that the people are themselves “the
Legislature” to which the Federal Constitution delegates that
power. See ante, at 17–18. Indeed, the majority
devotes little attention to the source and recipient of the power
described in the Elections Clause, notwithstanding their direct
relevance to the question presented.

															Instead, the majority focuses on the power of
state courts to exercise “judicial review” of Elections
Clause legislation. See ante, at 11–15, 26–30.
But that power sheds no light on the question presented. In every
case properly before it, any court—state or
federal—must ascertain and apply the substantive law that
properly governs that case. Thus, the court naturally must apply
the Federal Constitution rather than any statute in conflict with
it. The court must also apply the state constitution over any
conflicting statute enacted under a power limited by that
constitution. Petitioners’ argument, however, is that
legislation about the times, places, and manner of congressional
elections is not limited by state
constitutions—because the power to regulate those subjects
comes from the Federal Constitution, not the people of the State.
Right or wrong, this question has nothing to do with whether state
courts have the power to conduct judicial review in the first
place. To say that “state judicial review” authorizes
applying state constitutions over conflicting Elections Clause
legislation, ante, at 15, is simply to assume away
petitioners’ argument.

															III

															The majority opinion ends with some general
advice to state and lower federal courts on how to exercise
“judicial review” “in cases implicating the
Elections Clause.” Ante, at 28. As the majority offers
no clear rationale for its interpretation of the Clause, it is
impossible to be sure what the consequences of that interpretation
will be. However, judging from the majority’s brief sketch of
the regime it envisions, I worry that today’s opinion
portends serious troubles ahead for the Judiciary.

															The majority uses the separate writings in
Bush v. Gore, 531 U.S.
98 (2000) (per curiam), as a loose touchstone for the
kind of judicial review that it apparently expects federal courts
to conduct in future cases like this one. On its face, this is an
awkward analogy, for there is a significant difference between
Bush and Harper I. In Bush, the state
court’s judgment was based on an interpretation of state
statutory law, enacted by the state legislature. Thus, the relevant
Electors Clause question was whether, in doing so, the state court
had departed from “the clearly expressed intent of the
legislature,” 531 U. S., at 120 (Rehnquist, C. J.,
concurring), “impermissibly distort[ing]” the
legislature’s enactments “beyond what a fair reading
required,” id., at 115. In Harper I, by
contrast, there was no doubt that the state court departed from the
clearly expressed intent of the legislature; it rejected the
legislature’s enactment as unconstitutional.

															By doing so, today’s majority concludes,
Harper I did not commit per se error, as the
Elections Clause permits state courts to apply substantive
state-constitutional provisions to the times, places, and manner of
federal elections. At the same time, state courts are warned that
they operate under federal-court supervision, lest they
“transgress the ordinary bounds of judicial review such that
they arrogate to themselves the power vested in state legislatures
to regulate federal elections.” Ante, at 29. Thus,
under the majority’s framework, it seems clear that the
statutory- interpretation review forecast in Bush (or some
version of it) is to be extended to state constitutional
law.

															In this way, the majority opens a new field for
Bush-style controversies over state election law—and a
far more uncertain one. Though some state constitutions are more
“proli[x]” than the Federal Constitution, it is still a
general feature of constitutional text that “only its great
outlines should be marked.” McCulloch, 4 Wheat., at
407. When “it is a constitution [courts] are
expounding,” ibid., not a detailed statutory scheme,
the standards to judge the fairness of a given interpretation are
typically fewer and less definite.

															Nonetheless, the majority’s framework
appears to demand that federal courts develop some generalized
concept of “the bounds of ordinary judicial review,”
ante, at 28; apply it to the task of constitutional
interpretation within each State; and make that concept their rule
of decision in some of the most politically acrimonious and
fast-moving cases that come before them. In many cases, it is
difficult to imagine what this inquiry could mean in theory, let
alone practice. For example, suppose that we were reviewing
Harper I under this framework. Perhaps we could have
determined that reading justiciable prohibitions against partisan
gerrymandering into the North Carolina Constitution exceeded the
bounds of ordinary judicial review in North Carolina; perhaps not.
If not, then, in order to ensure that Harper I had not
“arrogate[d]” the power of regulating federal
elections, ante, at 29, we would presumably have needed to
ask next whether it exceeded the bounds of ordinary judicial review
in North Carolina to find that the specific congressional map
here violated those prohibitions. After all, in
constitutional judgments of this kind, it can be difficult to
separate the rule from the fact pattern to which the rule is
applied. We have held, however, that federal courts are not
equipped to judge partisan-gerrymandering questions at all.
Rucho v. Common Cause, 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019)
(slip op., at 30). It would seem to follow, a fortiori,
that they are not equipped to judge whether a state court’s
partisan-gerrymandering determination surpassed “the bounds
of ordinary judicial review.”

															Even in cases that do not involve a
justiciability mismatch, the majority’s advice invites
questions of the most far-reaching scope. What are
“the bounds of ordinary judicial review”? What methods
of constitutional interpretation do they allow? Do those methods
vary from State to State? And what about stare
decisis—are federal courts to review state courts’
treatment of their own precedents for some sort of abuse of
discretion? The majority’s framework would seem to require
answers to all of these questions and more.

															In the end, I fear that this framework will have
the effect of investing potentially large swaths of state
constitutional law with the character of a federal question not
amenable to meaningful or principled adjudication by federal
courts. In most cases, it seems likely that the “the bounds
of or- dinary judicial review” will be a forgiving standard
in practice, and this federalization of state constitutions will
serve mainly to swell federal-court dockets with state-
constitutional questions to be quickly resolved with generic
statements of deference to the state courts. On the other hand,
there are bound to be exceptions. They will arise haphazardly, in
the midst of quickly evolving, politically charged controversies,
and the winners of federal elections may be decided by a federal
court’s expedited judgment that a state court exceeded
“the bounds of ordinary judicial review” in construing
the state constitution.

															I would hesitate long before committing the
Federal Judiciary to this uncertain path. And I certainly would not
do so in an advisory opinion, in a moot case, where “the only
function remaining to the court is that of announcing the fact and
dismissing the cause.” Ex parte McCardle, 7 Wall. 506,
514 (1869).

															I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 Technically, there were
two state-court actions below. These actions have been consolidated
at every stage and can be regarded as one action for all relevant
purposes. For simplicity, I will use the singular. Also for
simplicity, I focus here on plaintiffs-respondents’ challenge
to the 2021 congressional districting map, putting aside their
parallel challenges to the Assembly’s 2021 State House and
State Senate maps.
2
 In this case, these two
inquiries are identical, making the majority’s bifurcated
analysis somewhat artificial. To say that an issue “will
survive and require decision,” as Cox Broadcasting
uses the phrase, simply means that it will not become moot,
generally through some other issue independently resolving the case
(precisely what happened here). See, e.g., Pierce
County v. Guillen, 537 U.S.
129, 141, n. 5 (2003); Florida v. Thomas,
532 U.S.
774, 779 (2001); Jefferson v. City of Tarrant,
522 U.S.
75, 82–83 (1997); Cox Broadcasting, 420
U. S., at 478, 480–481, and n. 9.
3
 Incidentally, the
majority seriously errs when it says that Harper III
“reaffirmed” Harper I ’s Elections
Clause holding, ante, at 9, apparently referencing Harper
III ’s statement that “[t]he General Assembly
exercises [redistricting] authority subject to the express
limitations in our constitution and in federal law,” ___
N. C., at ___, 886 S. E. 2d, at 422; see also
ante, at 6. The only “express limitations”
Harper III meant were “Article II, Sections 3 and
5,” of the State Constitution, which address only
state-legislative districts. ___ N. C., at ___, 886 S. E.
2d, at 422. As Harper III acknowledged, “there is no
provision in the state constitution regarding redistricting of
congressional districts.” Id., at ___, 886 S. E.
2d, at 419. To the extent that Harper III suggests any view
about whether such provisions would be binding if they existed, it
seems to suggest agreement with petitioners. See ibid.
(“The Federal Constitution . . . commits drawing of
congressional districts to the state legislatures subject to
oversight by the Congress of the United States”). But, of
course, Harper III had no need to decide that question,
because its state-law justiciability holding fully determined the
judgment in this action, thus mooting petitioners’
alternative Elections Clause defense.
4
 These facts refute the
majority’s dismissive reference to Harper III as
“a distinct decision concerning remedies,” as well as
any suggestion that Harper III was “another
case” than Harper I for res judicata purposes.
Ante, at 9–10 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Harper I and Harper III involved exactly the same
case, and there is “only one final judgment per case.”
Chaka v. Lane, 894 F.2d 923, 924 (CA7 1990)
(Easterbrook, J.); see also Insurance Co. v. Dunn, 19
Wall. 214, 225 (1874) (“To say that there can be two
final judgments upon the same pleadings, in the same cause, in the
same court, . . . involves a solecism”). In this
case, it was not Harper I.
5
 Nor did Harper
III, despite agreeing with petitioners in all other respects,
anywhere endorse their belief that some “order striking down
the 2021 [Act]” would survive a decision overruling Harper
I and dismissing this lawsuit with prejudice. Ante, at 5
(internal quotation marks omitted). To the extent that the majority
imputes that idea to Harper III, it again seriously misreads
that decision. See n. 3, supra. The majority states
that Harper III “did not reinstate the 2021
congressional pla[n] that Harper I had struck down.”
Ante, at 5 (citing Harper III, ___ N. C., at
___–___, 886 S. E. 2d, at 446–448). But the part
of Harper III that the majority cites had nothing to do with
North Carolina’s congressional plan. Instead, it considered
whether two state-constitutional provisions, which require that
state-legislature districting plans “remain
unaltered” until the next census after they have become
“established,” N. C. Const., Art. II,
§§3(4) and 5(4), prevented the Assembly from revising the
2021 state plans that Harper I had rejected. See Harper
III, ___ N. C., at ___–___, 886 S. E. 2d, at
446–448. In determining that the 2021 state plans were never
“established,” Harper III did not mean that
Harper I somehow still restrains those plans; rather, it
indicated that those plans themselves do not restrain the
Assembly going forward. Absolutely nothing in Harper III
suggests that the North Carolina Supreme Court’s judgments
act directly upon legislative enactments—“striking them
down” today and “reinstating” them
tomorrow—or that the 2021 congressional map remains subject
to any restraint left over from Harper I.
6
 I assume here that the
majority is reading the provision correctly, though it is far from
clear that this is actually the case. As relevant, the provision
stated that the remedial redistricting plan “is effective
contingent upon its approval or adoption by the [trial
court],” “unless the United States Supreme Court or any
other federal court reverses or stays [Harper I ]
. . . (or [Harper I ] is otherwise enjoined,
made inoperable, or ineffective), and in such case [the 2021 Act]
is again effective.” 2022 N. C. Sess. Laws 3,
p. 10, §2. The majority’s reading is based on three
suppositions that it does not justify. The first is that this
provision has any reference at all to events after the 2022
elections, to which the remedial Act was exclusively directed. The
second is that the dependent clause following “unless”
is applicable even though, under the main clause, the remedial plan
was never “adopt[ed]” by the trial court and thus never
became “effective.” The third is that Harper III
did not “otherwise . . . ma[ke]” Harper
I “inoperable, or ineffective.”
7
 The idea of deciding an
issue to determine whether a statute shall be effective is not
unprecedented, but the precedents do not aid the majority. At
times, state legislatures have enacted laws contingent on
state-court opinions approving their constitutionality—in
fact, such legislation produced the first two opinions addressing
the Elections Clause question here (which both reached the opposite
conclusion from today’s majority). See Act No. 5, 1863 Vt.
Acts & Resolves p. 7, approved, Opinion of Judges, 37
Vt. 665 (1864); 1864 N. H. Laws p. 3061, approved, In re
Opinions of Justices, 45 N. H. 595 (1864); see also In
re Plurality Elections, 15 R. I. 617, 8 A. 881 (1887)
(similar situation and conclusion). Those opinions have always been
understood as “advisory opinions.” See, e.g.,
In re Constitutionality of House Bill 88, 115 Vt. 524,
528–529, 64 A.2d 169, 171–172 (1949); Goodell v.
Judith Basin County, 70 Mont. 222, 231, 224 P. 1110, 1112
(1924). Such advisory opinions may be authorized by some state
constitutions, but Article III gives this Court no such
power.
8
 The only complications
with this approach have arisen where a State Constitution did not
vest the legislative power wholly in a single representative body,
as the Federal Constitution appears to presuppose. Thus, in
Hildebrant, the Court rejected as nonjusticiable an argument
“that to include the referendum within state legislative
power for the purpose of apportionment” was “repugnant
to” the Elections Clause. 241 U. S., at 569. Somewhat
similarly, in Arizona State Legislature, the Court faced a
State Constitution “in which the people of a State exercise
legislative power coextensive with the authority of an
institutional legislature,” 576 U. S., at 819, with the
majority “see[ing] no constitutional barrier to a
State’s empowerment of its people by embracing that form of
lawmaking,” id., at 808–809. As relevant to
identifying the State’s “Legislature,” the
majority opinion emphasized that Arizona’s written
Constitution “ ‘establishes the electorate of
Arizona as a coordinate source of legislation’ on equal
footing with the representative legislative body,”
id., at 795 (alteration omitted), and thus held that
“lawmaking power in Arizona includes the initiative
process,” id., at 793; see also id., at 814. No
such complications exist in North Carolina, where the State
Constitution simply provides that “[t]he legislative power of
the State shall be vested in the General Assembly.” Art. II,
§1.
9
 The Electors Clause
provides that “[e]ach State shall appoint, in such Manner as
the Legislature thereof may direct, a Number of Electors” for
the election of the President and Vice President. Art. II, §1,
cl. 2.
10  Contrary to the majority’s
suggestion of ambiguity, see ante, at 20, this statement can
only have meant that the state legislature’s power to direct
the manner of appointing electors may not be limited by the state
constitution. No other “limitation upon the State” is
possible, for, as the McPherson Court said just a few
sentences earlier, “the constitution of the State” is
the only “authority” that ordinarily
“limit[s]” “[t]he legislative power.” 146
U. S., at 25.
11  The
majority states that Smiley “already
distinguished” Leser as involving a nonlawmaking
function. Ante, at 21. But Smiley distinguished the
“electoral,” “ratifying,” and
“consenting” functions of state legislatures from their
“lawmaking” function under the Elections Clause, 285
U. S., at 365–366, only to explain why the last function
must be “exercise[d] . . . in accordance with the
[State’s] method . . . for legislative
enactments,” id., at 367, including “the
participation of the Governor wherever the state constitution
provided for such participation as part of the process of making
laws,” id., at 370. Nothing in Smiley even
hints that a federally delegated power fails to “transcen[d]
limitations sought to be imposed by the people of a State”
simply because it is a lawmaking function. Leser, 258
U. S., at 137.
12  This
admission carries troubling implications for other fields, as
comparable “distinction[s] between procedure and substance
[are] not unknown in the law.” United States v.
Kras, 409 U.S.
434, 463, n. 6 (1973) (Marshall, J., dissenting). For example,
our habeas corpus jurisprudence has long distinguished
“substantive” constitutional rules from
“procedural” ones. Schriro v. Summerlin,
542 U.S.
348, 352, 353 (2004). Our sentencing appellate review
jurisprudence similarly recognizes a distinction between the
“procedura[l] sound[ness]” of a sentencing decision and
“the substantive reasonableness of the sentence
imposed.” Gall v. United States, 552 U.S.
38, 51 (2007). And, no less essential a statute than the Rules
Enabling Act presupposes a meaningful distinction between
“rules of practice and procedure” and matters of
“substantive right.” 28 U. S. C.
§§2072(a) and (b). Indeed, the constitutionality of the
Act rests upon this very distinction. See Hanna v.
Plumer, 380 U.S.
460, 470–472 (1965); Sibbach v. Wilson &
Co., 312 U.S.
1, 9–10 (1941).


