::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1052
::decision_name::  United States ex rel. Polansky v. Executive Health Resources, Inc.
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1052

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, ex rel. JESSE POLANSKY,
M.D., M.P.H., PETITIONER v. EXECUTIVE HEALTH RESOURCES,
INC., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the third circuit

															[June 16, 2023]

															

															Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															The False Claims Act (FCA), 31
U. S. C. §§3729–3733, imposes civil
liability on any person who presents false or fraudulent claims for
payment to the Federal Government. The statute is unusual in
authorizing private parties—known as relators—to sue on
the Government’s behalf. When a relator files a complaint,
the Government gets an initial opportunity to intervene in the
case. If the Government does so, it takes the lead role. If not,
that responsibility falls to the relator, the only person then
pressing the suit. But even when that is so, the Government retains
certain rights, including the right to intervene later upon a
showing of good cause.

															The questions presented here concern the
Government’s ability to dismiss an FCA suit over a
relator’s objection. Everyone agrees that if the Government
intervenes at the suit’s start, it can later move to dismiss.
But the parties dispute whether, or in what circumstances, the same
is true if the Government declines its initial chance to intervene.
And the parties disagree as well about the standard district courts
should use in deciding whether to grant a Government motion to
dismiss.

															Today, we hold that the Government may seek
dismissal of an FCA action over a relator’s objection so long
as it intervened sometime in the litigation, whether at the outset
or afterward. We also hold that in handling such a motion, district
courts should apply the rule generally governing voluntary
dismissal of suits: Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 41(a).

															I

															A

															The FCA dates to the Civil War, when a
Congressional committee uncovered “stupendous abuses”
in the sale of provisions and munitions to the War Department.
H. R. Rep. No. 2, 37th Cong., 2d Sess., pt. 2, p. II
(1861). Testimony before Congress “painted a sordid picture
of how the United States had been billed for nonexistent or
worthless goods, charged exorbitant prices for goods delivered, and
generally robbed in purchasing the necessities of war.”
United States v. McNinch, 356
U.S. 595, 599 (1958). To put a stop to the plunder—and
more generally, to “protect the funds and property of the
Government”—Congress enacted the FCA. Rainwater
v. United States, 356 U.S.
590, 592 (1958). The Act, then as now, imposed civil liability
for many deceptive practices meant to appropriate government
assets.

															From the start, the FCA has been enforced
through a unique public-private scheme. Federal prosecutors may of
course sue an alleged violator, all on their own. See 31
U. S. C. §3730(a). But private parties—again,
relators—may also sue, in so-called qui tam
actions. Those suits are “brought in the name of the
Government.” §3730(b)(1).[1] And the injury they assert is exclusively to the
Government. A qui tam suit, this Court has explained,
alleges both an “injury to the [Government’s]
sovereignty arising from violation of its laws” and an injury
to its “proprietary [interests] resulting from [a]
fraud.” Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v.
United States ex rel. Stevens, 529 U.S.
765, 771 (2000). But in one important sense, a
qui tam suit is, as the statute puts it,
“for” both the relator and the Government.
§3730(b)(1) (describing the action as “for the person
and for the United States”). The FCA, we have explained,
“effect[s] a partial assignment of the
Government’s” own damages claim. Id., at 773. If
the action leads to a recovery, the relator may receive up to 30%
of the total. See §§3730(d)(1)–(2).

															Because the relator is no ordinary civil
plaintiff, he is immediately subject to special restrictions. He
must file his complaint under seal, and serve both “[a]
copy” and supporting “material evidence” on the
Government alone. §3730(b)(2). The Government then has 60 days
(often extended for “good cause”) to decide whether to
“intervene and proceed with the action.”
§§3730(b)(2)–(3). If the Government, during that
so-called seal period, elects to intervene, the relator loses
control: The action then “shall be conducted by the
Government,” though the relator can continue as a party in a
secondary role. §§3730(b)(4)(A), (c)(1). Only if the
Government passes on intervention does the relator “have the
right to conduct the action.” §3730(b)(4)(B).

															And even then, the relator is not home free. The
Government, after all, is a “real party in interest” in
a qui tam action. United States ex rel.
Eisenstein v. City of New York, 556
U.S. 928, 930 (2009). So Congress gave the Government
continuing rights in the action—not least the right to the
lion’s share of the recovery. Most relevant here, the
Government can intervene after the seal period ends, so long as it
shows good cause to do so. See §3730(c)(3).

															The main issue here is whether the Government,
if it has declined to intervene during the seal period, retains yet
another right: the right to dismiss a qui tam action
over the relator’s objection. The FCA gives the Government
unilateral authority to dismiss in at least some circumstances.
Section 3730(c)(2)(A)—which we’ll call Subparagraph
(2)(A) for short—provides that “[t]he Government may
dismiss the action notwithstanding the objections of the
[relator],” so long as the relator has received notice of the
motion and an opportunity for a hearing. Nothing in the statute,
however, expressly states whether (or when) that authority survives
the Government’s decision to let the seal period lapse
without intervening.

															The competing arguments on that score hinge
significantly on surrounding provisions—more precisely, on
how Subparagraph (2)(A) fits into the rest of §3730(c). That
subsection addresses the “Rights of the
Parties”—the Government, the relator, and (more
briefly) the defendant. It contains four relevant paragraphs, which
we summarize in order. (Those who believe in verification may refer
to this opinion’s appendix, which lays out all of
§3730’s relevant text.) A helpful hint to start with:
You might want to pay attention to what each paragraph
says—or not—about when it applies.

															Paragraph 1 applies, as its first clause states,
“[i]f the Government proceeds with the action.”
§3730(c)(1). In that event, the Government “shall have
the primary responsibility for prosecuting the action, and shall
not be bound by an act of the [relator].” Ibid. The
relator still can “continue as a party”—file
motions, conduct discovery, and so forth—but only
“subject to the limitations set forth in paragraph
(2).” Ibid.

															Paragraph 2 then spells out certain rights of
the Government. You have already seen Subparagraph (2)(A), enabling
the Government to dismiss an action over the relator’s
objection (after notice and opportunity for a hearing).
Subparagraph (2)(B) is similar. It allows the Government to settle
an action “notwithstanding [the relator’s]
objections,” so long as the court finds after a hearing that
the settlement is fair and reasonable. §3730(c)(2)(B).
Finally, subparagraphs (2)(C) and (2)(D) allow the court to limit
the relator’s “participation” in the
case—because (among other reasons) it would “interfere
with” the “Government’s prosecution of the
case” or “cause the defendant undue burden.”
§§3730(c)(2)(C)–(D).

															Next, Paragraph 3 applies, as its first clause
states, “[i]f the Government elects not to proceed with the
action.” §3730(c)(3). In that event, the relator
“shall have the right to conduct the action.”
Ibid. But a caveat immediately follows. The Government, as
noted above, may “intervene at a later
date”—i.e., after the seal
period—“upon a showing of good cause.”
Ibid.; see supra, at 4. And last, there is a caveat
to that caveat: In granting a later intervention motion, the
“court [may not] limit[ ] the status and rights”
of the relator. §3730(c)(3).

															Finally, Paragraph 4 applies, as its first
clause states, “[w]hether or not the Government proceeds with
the action.” §3730(c)(4). That provision enables the
Government to obtain a stay of the relator’s discovery if it
would interfere with the Government’s investigation or
prosecution of a related legal matter.

															And so to recap, focusing on the matter we
suggested you attend to. See supra, at 4. Paragraph 1
applies “[i]f the Government proceeds with the action.”
Paragraph 3 applies “[i]f the Government elects not to
proceed with the action.” Paragraph 4 applies
“[w]hether or not the Government proceeds with the
action.” And Paragraph 2? It is not like the others. Though
granting the Government important rights—including the right
to dismissal over the relator’s objection—Paragraph 2
does not specify when it applies. And that is the mystery at this
case’s heart.

															B

															With the game thus afoot, we turn to the
facts—though there are only a few you need to know.
Petitioner Jesse Polansky is a doctor who worked for respondent
Executive Health Resources (EHR), a company that helped hospitals
bill the United States for Medicare-covered services. In 2012,
Polansky filed (under seal, as required) a qui tam
action against EHR. The complaint alleged that EHR was enabling its
clients to cheat the Government—essentially, by charging
inpatient rates for what should have been outpatient services.
After reviewing Polansky’s evidence, the Government declined
to intervene during the seal period. The case then spent years in
discovery, with EHR demanding both documents and deposition
testimony from the Government. As its discovery obligations mounted
and weighty privilege issues emerged, the Government assessed and
reassessed whether the suit should go forward. By 2019, it had
decided that the varied burdens of the suit outweighed its
potential value. The Government therefore filed a motion under
Subparagraph (2)(A) to dismiss the action over Polansky’s
objection. The District Court granted the request, finding that the
Government had “thoroughly investigated the costs and
benefits of allowing [Polansky’s] case to proceed and ha[d]
come to a valid conclusion based on the results of its
investigation.” 422 F. Supp. 3d 916, 927 (ED Pa.
2019).

															The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
affirmed after considering two legal questions. First, does the
Government have authority to dismiss an action under Subparagraph
(2)(A) if it declined to intervene during the seal period? The
Court of Appeals held that the Government has that power so long as
it intervened sometime later. See 17 F. 4th 376, 383–388
(2021). And here, the Third Circuit found, the Government had
satisfied that condition because its motion to dismiss was
reasonably construed to include a motion to intervene, which the
District Court had implicitly granted. See id., at
392–393.[2] Second, what
standard should a district court use in ruling on a Subparagraph
(2)(A) motion to dismiss? The Court of Appeals held that the proper
standard comes from Federal Rule 41(a)—the rule governing
voluntary dismissals in ordinary civil litigation. See id.,
at 389–391. And here, the Third Circuit ruled, the District
Court’s decision, which was based on a “thorough
examination” of the interests that Rule 41 makes relevant,
was not an abuse of discretion. Id., at 393.

															Because both those questions have occasioned
circuit splits, we granted certiorari. 596 U. S. ___ (2022);
see 17 F. 4th, at 384, n. 8, 388 (outlining the splits). We
now affirm the Third Circuit across the board.

															II

															To show why the Third Circuit is right on the
first question presented—about when the Government can make
what we’ll call a (2)(A) motion—we proceed in two
stages, corresponding to two sets of arguments. None of the parties
here agrees with the Third Circuit. On the one side, the Government
and EHR contend that a (2)(A) motion is always permissible, even if
the Government has never intervened. Their argument is mainly one
from silence: Because Paragraph 2 does not explicitly say when it
applies—e.g., when the Government “proceeds with
the action” or when it “elects not to”—the
provision must apply all the time. §§3730(c)(1), (3). On
the other side, Polansky (joined by the dissent) contends that the
Government can make a (2)(A) motion only if it has intervened
during the seal period. Polansky understands the dismissal power to
arise only when the Government assumes primary responsibility for
the action. And he does not think that occurs—rather, he
thinks the relator remains in control—if the Government
intervenes later on. To work our way through this thicket, we
address first the Government’s (and EHR’s) theory, then
Polansky’s (and the dissent’s). We come out the other
end in the same place as the Third Circuit: Paragraph 2 (like
Paragraph 1) applies only if the Government has intervened, but the
timing of the intervention makes no difference. So the Government
can file a (2)(A) motion to dismiss whenever (whether during the
seal period or later) it has intervened.

															A

															Even taken alone, Paragraph 2 refutes the idea
that it applies regardless of intervention. When the Government has
chosen not to intervene in a qui tam suit, it is (by
definition) not a party. See Eisenstein, 556 U. S., at
933. And non-parties typically cannot do much of anything in a
lawsuit. To be sure, a qui tam action is an unusual
creature. Even as a non-party, the Government retains an interest
in the suit, and possesses specified rights. See, e.g.,
§3730(c)(4) (the right to get a stay of some discovery);
§3730(d)(2) (the right to share in the recovery). But
Paragraph 2, unlike other FCA provisions, does not say that it
applies when the Government is a non-party. See supra, at
4–6. So the Government can prevail on its argument only by
implication. And the implication does not fit. The
paragraph’s first two provisions (Subparagraphs (2)(A) and
(2)(B)) grant the Government uncommon, even extraordinary, power:
to dismiss and settle an action over the objection of the person
who brought it. That sort of authority would be odd to house in an
entity that is taking no part in—indeed, has continually
declined to join—a case. And still more conclusive, the
paragraph’s next two provisions presuppose that the
Government has in fact intervened. Subparagraph (2)(C) enables the
court to restrict the relator’s role when needed to prevent
interference with—wait for it—the
“Government’s prosecution of the case.” And
subparagraph (2)(D) allows the court to restrict the
relator’s participation if the defendant would otherwise
suffer an “undue burden.” The premise is again that the
Government has joined the case—else a court would be limiting
the role of the defendant’s sole adversary.

															Zoom out to the rest of §3730(c), and the
Government’s “intervention is irrelevant” view
looks even weaker. Above Paragraph 2 is (you guessed it) Paragraph
1, which begins and ends in telling ways. Recall that Paragraph 1
starts by announcing that it applies only “[i]f the
Government proceeds with the action”—something that
(everyone agrees) cannot happen unless the Government intervenes.
See supra, at 4. In that event, the paragraph says, the
Government assumes “primary responsibility” for the
suit. But still, the paragraph concludes, the relator may continue
as a party, “subject to the limitations set forth in
paragraph (2).” That last “subject to” phrase
links Paragraph 2 to Paragraph 1. It says that when the Paragraph 1
situation obtains, the relator’s continuing role will be
limited in the ways set out in Paragraph 2. And once again, the
Paragraph 1 situation obtains only when the Government has
intervened. So that is also when Paragraph 2’s provisions
(including the one about dismissal) kick in. In other words, the
express intervention prerequisite of Paragraph 1 carries forward
into Paragraph 2 through the “subject to” clause
connecting the two. Only when Paragraphs 3 and 4 are reached does
the necessity of intervention drop away. Recall that they apply,
respectively, when “the Government elects not to
proceed” and “[w]hether or not the Government
proceeds.” See supra, at 5. By contrast, Paragraph 2
is explicitly hooked to Paragraph 1, which applies only when
“the Government proceeds.”

															And just to pile on a bit, the
Government’s alternative construction would create surplusage
twice over. Consider first the “[w]hether or not”
introductory clause of Paragraph 4, noted just above. On the
Government’s view, that clause has no function: A provision
lacking it would likewise apply “whether or not” the
Government chose to intervene. The Government essentially concedes
the point, urging only that Paragraph 4’s preface is
“the sort of redundancy that is common in statutory
drafting.” Brief for United States 25 (internal quotation
marks omitted). Similarly for the “subject to . . .
paragraph (2)” proviso in Paragraph 1. On the
Government’s view, Congress need not have included that
language, because every qui tam action (not just those
described in Paragraph 1) is “subject to” Paragraph
2’s limits. Again, the Government’s only response is
that “Congress sometimes includes language that could be
viewed as ‘redundant.’ ” Id., at 22.
Yes, sometimes. But on top of everything else, the
Government’s double violation of the interpretive principle
that “every clause and word of a statute” should have
meaning, Montclair v. Ramsdell, 107 U.S.
147, 152 (1883), dooms the view that Paragraph 2 applies even
when the Government has not intervened. The paragraph does not then
apply—which means that the Government cannot then file a
(2)(A) motion to dismiss.

															B

															At the same time, a straightforward reading of
the FCA refutes Polansky’s (and the dissent’s)
position—that Paragraph 2 (and also Paragraph 1) applies only
when the Government’s intervention occurs during the seal
period. Recall the way the statute works: The Government can
intervene at that early time—but so too it can
“intervene at a later date upon a showing of good
cause.” §3730(c)(3); see supra, at 5. The
consequence of a successful motion to intervene, in the FCA context
as in any other, is to turn the movant into a party. See
Eisenstein, 556 U. S., at 933–934. And once the
Government becomes a party, it (alongside the relator) does what
parties do: It “proceeds with the action.” That quoted
phrase, you’ll recall, is the trigger for Paragraph 1: When
the Government “proceeds with the action,” it assumes
“primary responsibility” for the case’s
“prosecuti[on].” And as shown above, whenever that is
true, Paragraph 2 kicks in too. See supra, at 8–10. So
the right to dismiss under Subparagraph (2)(A) attends a later
intervention, just as it does an earlier one. Either way, the
Government becomes a party, proceeding with the action; so either
way, it acquires the right to dismiss.[3]

															Polansky’s contrary argument (echoed in
the dissent) mainly relies on the clause in Paragraph 3 telling the
court that it may not “limit[ ] the status and
rights” of the relator when it approves a post-seal-period
intervention motion. See Brief for Polansky 23; post, at
4–5. That clause, he says, prevents the court from giving the
Government “primary responsibility” over the suit,
including the power to dismiss. But on that reading, the Paragraph
3 clause would effectively negate Paragraphs 1 and 2. The Paragraph
3 clause would prevent the Government, even though now
“proceed[ing]” with the case, from acquiring the
control that Paragraphs 1 and 2 afford in that circumstance.
Polansky’s construction would thus put the statute “at
war with itself.” United States v. American Tobacco
Co., 221 U.S.
106, 180 (1911). The statute would direct one result (the
Government assuming the primary role upon intervening) while
telling the court not to allow that state of affairs. The better
reading makes the instruction to the court congruent with the
background operation of the statute. The clause tells the court not
to impose additional, extra-statutory limits on the relator when
granting the Government’s post-seal-period motion to
intervene. See United States ex rel. CIMZNHCA, LLC v.
UCB, Inc., 970 F.3d 835, 854 (CA7 2020) (explaining that the
Paragraph 3 clause “instructs the district court not to limit
the relator’s ‘status and rights’ as they are
defined by” Paragraphs 1 and 2). In that way, Paragraph 3
ensures that the Government will get no special benefit from the
court’s involvement in a later intervention: The parties will
occupy the same positions as they would have if the Government had
intervened in the seal period.

															That seal-agnostic view of intervention’s
effects also fits the FCA’s Government-centered purposes. In
Polansky’s proposed world, the Government has primary control
of the action if it intervenes in the seal period, but the relator
has primary control if the intervention occurs later on. See Brief
for Polansky 17. But in both cases, the Government’s interest
in the suit is the same—and is the predominant one. That
interest is typically to redress injuries against the Government,
through a suit “brought in [the Government’s]
name.” §3730(b)(1). Or else, as here, that interest is
to obtain dismissal of the suit because it will likely cost the
Government more than it is worth. Either way, that interest does
not diminish in importance because the Government waited to
intervene. Congress decided not to make seal-period intervention an
on-off switch. It knew that circumstances could change and new
information come to light. So Congress enabled the Government, in
the protection of its own interests, to reassess
qui tam actions and change its mind. See S. Rep.
No. 99–345, p. 26 (1986) (explaining that the Government
should have a continuing chance to intervene because “new
evidence” might cause it to “reevaluate its initial
assessment”). When it does so, nothing about the
statute’s objectives suggests that the Government should have
to take a back seat to its co-party relator. The suit remains, as
it was in the seal period, one to vindicate the Government’s
interests.

															III

															We thus arrive at this case’s second
question: When the Government, having properly intervened, seeks to
dismiss an FCA action over a relator’s objection, what
standard should a district court use to assess the motion? The
Third Circuit held that the appropriate standard derives from
Federal Rule 41(a), which governs voluntary dismissals in ordinary
civil litigation. See 17 F. 4th, at 389–391. Under that Rule,
the standard varies with the case’s procedural posture. If
the defendant has not yet served an answer or summary-judgment
motion, the plaintiff need only file a notice of dismissal. But
once that threshold has been crossed—as in this
case—dismissal requires a “court order, on terms that
the court considers proper.” Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 41(a)(2).
Again, both the Government and Polansky object from different
directions. The Government thinks it has essentially unfettered
discretion to dismiss; Polansky proposes a complicated form of
arbitrary-and-capricious review, with a burden-shifting component.
But again, the Third Circuit’s Goldilocks position is the
legally right one. A district court should assess a (2)(A) motion
to dismiss using Rule 41’s standards. And in most FCA cases,
as the Court of Appeals suggested, those standards will be readily
satisfied. See 17 F. 4th, at 390–391, and n. 18.

															The reason for alighting on Rule 41 is not
complicated: The Federal Rules are the default rules in civil
litigation, and nothing warrants a departure from them here. As
Rule 1 states: “These rules govern the procedure in all civil
actions and proceedings in the United States district courts”
(with specified exceptions not relevant here). Of course, Congress
may override that command when it wishes. But we do not lightly
infer that Congress has done so; and silence on the subject is
seldom enough. See Jones v. Bock, 549 U.S.
199, 212 (2007); Marek v. Chesny, 473 U.S.
1, 11–12 (1985). Here, nothing in the FCA suggests that
Congress meant to except qui tam actions from the usual
voluntary dismissal rule. To the contrary, the FCA’s many
cross-references to the Rules suggest that their application is the
norm. See, e.g., §3732(a) (requiring that a summons in
an FCA action comply with the Rules);
§§3730(b)(2)–(3) (requiring service to the
Government and defendant “pursuant to Rule 4”). And
this Court has made clear that various Rules not specifically
mentioned—in particular, those dealing with
discovery—also apply. See Eisenstein, 556 U. S.,
at 933–934. As a practical matter, the Federal Rules apply in
FCA litigation in courts across the country every day. There is no
reason to make an exception for the one about voluntary
dismissals.

															The application of Rule 41 in the FCA context
will differ in two ways from the norm. The first pertains to
procedure. The FCA requires notice and an opportunity for a hearing
before a Subparagraph (2)(A) dismissal can take place. So the
district court must use that procedural framework to apply Rule
41’s standards.[4] The
second pertains to the set of interests the court should consider
in ruling on a post-answer motion. In non-FCA cases, Rule
41(a)(2)’s “proper terms” analysis focuses on the
defendant’s interests: The court mainly addresses whether
that party’s “commitment of time and money”
militates against dismissal. Cooter & Gell v.
Hartmarx Corp., 496 U.S.
384, 397 (1990). But in the FCA context, the “proper
terms” assessment is more likely to involve the relator. For
all relators faced with a (2)(A) motion want their actions to go
forward, and many have by then committed substantial resources.
Part of the district court’s task is to consider their
interests. Cf. 9 C. Wright & A. Miller, Federal Practice and
Procedure §2364, p. 554 (4th ed. 2022) (explaining that a
court, in applying Rule 41, “should endeavor to ensure that
substantial justice is accorded to all parties”).

															The Third Circuit, though, was right to note
that (2)(A) motions will satisfy Rule 41 in all but the most
exceptional cases. See 17 F. 4th, at 390–391, and n. 18.
This Court has never set out a grand theory of what that Rule
requires, and we will not do so here. The inquiry is necessarily
“contextual.” 9 Wright & Miller §2364, at 599.
And in this context, the Government’s views are entitled to
substantial deference. A qui tam suit, as we have
explained, is on behalf of and in the name of the Government. The
suit alleges injury to the Government alone. And the Government,
once it has intervened, assumes primary responsibility for the
action. Given all that, a district court should think several times
over before denying a motion to dismiss. If the Government offers a
reasonable argument for why the burdens of continued litigation
outweigh its benefits, the court should grant the motion. And that
is so even if the relator presents a credible assessment to the
contrary.

															In light of those principles, this case is not a
close call. A district court’s Rule 41 order is generally
reviewable under an abuse-of-discretion standard, and the Third
Circuit properly applied that standard here. But in the interest of
providing guidance, it might be useful for us to put that standard
of review to the side, and simply to say that the District Court
got this one right. The Government, in moving to dismiss,
enumerated the significant costs of future discovery in the suit,
including the possible disclosure of privileged documents. At the
same time, the Government explained in detail why it had come to
believe that the suit had little chance of success on the merits.
Polansky vigorously disputed the latter point, claiming that the
Government was “leaving billions of dollars of potential
recovery on the table.” 17 F. 4th, at 393 (emphasis deleted).
But that competing assessment, the District Court thought, could
not outweigh the Government’s reasonable view of the
suit’s costs and benefits. We agree. The Government gave good
grounds for thinking that this suit would not do what all
qui tam actions are supposed to do: vindicate the
Government’s interests. Absent some extraordinary
circumstance, that sort of showing is all that is needed for the
Government to prevail on a (2)(A) motion to dismiss.

															IV

															The Government may move to dismiss an FCA
action under Subparagraph (2)(A) whenever it has
intervened—whether during the seal period or later on. The
applicable standards for deciding such a motion are those set out
in Federal Rule 41. Under that Rule, the Government was entitled to
dismiss this qui tam action. We therefore affirm in all
respects the judgment below.

															It is so ordered.

															

															APPENDIX

															

															3730. Civil actions for false claims

															

															(a) Responsibilities of the Attorney
General.—The Attorney General diligently shall investigate a
violation under section 3729. If the Attorney General finds that a
person has violated or is violating section 3729, the Attorney
General may bring a civil action under this section against the
person.

															(b) Actions by Private Persons.—(1) A
person may bring a civil action for a violation of section 3729 for
the person and for the United States Government. The action shall
be brought in the name of the Government. The action may be
dismissed only if the court and the Attorney General give written
consent to the dismissal and their reasons for consenting.

															(2) A copy of the complaint and written
disclosure of substantially all material evidence and information
the person possesses shall be served on the Government pursuant to
Rule 4(d)(4) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. The complaint
shall be filed in camera, shall remain under seal for at least 60
days, and shall not be served on the defendant until the court so
orders. The Government may elect to intervene and proceed with the
action within 60 days after it receives both the complaint and the
material evidence and information.

															(3) The Government may, for good cause shown,
move the court for extensions of the time during which the
complaint remains under seal under paragraph (2). Any such motions
may be supported by affidavits or other submissions in camera. The
defendant shall not be required to respond to any complaint filed
under this section until 20 days after the complaint is unsealed
and served upon the defendant pursuant to Rule 4 of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure.

															(4) Before the expiration of the 60-day period
or any extensions obtained under paragraph (3), the Government
shall–

															(A) proceed with the action, in which case the
action shall be conducted by the Government; or

															(B) notify the court that it declines to take
over the action, in which case the person bringing the action shall
have the right to conduct the action.

															(5) When a person brings an action under this
subsection, no person other than the Government may intervene or
bring a related action based on the facts underlying the pending
action.

															(c) Rights of the Parties to Qui Tam
Actions.—(1) If the Government proceeds with the action, it
shall have the primary responsibility for prosecuting the action,
and shall not be bound by an act of the person bringing the action.
Such person shall have the right to continue as a party to the
action, subject to the limitations set forth in paragraph (2).

															(2)(A) The Government may dismiss the action
notwithstanding the objections of the person initiating the action
if the person has been notified by the Government of the filing of
the motion and the court has provided the person with an
opportunity for a hearing on the motion.

															(B) The Government may settle the action with
the defendant notwithstanding the objections of the person
initiating the action if the court determines, after a hearing,
that the proposed settlement is fair, adequate, and reasonable
under all the circumstances. Upon a showing of good cause, such
hearing may be held in camera.

															(C) Upon a showing by the Government that
unrestricted participation during the course of the litigation by
the person initiating the action would interfere with or unduly
delay the Government’s prosecution of the case, or would be
repetitious, irrelevant, or for purposes of harassment, the court
may, in its discretion, impose limitations on the person’s
participation, such as—

															(i) limiting the number of witnesses the
person may call;

															(ii) limiting the length of the testimony of
such witnesses;

															(iii) limiting the person’s
cross-examination of witnesses; or

															(iv) otherwise limiting the participation by
the person in the litigation.

															(D) Upon a showing by the defendant that
unrestricted participation during the course of the litigation by
the person initiating the action would be for purposes of
harassment or would cause the defendant undue burden or unnecessary
expense, the court may limit the participation by the person in the
litigation.

															(3) If the Government elects not to proceed
with the action, the person who initiated the action shall have the
right to conduct the action. If the Government so requests, it
shall be served with copies of all pleadings filed in the action
and shall be supplied with copies of all deposition transcripts (at
the Government’s expense). When a person proceeds with the
action, the court, without limiting the status and rights of the
person initiating the action, may nevertheless permit the
Government to intervene at a later date upon a showing of good
cause.

															(4) Whether or not the Government proceeds
with the action, upon a showing by the Government that certain
actions of discovery by the person initiating the action would
interfere with the Government’s investigation or prosecution
of a criminal or civil matter arising out of the same facts, the
court may stay such discovery for a period of not more than 60
days. Such a showing shall be conducted in camera. The court may
extend the 60-day period upon a further showing in camera that the
Government has pursued the criminal or civil investigation or
proceedings with reasonable diligence and any proposed discovery in
the civil action will interfere with the ongoing criminal or civil
investigation or proceedings.

															(5) Notwithstanding subsection (b), the
Government may elect to pursue its claim through any alternate
remedy available to the Government, including any administrative
proceeding to determine a civil money penalty. If any such
alternate remedy is pursued in another proceeding, the person
initiating the action shall have the same rights in such proceeding
as such person would have had if the action had continued under
this section. Any finding of fact or conclusion of law made in such
other proceeding that has become final shall be conclusive on all
parties to an action under this section. For purposes of the
preceding sentence, a finding or conclusion is final if it has been
finally determined on appeal to the appropriate court of the United
States, if all time for filing such an appeal with respect to the
finding or conclusion has expired, or if the finding or conclusion
is not subject to judicial review.

Notes
1
 That is why the caption
in this and other qui tam suits designates the
plaintiff as “United States ex rel. [the private
party’s name].” Ex rel. is short for the
Latin term “ex relatione,” which means “by
or on the relation of.” Black’s Law Dictionary 727
(11th ed. 2019). So here, the caption refers to the United States,
by (or in relation to allegations brought by) Jesse Polansky, whom
you will meet in a little while.
2
 As noted above, post-seal
intervention requires a showing of good cause. See supra, at
5. Here, the Third Circuit explained that “showing
‘good cause’ is neither a burdensome nor unfamiliar
obligation,” but instead “a uniquely flexible and
capacious concept, meaning simply a legally sufficient
reason.” 17 F. 4th, at 387 (internal quotation marks
omitted). And applying that standard, the Third Circuit found that
the Government’s request to dismiss the suit—based on
its weighing of discovery burdens against likelihood of
success—itself established good cause to intervene. See
id., at 392–393. Polansky does not challenge that
conclusion.
3
 Polansky (joined by the
dissent) briefly tries to subvert the above reading at the first
step, by arguing that when the Government intervenes after the seal
period, it somehow does not “proceed with the
action”—and so neither Paragraph 1 nor Paragraph 2
kicks in. Brief for Polansky 23 (arguing that Paragraph 3 enables
the Government only to “intervene,” and not also to
“proceed with the action”); see post, at 4
(same). But the phrase “proceed with the action” has no
special statutory meaning and is no arcane term of art. It is just
the consequence of anyone—the Government or the
relator—becoming a party. See Webster’s Third New
International Dictionary 1807 (1986) (defining
“proceed” as “carry on a legal action”).
Regardless whether intervention is pre-seal or post-seal, the
Government at that moment becomes a party; and when the Government
becomes a party, it (necessarily) “proceeds with the
action.”
4
 The Court of Appeals
briefly addressed the purpose of a hearing when dismissal is sought
before an answer is filed. See 17 F. 4th 376, 390, n. 16 (CA3
2021). In that context, Rule 41 entitles the movant to a dismissal;
the district court has no adjudicatory role. So what is the court
supposed to do at the hearing the FCA requires? The Third Circuit
suggested that Rule 41’s standards “rest atop the
foundation of bedrock constitutional constraints on Government
action.” Id., at 390, n. 16. So a hearing,
whether pre- or post-answer, might inquire into allegations that a
dismissal “violate[s] the relator’s rights to due
process or equal protection.” Ibid. But because
Polansky has not raised a claim of that sort, we do not consider
the circumstances in which, or procedures by which, a court should
find the Constitution to prevent the Government from dismissing a
qui tam action.


