::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1454
::decision_name::  Ohio Adjutant General's Department v. Federal Labor Relations Authority
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1454

															_________________

															THE OHIO ADJUTANT GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT,
et al., PETITIONERS v. FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS
AUTHORITY, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[May 18, 2023]

															

															Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															This case requires us to determine whether the
Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) properly exercised
jurisdiction over an unfair labor practices dispute. On one side
were the Ohio National Guard, the Ohio Adjutant General, and the
Ohio Adjutant General’s Department (collectively petitioners
or the Guard). On the other was the American Federation of
Government Employees, Local 3970, AFL–CIO (Union), which
represents federal employees known as dual-status technicians who
work in both civilian and military roles for the Guard.

															The Union petitioned the FLRA to resolve the
dispute. But, under the Federal Service Labor-Management Relations
Statute (FSLMRS or Statute), the FLRA only has jurisdiction over
labor organizations and federal “agencies”—and
petitioners insist that they are neither. 5 U. S. C.
§7101 et seq. We hold, however, that petitioners
act as a federal “agency” when they hire and supervise
dual-status technicians serving in their civilian role.

															I

															A

															Enacted in 1978, the FSLMRS establishes a
comprehensive framework governing labor-management relations in
federal agencies. It secures the right of “[e]ach
employee” “to form, join, or assist any labor
organization, or to refrain from any such activity, freely and
without fear of penalty or reprisal.” §7102. And, it
further guarantees that “each employee shall be protected in
the exercise of such right.” Ibid. To that end, the
FSLMRS provides for collective bargaining between federal agencies
and their employees’ unions, and it bars each from committing
unfair labor practices. See §§7102(2) and
7116(a)–(b). For example, an agency may not “interfere
with, restrain, or coerce any employee in the exercise by the
employee of any right under” the Statute; “refuse to
consult or negotiate in good faith with a labor organization as
required by” the Statute; or “otherwise fail or refuse
to comply with any provision of ” the Statute.
§§7116(a)(1), (5), (8).

															The Statute creates the FLRA and tasks it with
administering this framework, including by investigating and
adjudicating labor disputes. §7105(a)(2)(G); see also
§§7104 and 7118(a)(1). It provides that the FLRA’s
general counsel “shall investigate” a charge against
“any agency or labor organization” and, if warranted,
may issue a complaint calling for a hearing before the FLRA.
§§7118(a)(1)–(2). The FLRA is then responsible for
“conduct[ing] hearings and resolv[ing such]
complaints.” §7105(a)(2)(G). If the FLRA determines that
an agency or a union has engaged in an unfair labor practice, it
“may require” the entity “to cease and desist
from violations of [the Statute] and require it to take any
remedial action it considers appropriate.”
§7105(g)(3).

															This case concerns the Statute’s
application to a unique category of federal civil-service
employees: dual-status technicians working for the State National
Guards. These “rare bird[s]” occupy both civilian and
military roles. Babcock v. Kijakazi, 595 U. S.
___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 2). They serve as “civilian
employee[s]” engaged in “organizing, administering,
instructing,” “training,” or “maintenance
and repair of supplies” to assist the National Guard. 10
U. S. C. §10216(a)(1)(C); see 32 U. S. C.
§§709(a)(1)–(2); Babcock, 595 U. S., at
___ (slip op., at 2). Yet, they must “as a condition of that
employment . . . maintain membership in the [National
Guard]” and wear a uniform while working. 10
U. S. C. §10216(a)(1)(B); see 32 U. S. C.
§§709(b)(2)–(4). Except when participating as
National Guard members in part-time drills, training, or
active-duty deployment, see 32 U. S. C.
§§502(a) and 709(g)(2), dual-status technicians work full
time in a civilian capacity and receive federal civil-service pay.
See Babcock, 595 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at
2–3); see also 5 U. S. C. §2101(a).

															Importantly, under the Technicians Act of 1968,
each dual-status technician is considered “an employee of the
Department of the Army or the Department of the Air Force, as the
case may be, and an employee of the United States.” 32
U. S. C. §709(e). While it is state adjutants
general who “employ and administer” dual-status
technicians working for their respective State National Guard
units, they can only do so pursuant to an express
“designat[ion]” of authority by the Secretary of the
Army or the Secretary of the Air Force. §709(d); see also
Dept. of the Army, S. Resor, Delegation of Authority Under the
National Guard Technicians Act of 1968 (General Order 85, Dec. 31,
1968) (General Order 85) (current order designating the relevant
authority).

															B

															The parties’ collective-bargaining
relationship dates back to 1971, when the Guard recognized the
Union as the exclusive representative of its dual-status
technicians. They have since negotiated a number of
collective-bargaining agreements (CBAs), the most recent of which
was signed in 2011 and expired in 2014. As the expiration date
neared, the Guard and the Union entered into negotiations for a new
agreement. During this process, in March 2016, they adopted a
memorandum of understanding whereby the Ohio Adjutant General
promised to abide by certain practices contained in the expired
agreement. But, later that year, the Ohio Adjutant General’s
Department reversed course. It asserted that it was not bound by
the expired CBA and did not consider itself bound by the FSLMRS
when interacting with dual-status technicians. The Guard also sent
letters to dual-status technician Union members, asking them to
submit the requisite forms to permit the deduction of Union dues
from their pay. The letters advised that, if the technicians did
not promptly submit the forms, the Guard would cancel dues
deductions on their behalf. The Guard ultimately terminated dues
withholding for 89 technicians.

															The Union subsequently filed unfair labor
practice charges with the FLRA. After investigating, the FLRA
general counsel issued consolidated complaints against the
“U. S. Department of Defense, Ohio National
Guard,” alleging that the Guard had refused to negotiate in
good faith and interfered with the exercise of employee rights
under the Statute through its treatment of technicians’ dues
deductions. App. 16. The Ohio Adjutant General and the Ohio
Adjutant General’s Department intervened on the side of the
Ohio National Guard.

															Petitioners argued before the Administrative Law
Judge that the Guard was not an “agency” and that
dual-status technician bargaining-unit employees were not
“employees” for purposes of the Statute. The
Administrative Law Judge issued a recommended decision finding that
the FLRA had jurisdiction over the Guard, that the dual-status
technicians had collective-bargaining rights under the Statute, and
that the Guard’s actions in repudiating the CBA violated the
Statute. It thus ordered petitioners to follow the mandatory terms
of the 2011 CBA, bargain in good faith going forward, and reinstate
Union dues withholding. A divided panel of the FLRA adopted the
Administrative Law Judge’s findings, conclusions, and
remedial order.

															The Guard petitioned for review in the
U. S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which denied the
petition. 21 F. 4th 401 (2021). The Sixth Circuit held that
the Guard is an agency subject to the Statute when it operates in
its capacity as employer of dual-status technicians. The court
further found that dual-status technicians are federal civilian
employees with collective-bargaining rights under the Statute.
Thus, because the FLRA has authority to enforce those
collective-bargaining rights, the court concluded that this dispute
fell within its jurisdiction.

															We granted certiorari to consider whether the
FLRA had jurisdiction over this labor dispute under the Statute.
598 U. S. ___ (2022).[1]

															II

															Under the FSLMRS, it is “an unfair labor
practice for an agency” “to interfere with, restrain,
or coerce any employee in the exercise by the employee of any right
under” the Statute. 5 U. S. C. §7116(a)(1).
The FLRA’s jurisdiction over this unfair labor practices
dispute thus turns on whether petitioners are an
“agency” for purposes of the Statute when they act in
their capacities as supervisors of dual-status technicians, a
question bounded by a series of defined terms. The Statute defines
an “agency” as “an Executive agency,” with
exceptions not relevant here. §7103(a)(3). Then, the term
“ ‘Executive agency,’ ” as used
in Title 5, “means an Executive department, a Government
corporation, and an independent establishment.” §105.
And each of those terms is separately defined: an “Executive
departmen[t]” means each of 15 Cabinet-level Departments,
including “[t]he Department of Defense,” §101; a
“ ‘Government corporation’ means a
corporation owned or controlled by the Government of the United
States,” §103; and an “ ‘independent
establishment’ means” “an establishment in the
executive branch,” with exceptions not relevant here,
“which is not an Executive department, military department,
Government corporation, or part thereof, or part of an independent
establishment,” §104(1). It is undisputed that the Guard
is neither a “Government corporation” nor an
“independent establishment,” leaving only
“Executive department” at issue.

															Petitioners work backwards through the links in
the statutory chain. They argue that they are not an Executive
department because they are not listed among the 15 Cabinet-level
Departments specified in §101. Thus, they claim, they are not
an “Executive agency” under §105 and, accordingly,
do not qualify as an “agency” under the Statute.
Respondents counter that the components, representatives, and
agents of an agency may be required to comply with the Statute. And
they emphasize that petitioners exercise federal authority in
employing dual-status technicians and must therefore comply with
applicable federal law. Respondents have the better of the
argument.

															A

															The Guard, when employing dual-status
technicians, functions as an agency covered by the Statute. The
Statute defines “ ‘agency’ ” to
include the Department of Defense, one of the enumerated executive
Departments in §101. §7103(a)(3); see §§101 and
105. And, each dual-status “technician . . . is an
employee of the Department of the Army or the Department of the Air
Force,” 32 U. S. C. §709(e); see also 10
U. S. C. §10216(a)(1)(A). Those Departments, in
turn, are components of the Department of Defense. 10
U. S. C. §§111(b)(6) and (8). And, components
of covered agencies plainly fall within the Statute’s reach.
5 U. S. C. §§7103(a)(12) (contemplating
collective bargaining between “the representative of an
agency” and “the exclusive representative of employees
in an appropriate unit in the agency”) and 7112(a)
(contemplating the establishment of “appropriate”
bargaining units “on an agency, plant, installation,
functional, or other basis”). Accordingly, when petitioners
employ and supervise dual-status technicians, they—like
components of an agency—exercise the authority of the
Department of Defense, a covered agency.

															The statutory authority permitting the Adjutant
General to employ dual-status technicians reinforces this point.
Adjutants general appoint dual-status technicians as civilian
employees in the federal civil service. See 5 U. S. C.
§2105(a)(1)(F) (providing that the term
“ ‘employee,’ ” for purposes of
Title 5, ordinarily includes “an individual . . .
appointed in the [federal] civil service by . . . an
adjutant general designated by the Secretary [of the Army or of the
Air Force] under section 709[(d)] of title 32”). And,
Congress has required the Secretaries of the Army and Air Force to
“designate” adjutants general “to employ and
administer” technicians. 32 U. S. C. §709(d).
That designation is the sole basis for petitioners’ authority
to employ technicians performing work in their federal civilian
roles, confirming that petitioners act on behalf of—and
exercise the authority of—a covered federal agency when they
supervise dual-status technicians.

															Here, for example, a 1968 order of the Secretary
of the Army “designate[s]” and “empower[s]”
each adjutant general “to employ and administer the Army
National Guard technicians authorized for his State . . .
as the case may be.” General Order 85, ¶3. Accordingly,
dual-status technicians are ultimately employees of the Secretaries
of the Army and the Air Force, and petitioners are the
Secretaries’ designees for purposes of dual-status technician
employment. Should a state adjutant general wish to employ federal
dual-status technicians, he must do so pursuant to delegated
federal authority and subject to federal civil-service
requirements. See 5 U. S. C. §2105(a)(1)(F). Indeed,
it would be passing strange if dual-status technicians, who qualify
as employees under the Statute, were supervised by an entity not
required to safeguard the rights guaranteed employees under the
Statute. §§7102 (providing that “each employee
shall be protected in the exercise of ” his right to join or
refrain from joining a labor association) and 7103(a)(2)(A)
(defining an “ ‘employee’ ” as
“an individual . . . employed in an agency”).
The case caption in this matter reflects the Guard’s federal
function with respect to hiring dual-status technicians; before the
FLRA, the case proceeded against the “U. S. Department
of Defense, Ohio National Guard,” with the Adjutant General
and the Adjutant General’s Department joining the suit later
as intervenors. App. 16.

															Petitioners contend that federalism concerns
require us to read the Statute to exempt them from the FLRA’s
jurisdiction. But, the FLRA enforces the rights and obligations of
federal civilian employees and their agency employers.
Because adjutants general act on behalf of an agency of the Federal
Government with respect to their supervision of civilian
technicians, their actions in that capacity do not implicate the
balance between federal and state powers. See 10 U. S. C.
§10216(a); 32 U. S. C. §709(e).

															B

															The evolution of federal agency-employee
relations law and the text of 5 U. S. C. §7135(b),
which functions as the Statute’s saving clause, lend further
support to the FLRA’s exercise of authority over the Guard.
Before the FSLMRS was adopted, “labor-management relations in
the federal sector were governed by a program established” by
a series of Executive Orders, “under which federal employees
had limited rights to engage in” collective bargaining.
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms v. FLRA,
464 U.S.
89, 91–92 (1983). The Statute’s immediate
predecessor, Executive Order No. 11491, established the precursor
to the current FLRA and listed prohibited unfair labor practices
for both federal agency management and unions. See Exec. Order No.
11491, 3 CFR 861 (1966–1970 Comp.). When Congress later
replaced that Executive Order with the FSLMRS, it explicitly
continued many aspects of the pre-FSLMRS regime: “Policies,
regulations, and procedures established under and decisions issued
under Executive Orde[r ] 11491 . . . shall remain in
full force and effect until revised or revoked by the President, or
unless superseded by specific provisions of [the Statute] or by
regulations or decisions issued pursuant to [the Statute].” 5
U. S. C. §7135(b). Thus, “decisions issued
under Executive Orde[r] 11491” supply critical guidance
regarding the FLRA’s jurisdiction today.

															One such decision is directly on point. In the
1971 case of Mississippi National Guard, 172d Military Airlift
Group (Thompson Field), Asst. Sec. Labor/Management Reports
(A/SLMR) No. 20 (Thompson Field), the Assistant Secretary of
Labor—exercising adjudicative authority under Executive Order
No. 11491 analogous to the modern FLRA’s—rejected
arguments virtually identical to those petitioners advance here.
See id., at 2 (describing the state guard’s argument
“that the provisions of Executive Order 11491 did not apply
. . . because the employees involved are under the
operational control of the Adjutant General of the State of
Mississippi, who is appointed and employed pursuant to State
law”). The Assistant Secretary reasoned “that National
Guard technicians [were] employees within the meaning
of ” the Executive Order and “employees of the
Federal government” under the Technicians Act. Id., at
6. The Assistant Secretary then concluded that the adjutant general
had “been designated as an agent of the Secretaries of the
Army and the Air Force” in employing and administering
dual-status technicians and that this agency relationship created
the obligation to comply with Executive Order No. 11491.
Id., at 7.

															The definitions of “employee” and
“agency” that Thompson Field examined under
Executive Order No. 11491 were materially identical to those that
Congress ultimately adopted in the FSLMRS. Compare 5
U. S. C. §§7103(a)(2)–(3) (defining
“ ‘employee’ ” as “an
individual . . . employed in an agency,” and
defining “ ‘agency’ ” as
“an Executive agency,” which §105 in turn defines
as an executive department, a Government corporation, and an
independent establishment) with Exec. Order No. 11491,
§§2(a)–(b) (defining
“ ‘[e]mployee’ ” primarily as
“an employee of an agency,” and defining
“ ‘[a]gency’ ” as “an
executive department, a Government corporation, and an independent
establishment”). We would, therefore, ordinarily presume that
the FSLMRS maintained the same coverage that existed under the
prior regime. See, e.g., George v. McDonough,
596 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 5); Taggart v.
Lorenzen, 587 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2019) (slip
op., at 5–6). We see nothing to weaken the force of that
presumption here. On the contrary, §7135(b) specifically
demonstrates Congress’ intent to leave the prior regime in
place except where it was specifically altered. And, because the
President has not revoked it and neither the FSLMRS nor associated
regulations have repudiated it, the decision in Thompson
Field “remain[s] in full force and effect.”
§7135(b).

															*  *  *

															We conclude that petitioners are subject to
the authority of the FLRA when acting in their capacities as
supervisors of dual-status technicians. Each dual-status technician
is an employee of the Department of the Army or the Department of
the Air Force; those Departments are, in turn, components of the
Department of Defense; and the Department of Defense is a covered
agency under the Statute. Further, a designation from the
Department of the Army is the sole basis for petitioners’
authority to employ dual-status technicians. Accordingly,
petitioners employ federal dual- status technicians pursuant to
delegated federal authority and subject to federal civil-service
requirements. The Statute also explicitly incorporates prior
practice, including the decision in Thompson Field, which
further reinforces our conclusion.

															The judgment of the Sixth Circuit is
affirmed.

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 We did not grant
certiorari to consider petitioners’ additional question
presented, which disputed the constitutionality of the FLRA’s
authority to regulate the labor practices of state militia members
who are not employed in the service of the United States.
Consequently, we address only the statutory question presented, and
our holding is limited to the unique class of federal employees
hired and supervised by state adjutants general.


