::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1271
::decision_name::  Moore v. Harper
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1271

															_________________

															TIMOTHY K. MOORE, in his official capacity as
SPEAKER OF THE NORTH CAROLINA HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
et al., PETITIONERS v. REBECCA HARPER, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
north carolina

															[June 27, 2023]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of
the Court.

															Several groups of plaintiffs challenged North
Carolina’s congressional districting map as an impermissible
partisan gerrymander. The plaintiffs brought claims under North
Carolina’s Constitution, which provides that “[a]ll
elections shall be free.” Art. I, §10. Relying on that
provision, as well as the State Constitution’s equal
protection, free speech, and free assembly clauses, the North
Carolina Supreme Court found in favor of the plaintiffs and struck
down the legislature’s map. The Court concluded that North
Carolina’s Legislature deliberately drew the State’s
congressional map to favor Republican candidates.

															In drawing the State’s congressional map,
North Carolina’s Legislature exercised authority under the
Elections Clause of the Federal Constitution, which expressly
requires “the Legislature” of each State to prescribe
“[t]he Times, Places and Manner of ” federal
elections. Art. I, §4, cl. 1. We decide today whether
that Clause vests state legislatures with authority to set rules
governing federal elections free from restrictions imposed under
state law.

															I

															The Elections Clause provides: “The
Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and
Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the
Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make
or alter such Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing
Senators.” Ibid. The Clause “imposes” on
state legislatures the “duty” to prescribe rules
governing federal elections. Arizona v. Inter Tribal
Council of Ariz., Inc., 570 U.S.
1, 8 (2013). It also guards “against the possibility that
a State would refuse to provide for the election of
representatives” by authorizing Congress to prescribe its own
rules. Ibid.

															A

															The 2020 decennial census showed that North
Carolina’s population had increased by nearly one million
people, entitling the State to an additional seat in its federal
congressional delegation. U. S. Census Bureau, 2020 Census
Apportionment Results (2021) (Table A). Following those results,
North Carolina’s General Assembly set out to redraw the
State’s congressional districts. North Carolina League of
Conservation Voters, Inc. v. Representative Destin Hall,
21 CVS 015426 etc. (Super. Ct. Wake Cty., N. C., Dec. 3,
2021), App. to Pet. for Cert. 260a–261a, rev’d and
remanded on other grounds, Harper v. Hall, 380
N. C. 317, 868 S.E.2d 499 (2022) (Harper I ). The
General Assembly also drafted new maps for the State’s
legislative districts, including the State House and the State
Senate. Id., at 328–329, 868 S. E. 2d, at 513. In
November 2021, the Assembly enacted three new maps, each passed
along party lines. Id., at 329, 868 S. E. 2d, at 513;
see N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §120–1 (2021) (State
Senate); §120–2 (State House); §163–201
(U. S. House of Representatives).

															Shortly after the new maps became law, several
groups of plaintiffs—including the North Carolina League of
Conservation Voters, Common Cause, and individual voters—sued
in state court. The plaintiffs asserted that each map constituted
an impermissible partisan gerrymander in violation of the North
Carolina Constitution. Harper I, 380 N. C., at
329–330, 868 S. E. 2d, at 513–514.[1] At trial before a three-judge panel of the
Wake County Superior Court, the plaintiffs presented expert
testimony and other evidence to support their claims that North
Carolina’s General Assembly drew state legislative and
federal congressional maps to favor Republican candidates.
Id., at 332, 868 S. E. 2d, at 515. The trial court
agreed, finding that the General Assembly’s 2021
congressional districting map was “a partisan outlier
intentionally and carefully designed to maximize Republican
advantage in North Carolina’s Con- gressional
delegation.” Id., at 345, 868 S. E. 2d, at 522
(internal quotation marks omitted). But the court denied relief,
reasoning that the partisan gerrymandering claims “amounted
to political questions that are nonjusticiable under the North
Carolina Constitution.” Id., at 348, 868 S. E.
2d, at 524.

															The North Carolina Supreme Court reversed,
holding that the legislative defendants violated state law
“beyond a reasonable doubt” by enacting maps that
constituted partisan gerrymanders. Id., at 353, 868
S. E. 2d, at 528. It also rejected the trial court’s
conclusion that partisan gerrymandering claims present a
nonjusticiable political question. Ibid. The Court
acknowledged our decision in Rucho v. Common Cause,
which held “that partisan gerrymandering claims present
political questions beyond the reach of the federal courts.”
588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 30); see Harper
I, 380 N. C., at 360–361, 868 S. E. 2d, at
532–533. But “simply because the Supreme Court has
concluded partisan gerrymandering claims are nonjusticiable in
federal courts,” the court explained, “it does not
follow that they are nonjusticiable in North Carolina
courts.” Id., at 361, 868 S. E. 2d, at 533. The
State Supreme Court also rejected the argument that the Elections
Clause in the Federal Constitution vests exclusive and independent
authority in state legislatures to draw congressional maps.
Id., at 390–391, 868 S. E. 2d, at
551–552.

															After holding that the 2021 districting maps
“substantially infringe upon plaintiffs’ fundamental
right to equal voting power,” the Court struck down the maps
and remanded the case to the trial “court to oversee the
redrawing of the maps by the General Assembly or, if necessary, by
the court.” Id., at 403, 868 S. E. 2d, at 559.
The Court entered judgment on February 15, 2022. Harper v.
Hall, No. 413PA21, App. to Pet. for Cert.
306–309. Two days later, the General Assembly adopted a
remedial congressional redistricting plan. See 2022 N. C.
Sess. Laws p. 3, §2. But the trial court rejected that plan
and adopted in its place interim maps developed by several Special
Masters for use in the 2022 North Carolina congressional elections.
North Carolina League of Conservation Voters, Inc. v.
Representative Destin Hall, 21 CVS 015426 etc. (Super. Ct.
Wake Cty., N. C., Feb. 23, 2022), App. to Pet. for Cert.
278a–279a, aff ’d in part, rev’d in part,
and remanded, Harper v. Hall, 383 N. C. 89, 881
S.E.2d 156 (2022) (Harper II ).

															On February 25, 2022, the legislative defendants
filed an emergency application in this Court, citing the Elections
Clause and requesting a stay of the North Carolina Supreme
Court’s decision. We declined to issue emergency relief but
later granted certiorari. 597 U. S. ___ (2022).

															B

															Following our grant of certiorari, the North
Carolina Supreme Court heard an appeal concerning the trial
court’s remedial order. In December 2022, the Court issued a
decision affirming in part, reversing in part, and remanding the
case. As relevant, it agreed with the trial court’s
determination that the General Assembly’s remedial
congressional plan “fell short” of the requirements set
forth in Harper I. Harper II, 383 N. C., at 125,
881 S. E. 2d, at 181.

															The legislative defendants sought rehearing,
requesting that the North Carolina Supreme Court
“withdraw” its remedial opinion in Harper II.
Pet. for Rehearing in Harper v. Hall,
No. 413PA21, p. 25 (Jan. 20, 2023) (Pet. for Rehearing).
They also asked the Court to “overrule” its decision in
Harper I, although they conceded that doing so would not
“negate the force of its order striking down the 2021
plans.” Pet. for Rehearing 24. The North Carolina Supreme
Court granted rehearing in Harper II, and we ordered the
parties to submit supplemental briefing concerning our jurisdiction
over this case in light of that decision.

															Following the parties’ submission of
supplemental briefs in this Court, the North Carolina Supreme Court
issued a decision granting the requests made by the legislative
defendants. The Court withdrew its opinion in Harper II,
concerning the remedial maps, and “overruled” its
decision in Harper I. See Harper v. Hall, ___
N. C. ___, 886 S.E.2d 393 (2023). Relying on our decision in
Rucho and on a renewed look at the constitutional provisions
at issue, the Court repudiated Harper I ’s
conclusion that partisan gerrymandering claims are justiciable
under the North Carolina Constitution. See ___ N. C., at ___,
886 S. E. 2d, at 431.

															The North Carolina Supreme Court dismissed the
plaintiffs’ claims with prejudice. Id., at ___, 886
S. E. 2d, at 401. But it did not reinstate the 2021
congressional plans that Harper I had struck down under the
North Carolina Constitution. ___ N. C., at ___, 886 S. E.
2d, at 446–448. Instead, the Court provided the General
Assembly with the “opportunity to enact a new set of
legislative and congressional redistricting plans, guided by
federal law, the objective constraints in Article II, Sections 3
and 5 [of the North Carolina Constitution], and this
opinion.” Id., at ___, 886 S. E. 2d, at 448. The
Court did not revisit Harper I ’s conclusion that
the Federal Elections Clause does not shield state legislatures
from review by state courts for compliance with state
constitutional provisions. ___ N. C., at ___, 886 S. E.
2d, at 422 (“The General Assembly exercises [redistricting]
authority subject to the express limitations in our constitution
and in federal law.”). We invited the parties to submit
additional supplemental briefs addressing the effect of the
Court’s decision on our jurisdiction.

															II

															Before turning to the merits, we must
“determine as a threshold matter that we have
jurisdiction.” Goodyear Atomic Corp. v. Miller,
486 U.S.
174, 178 (1988). The Constitution provides for our jurisdiction
over “Cases” and “Controversies.”
Art. III, §2. That constitutional requirement ensures
that the parties before us retain a “personal stake” in
the litigation. Baker v. Carr, 369 U.S.
186, 204 (1962). As “[a] corollary to this
case-or-controversy requirement,” there must exist a dispute
“at all stages of review, not merely at the time the
complaint is filed.” Genesis HealthCare Corp. v.
Symczyk, 569 U.S.
66, 71 (2013) (internal quotation marks omitted). Mootness
doctrine “addresses whether an intervening circumstance has
deprived the plaintiff of a personal stake in the outcome of the
lawsuit.” West Virginia v. EPA, 597 U. S.
___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 15) (alterations and internal
quotation marks omitted).

															The North Carolina Supreme Court’s
decision to withdraw Harper II and overrule Harper I
does not moot this case. The plaintiffs here sought to enjoin the
use of the 2021 plans enacted by the legislative defendants.
Harper I granted that relief, and in doing so rejected the
Elections Clause defense at issue before us. 380 N. C., at
403, 868 S. E. 2d, at 559. Prior to both the appeal and
rehearing proceedings in Harper II, the North Carolina
Supreme Court had already entered the judgment and issued the
mandate in Harper I. See App. to Pet. for Cert.
306–309. And the time during which the defendants could seek
rehearing as to that judgment had long since passed. See N. C.
Rule App. Proc. 31(a) (2023) (requiring that a rehearing
petition be brought within 15 days of the issuance of the mandate).
Recognizing this reality, the legislative defendants did not ask
the North Carolina Supreme Court to disturb the judgment in
Harper I as part of the rehearing proceedings. They instead
acknowledged that they would remain bound by Harper
I ’s decision enjoining the use of the 2021 plans.
See Pet. for Rehearing 24 (“[O]verruling Harper I will
not negate the force of its order striking down the 2021
plans.”).

															The North Carolina Supreme Court
“overruled” Harper I, thereby granting the
specific relief requested by the legislative defendants. As a
result, partisan gerrymandering claims are no longer justiciable
under the State’s Constitution. Harper, ___
N. C., at ___, 886 S. E. 2d, at 449. But although the
defendants may now draw new congressional maps, they agree that the
North Carolina Supreme Court overruled only the
“reasoning of Harper I ” and did not
“disturb . . . its judgment
nor . . . alter the presently operative
statutes of North Carolina.” Second Supp. Letter Brief for
Petitioners 3. In other words, although partisan gerrymandering
claims are no longer viable under the North Carolina Constitution,
the North Carolina Supreme Court has done nothing to alter the
effect of the judgment in Harper I enjoining the use of the
2021 maps. As a result, the legislative defendants’ path to
complete relief runs through this Court. Were we to reverse the
judgment in Harper I—a step not taken by the North
Carolina Supreme Court—the 2021 plans enacted by the
legislative defendants would again take effect. The parties
accordingly continue to have a “personal stake in the
ultimate disposition of the lawsuit.” Chafin v.
Chafin, 568 U.S.
165, 172 (2013) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															A North Carolina statute with specific
application to this proceeding confirms that the controversy before
us remains live. Under state law, if “the United States
Supreme Court . . . reverses” the
decision in Harper I, the 2021 maps will again become
“effective.” 2022 N. C. Sess. Laws p. 10, §2.
We have previously found such trigger provisions—in North
Carolina, no less—sufficient to avoid mootness under Article
III. See Hunt v. Cromartie, 526
U.S. 541, 546, n. 1 (1999) (“Because the
State’s 1998 law provides that the State will revert to the
1997 districting plan upon a favorable decision of this
Court . . . this case is not moot.”).

															We also have jurisdiction to review the judgment
in Harper I under 28 U. S. C. §1257(a). That
statute provides for this Court’s exercise of jurisdiction
over “[f]inal judgments or decrees rendered by the highest
court of a State in which a decision could be had.”
Ibid. We have, however, “recurringly encountered
situations in which the highest court of a State has finally
determined the federal issue present in a particular case, but in
which there are further proceedings in the lower state courts to
come.” Cox Broadcasting Corp. v. Cohn,
420 U.S.
469, 477 (1975).

															Cox Broadcasting delineated “at
least four categories of such cases in which the Court has treated
the decision on the federal issue as a final judgment for the
purposes of 28 U. S. C. §1257,” despite
“additional proceedings anticipated in the lower state
courts.” Ibid. As relevant, the second category
includes those “cases . . . in which the
federal issue, finally decided by the highest court in the State,
will survive and require decision regardless of the outcome of
future statecourt proceedings.” Id., at 480.

															Harper I fits within this second category
of cases described in Cox Broadcasting. By striking down the
2021 congressional plans enacted by the General Assembly, Harper
I “finally decided” the “federal issue”
whether the Elections Clause insulates state legislatures from
review by state courts for compliance with state law. See 380
N. C., at 390–391, 868 S. E. 2d, at 551–552.
That issue both has survived and requires decision because
subsequent proceedings have neither altered Harper
I ’s analysis of the federal issue nor negated the
effect of its judgment striking down the 2021 plans. In its
decision “overruling” Harper I, the North
Carolina Supreme Court in fact reaffirmed that it retains the
authority to review congressional districting plans for compliance
with state law. Harper, ___ N. C., at ___, 886
S. E. 2d, at 422.

															That the North Carolina Supreme Court overruled
Harper I does not affect the judgment in that case for
purposes of §1257(a). “[T]he res judicata consequences
of a final, unappealed judgment on the merits” are not
“altered by the fact that the judgment may have been wrong or
rested on a legal principle subsequently overruled in another
case.” Federated Department Stores, Inc. v.
Moitie, 452 U.S.
394, 398 (1981). The North Carolina Supreme Court has said much
the same. East Carolina Lumber Co. v. West, 247
N. C. 699, 701, 102 S. E. 2d, 248, 249 (1958) (“An
erroneous or irregular judgment binds the parties thereto until
corrected in a proper manner.”). That Court did not purport
to alter or amend in any way the judgment in Harper I. In
short, the record before us shows that Harper I
“finally decided” the Elections Clause issue, which has
survived subsequent proceedings in the North Carolina Supreme Court
such that it continues to “require decision” by this
Court. Cox Broadcasting, 420 U. S., at 480.

															Justice Thomas sees it differently. He correctly
observes that the North Carolina Supreme Court has now dismissed
the plaintiffs’ claims with prejudice. He posits, therefore,
that the legislative defendants “are not injured by the
judgment of Harper I.” Post, at 5 (dissenting
opinion). But the record before us belies that notion. Harper
I enjoined the use of the 2021 maps in subsequent elections in
North Carolina. Well after the time for seeking rehearing as to
that judgment passed, the legislative defendants instead sought
rehearing with respect to Harper II, a distinct decision
concerning remedies. The defendants steadfastly maintained in
rehearing proceedings before the North Carolina Supreme Court that
“overruling Harper I [would] not negate the force of
its order striking down the 2021 plans.” Pet. for Rehearing
24; see also Legislative Defendants’ Supp. Brief on Rehearing
in Harper v. Hall, No. 413PA21–2, p. 56
(N. C., Feb. 17, 2023) (“[T]he Court’s dictate
that the 2021 plans may not be used ‘in any future
elections’ would not be vacated.”). With those
concessions on the record, the North Carolina Supreme Court issued
its decision “overruling” Harper I, and—by
contrast—“withdraw[ing]” its decision in
Harper II. Harper, ___ N. C., at ___, 886
S. E. 2d, at 449. And mirroring their representations before
the North Carolina Supreme Court, the legislative defendants now
maintain in this Court that they continue to remain bound by the
judgment in Harper I.

															In an effort to cast doubt on these consistent
representations by the injured party before us, Justice Thomas
contends that the legislative defendants have already received
complete relief because nothing now prevents the implementation of
the 2021 maps. Post, at 15 (dissenting opinion). For the
reasons stated above, that would come as a surprise to both the
legislative defendants and the North Carolina Supreme Court. The
dissent also emphasizes that several of the plaintiffs contest our
jurisdiction. Post, at 6. But that has been their position
from the very beginning, and it did not prevent our granting
certiorari. The concessions offered by the legislative defendants
as part of the rehearing proceedings, the recent opinion issued by
the North Carolina Supreme Court, and the legislative
defendants’ briefing in this Court all tell the same story:
Harper I continues to enjoin the use of the 2021 maps.
Following the dissent’s logic and dismissing this case as
moot would foreclose the one path to full relief available to the
legislative defendants: A decision by this Court reversing the
judgment in Harper I.

															This Court has before it a judgment issued by a
State’s highest court that adjudicates a federal
constitutional issue. The defendants did not ask the North Carolina
Supreme Court to vacate that judgment, that court did not purport
to do so, and the defendants now concede that they remain bound by
it. Cox Broadcasting considered our exercise of jurisdiction
where the “federal issue . . . will
survive and require decision regardless of the outcome of future
state-court proceedings.” 420 U. S., at 480. Unlike
cases in which we must anticipate what the future might hold, we
now know the resolution of the anticipated state court proceedings.
The record shows that Harper I finally decided the Elections
Clause question, the judgment in that case continues to bind the
parties before us, and the 2021 congressional maps would again take
effect in North Carolina were we to reverse. Accordingly, we have
jurisdiction under both Article III and §1257(a).

															III

															The question on the merits is whether the
Elections Clause insulates state legislatures from review by state
courts for compliance with state law.

															Since early in our Nation’s history,
courts have recognized their duty to evaluate the constitutionality
of legislative acts. We announced our responsibility to review laws
that are alleged to violate the Federal Constitution in
Marbury v. Madison, proclaiming that “[i]t is
emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to
say what the law is.” 1 Cranch 137, 177 (1803).
Marbury confronted and rejected the argument that Congress
may exceed constitutional limits on the exercise of its authority.
“Certainly all those who have framed written
constitutions,” we reasoned, “contemplate them as
forming the fundamental and paramount law of the nation, and
consequently the theory of every such government must be, that an
act of the legislature, repugnant to the constitution, is
void.” Ibid.
Marbury proclaimed our authority to
invalidate laws that violate the Federal Constitution, but it did
not fashion this concept out of whole cloth. Before the
Constitutional Convention convened in the summer of 1787, a number
of state courts had already moved “in isolated but important
cases to impose restraints on what the legislatures were enacting
as law.” G. Wood, The Creation of the American Republic
1776–1787, pp. 454–455 (1969). Although judicial
review emerged cautiously, it matured throughout the founding era.
These state court decisions provided a model for James Madison,
Alexander Hamilton, and others who would later defend the principle
of judicial review.

															In the 1786 case Trevett v.
Weeden, for example, lawyer James Varnum challenged a Rhode
Island statute on the ground that it failed to provide the right to
a jury trial. Although Rhode Island lacked a written constitution,
Varnum argued that the State nevertheless had a constitution
reflecting the basic historical rights of the English. And, he
contended, the courts must honor “the principles of the
constitution in preference to any acts of the General
Assembly.” J. Varnum, The Case, Trevett v.
Weeden, reprinted in 1 B. Schwartz, The Bill of Rights: A
Documentary History 424 (1971). Varnum won, to the dismay of the
State’s legislature, which replaced four of the five judges
involved. W. Treanor, Judicial Review Before Marbury, 58
Stan. L. Rev. 455, 478 (2005). His arguments were published as
a pamphlet, which “may well have been the most prominent
discussion of judicial review at the time of the Philadelphia
Constitutional Convention.” Id., at 477.

															The North Carolina Supreme Court played its own
part in establishing judicial review. In Bayard v.
Singleton, the court considered the constitutionality of a
1785 Act by the State’s General Assembly that prevented
British loyalists from challenging property seizures before a jury.
1 Mort. 48 (1787). The court held the Act “abrogated and
without any effect,” for “it was clear” that the
legislature could not pass an Act that “could by any means
repeal or alter the constitution.” Id., at 50.
Otherwise, the legislature “would at the same instant of
time, destroy their own existence as a Legislature, and dissolve
the government thereby established.” Ibid. James
Iredell, who would later serve as an inaugural Justice of this
Court, penned at the time an open letter “To the
Public” expounding a robust concept of judicial review. 2
Life and Correspondence of James Iredell 145 (1846). “[T]he
power of the Assembly,” he wrote, “is limited and
defined by the constitution.” Id., at 146. The
legislature, after all, “is a creature of the
constitution.” Ibid.

															North Carolina and Rhode Island did not stand
alone. See, e.g., Holmes v. Walton (N. J.
1780), described in A. Scott, Holmes vs. Walton: The
New Jersey Precedent, 4 Am. Hist. Rev. 456 (1899); State v.
Parkhurst, 9 N. J. L. 427, 444 (1802) (citing
Holmes as holding that a statute providing for a six-person
jury was “unconstitutional”). All told, “[s]tate
courts in at least seven states invalidated state or local laws
under their State constitutions before 1787,” which
“laid the foundation for judicial review.” J. Sutton,
51 Imperfect Solutions 13 (2018).

															The Framers recognized state decisions
exercising judicial review at the Constitutional Convention of
1787. On July 17, James Madison spoke in favor of a federal council
of revision that could negate laws passed by the States. He lauded
the Rhode Island judges “who refused to execute an
unconstitutional law,” lamenting that the State’s
legislature then “displaced” them to substitute others
“who would be willing instruments of the wicked &
arbitrary plans of their masters.” 2 Records of the Federal
Convention of 1787, p. 28 (M. Farrand ed. 1911). A week later,
Madison extolled as one of the key virtues of a constitutional
system that “[a] law violating a constitution established by
the people themselves, would be considered by the Judges as null
& void.” Id., at 93. Elbridge Gerry, a delegate
from Massachusetts, also spoke in favor of judicial review. (Known
for drawing a contorted legislative district that looked like a
salamander, Gerry later became the namesake for the
“gerrymander.”) At the Convention, he noted that
“[i]n some States the Judges had [actually] set aside laws as
being agst. the Constitution.” 1 id., at 97
(alteration in original by James Madison). Such judicial review, he
noted, was met “with general approbation.”
Ibid.

															Writings in defense of the proposed Constitution
echoed these comments. In the Federalist Papers, Alexander Hamilton
maintained that “courts of justice” have the
“duty . . . to declare all acts contrary to the
manifest tenor of the Constitution void.” The Federalist No.
78, p. 466 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961). “[T]his doctrine” of
judicial review, he also wrote, was “equally applicable to
most if not all the State governments.” Id., No. 81,
at 482.

															State cases, debates at the Convention, and
writings defending the Constitution all advanced the concept of
judicial review. And in the years immediately following
ratification, courts grew assured of their power to void laws
incompatible with constitutional provisions. See Treanor, 58 Stan.
L. Rev., at 473, 497–498. The idea that courts may
review legislative action was so “long and well
established” by the time we decided Marbury in 1803
that Chief Justice Marshall referred to judicial review as
“one of the fundamental principles of our society.” 1
Cranch, at 176–177.

															IV

															We are asked to decide whether the Elections
Clause carves out an exception to this basic principle. We hold
that it does not. The Elections Clause does not insulate state
legislatures from the ordinary exercise of state judicial
review.

															A

															We first considered the interplay between
state constitutional provisions and a state legislature’s
exercise of authority under the Elections Clause in Ohio
ex rel. Davis v. Hildebrant, 241 U.S.
565 (1916). There, we examined the application to the Elections
Clause of a provision of the Ohio Constitution permitting the
State’s voters “to approve or disapprove by popular
vote any law enacted by the General Assembly.” Id., at
566. In 1915, the Ohio General Assembly drew new congressional
districts, which the State’s voters then rejected through
such a popular referendum. Asked to disregard the referendum, the
Ohio Supreme Court refused, explaining that the Elections
Clause—while “conferring the power therein defined upon
the various state legislatures”—did not preclude
subjecting legislative Acts under the Clause to “a popular
vote.” State ex rel. Davis v. Hildebrant,
94 Ohio St. 154, 163, 114 N.E. 55, 58 (1916).

															We unanimously affirmed, rejecting as
“plainly without substance” the contention that
“to include the referendum within state legislative power for
the purpose of apportionment is repugnant to §4 of Article I
[the Elections Clause].” Hildebrant, 241 U. S.,
at 569; see also Hawke v. Smith, 253 U.S.
221, 230–231 (1920) (describing Hildebrant as
holding that “the referendum provision of the state
constitution when applied to a law redistricting the State with a
view to representation in Congress was not
unconstitutional”).

															Smiley v. Holm, decided 16 years
after Hildebrant, considered the effect of a
Governor’s veto of a state redistricting plan. 285 U.S.
355, 361 (1932). Following the 15th decennial census in 1930,
Minnesota lost one seat in its federal congressional delegation.
The State’s legislature divided Minnesota’s then nine
congressional districts in 1931 and sent its Act to the Governor
for his approval. The Governor vetoed the plan pursuant to his
authority under the State’s Constitution. But the Minnesota
Secretary of State nevertheless began to implement the
legislature’s map for upcoming elections. A citizen sued,
contending that the legislature’s map “was a nullity in
that, after the Governor’s veto, it was not repassed by the
legislature as required by law.” Id., at 362. The
Minnesota Supreme Court disagreed. In its view, “the
authority so given by” the Elections Clause “is
unrestricted, unlimited, and absolute.” State ex rel.
Smiley v. Holm, 184 Minn. 228, 242, 238 N.W. 494, 501
(1931). The Elections Clause, it held, conferred upon the
legislature “the exclusive right to redistrict” such
that its actions were “beyond the reach of the
judiciary.” Id., at 243, 238 N. W., at 501.

															We unanimously reversed. A state
legislature’s “exercise of . . .
authority” under the Elections Clause, we held, “must
be in accordance with the method which the State has prescribed for
legislative enactments.” Smiley, 285 U. S., at
367. Nowhere in the Federal Constitution could we find
“provision of an attempt to endow the legislature of the
State with power to enact laws in any manner other than that in
which the constitution of the State has provided that laws shall be
enacted.” Id., at 368.

															Smiley relied on founding-era provisions,
constitutional structure, and historical practice, each of which we
found persuasive. Two States at the time of the founding provided a
veto power, restrictions that were “well known.”
Ibid. (citing provisions in Massachusetts and New York).
Subjecting state legislatures to such a limitation “was no
more incongruous with the grant of legislative authority to
regulate congressional elections than the fact that the Congress in
making its regulations under the same provision would be subject to
the veto power of the President.” Ibid.; see also
Wesberry v. Sanders, 376 U.S.
1, 6 (1964) (Congress does not have “exclusive
authority” under the Elections Clause, independent of other
federal constitutional provisions). And “long and continuous
interpretation” as evidenced by “the established
practice in the states” provided further support.
Smiley, 285 U. S., at 369. We noted that many state
constitutions had adopted provisions allowing for executive vetoes,
“and that the uniform practice . . . has been to
provide for congressional districts by the enactment of statutes
with the participation of the Governor wherever the state
constitution provided for such participation.” Id., at
370.

															This Court recently reinforced the teachings of
Hildebrant and Smiley in a case considering the
constitutionality of an Arizona ballot initiative. Voters
“amended Arizona’s Constitution to remove redistricting
authority from the Arizona Legislature and vest that authority in
an independent commission.” Arizona State Legislature
v. Arizona Independent Redistricting Comm’n, 576 U.S.
787, 792 (2015). The Arizona Legislature challenged a congressional
map adopted by the commission, arguing that the Elections
“Clause precludes resort to an independent commission
. . . to accomplish redistricting.” Ibid. A
divided Court rejected that argument. The majority reasoned that
dictionaries of “the founding
era . . . capaciously define[d] the word
‘legislature,’ ” id., at
813–814, and concluded that the people of Arizona retained
the authority to create “an alternative legislative
process” by vesting the lawmaking power of redistricting in
an independent commission, id., at 817. The Court ruled, in
short, that although the Elections Clause expressly refers to the
“Legislature,” it does not preclude a State from
vesting congressional redistricting authority in a body other than
the elected group of officials who ordinarily exercise lawmaking
power. States, the Court explained, “retain autonomy to
establish their own governmental processes.” Id., at
816.

															The significant point for present purposes is
that the Court in Arizona State Legislature recognized that
whatever authority was responsible for redistricting, that entity
remained subject to constraints set forth in the State
Constitution. The Court embraced the core principle espoused in
Hildebrant and Smiley “that redistricting is a
legislative function, to be performed in accordance with the
State’s prescriptions for lawmaking, which may include the
referendum and the Governor’s veto.” 576 U. S., at
808; see also id., at 840–841 (Roberts, C. J.,
dissenting) (recognizing that Hildebrant and Smiley
support the imposition of “some constraints on the
legislature”). The Court dismissed the argument that the
Elections Clause divests state constitutions of the power to
enforce checks against the exercise of legislative power:
“Nothing in [the Elections] Clause instructs, nor has this
Court ever held, that a state legislature may prescribe regulations
on the time, place, and manner of holding federal elections in
defiance of provisions of the State’s constitution.”
576 U. S., at 817–818 (majority opinion).

															The reasoning we unanimously embraced in
Smiley commands our continued respect: A state legislature
may not “create congressional districts independently
of ” requirements imposed “by the state
constitution with respect to the enactment of laws.” 285
U. S., at 373.

															B

															The legislative defendants and the dissent
both contend that, because the Federal Constitution gives state
legislatures the power to regulate congressional elections, only
that Constitution can restrain the exercise of that power.
Brief for Petitioners 22; post, at 17 (opinion of Thomas,
J.). The legislative defendants cite for support Federalist
No. 78, which explains that the wielding of legislative power
is constrained by “the tenor of the commission under which it
is exercised.” The Federalist No. 78, at 466; see Tr. of Oral
Arg. 4.

															This argument simply ignores the precedent just
described. Hildebrant, Smiley, and Arizona State
Legislature each rejected the contention that the Elections
Clause vests state legislatures with exclusive and independent
authority when setting the rules governing federal elections.

															The argument advanced by the defendants and the
dissent also does not account for the Framers’ understanding
that when legislatures make laws, they are bound by the provisions
of the very documents that give them life. Legislatures, the
Framers recognized, “are the mere creatures of the State
Constitutions, and cannot be greater than their creators.” 2
Farrand 88. “What are Legislatures? Creatures of the
Constitution; they owe their existence to the Constitution: they
derive their powers from the Constitution: It is their commission;
and, therefore, all their acts must be conformable to it, or else
they will be void.” Vanhorne’s Lessee v.
Dorrance, 2 Dall. 304, 308 (Pa. 1795). Marbury
confirmed this understanding, 1 Cranch, at 176–177, and
nothing in the text of the Elections Clause undermines it. When a
state legislature carries out its constitutional power to prescribe
rules regulating federal elections, the “commission under
which” it exercises authority is two-fold. The Federalist No.
78, at 467. The legislature acts both as a lawmaking body created
and bound by its state constitution, and as the entity assigned
particular authority by the Federal Constitution. Both
constitutions restrain the legislature’s exercise of
power.

															Turning to our precedents, the defendants quote
from our analysis of the Electors Clause in McPherson v.
Blacker, 146 U.S. 1
(1892). That Clause—similar to the Elections
Clause—provides that “Each State shall appoint, in such
Manner as the Legislature thereof may direct, a [specified] Number
of Electors.” Art. II, §1, cl. 2.
McPherson considered a challenge to the Michigan
Legislature’s decision to allocate the State’s
electoral votes among the individual congressional districts,
rather than to the State as a whole. We upheld that decision,
explaining that in choosing Presidential electors, the Clause
“leaves it to the legislature exclusively to define the
method of effecting the object.” 146 U. S., at 27.

															Our decision in McPherson, however, had
nothing to do with any conflict between provisions of the Michigan
Constitution and action by the State’s legislature—the
issue we confront today. McPherson instead considered
whether Michigan’s Legislature itself directly violated the
Electors Clause (by taking from the “State” the power
to appoint and vesting that power in separate districts), the
Fourteenth Amendment (by allowing voters to vote for only one
Elector rather than “Electors”), and a particular
federal statute. Id., at 8–9 (argument for plaintiffs
in error). Nor does the quote highlighted by petitioners tell the
whole story. Chief Justice Fuller’s opinion for the Court
explained that “[t]he legislative power is the supreme
authority except as limited by the constitution of the
State.” Id., at 25 (emphasis added); see also
ibid. (“What is forbidden or required to be done by a
State is forbidden or required of the legislative power under state
constitutions as they exist.”).

															The legislative defendants and Justice Thomas
rely as well on our decision in Leser v. Garnett,
258 U.S.
130 (1922), but it too offers little support. See post,
at 17, 20–21. Leser addressed an argument that the
Nineteenth Amendment—providing women the right to
vote—was invalid because state constitutional provisions
“render[ed] inoperative the alleged ratifications by their
legislatures.” 258 U. S., at 137. We rejected that
position, holding that when state legislatures ratify amendments to
the Constitution, they carry out “a federal function derived
from the Federal Constitution,” which “transcends any
limitations sought to be imposed by the people of a State.”
Ibid.

															But the legislature in Leser performed a
ratifying function rather than engaging in traditional lawmaking.
The provisions at issue in today’s case—like the
provisions examined in Hildebrant and
Smiley—concern a state legislature’s exercise of
lawmaking power. And as we held in Smiley, when state
legislatures act pursuant to their Elections Clause authority, they
engage in lawmaking subject to the typical constraints on the
exercise of such power. 285 U. S., at 367. We have already
distinguished Leser on those grounds. Smiley, 285
U. S., at 365–366. In addition, Leser cited for
support our decision in Hawke v. Smith, which sharply
separated ratification “from legislative action” under
the Elections Clause. 253 U. S., at 228. Lawmaking under the
Elections Clause, Hawke explained, “is entirely
different from the requirement of the Constitution as to the
expression of assent or dissent to a proposed amendment to the
Constitution.” Id., at 231.

															Hawke and Smiley delineated the
various roles that the Constitution assigns to state legislatures.
Legislatures act as “Consent[ing]” bodies when the
Nation purchases land, Art. I, §8, cl. 17; as
“Ratif[ying]” bodies when they agree to proposed
Constitutional amendments, Art. V; and—prior to the
passage of the Seventeenth Amendment—as
“electoral” bodies when they choose United States
Senators, Smiley, 285 U. S., at 365; see also Art. I,
§3, cl. 1; Amdt. 17 (providing for the direct election of
Senators).

															By fulfilling their constitutional duty to craft
the rules governing federal elections, state legislatures do not
consent, ratify, or elect—they make laws. Elections are
complex affairs, demanding rules that dictate everything from the
date on which voters will go to the polls to the dimensions and
font of individual ballots. Legislatures must “provide a
complete code for congressional elections,” including
regulations “relati[ng] to notices, registration, supervision
of voting, protection of voters, prevention of fraud and corrupt
practices, counting of votes, duties of inspectors and canvassers,
and making and publication of election returns.”
Smiley, 285 U. S., at 366. In contrast, a simple
up-or-down vote suffices to ratify an amendment to the
Constitution. Providing consent to the purchase of land or electing
Senators involves similarly straightforward exercises of authority.
But fashioning regulations governing federal elections
“unquestionably calls for the exercise of lawmaking
authority.” Arizona State Legislature, 576 U. S.,
at 808, n. 17. And the exercise of such authority in the
context of the Elections Clause is subject to the ordinary
constraints on lawmaking in the state constitution.

															In sum, our precedents have long rejected the
view that legislative action under the Elections Clause is purely
federal in character, governed only by restraints found in the
Federal Constitution.

															C

															Addressing our decisions in Smiley and
Hildebrant, both the legislative defendants and Justice
Thomas concede that at least some state constitutional provisions
can restrain a state legislature’s exercise of authority
under the Elections Clause. But they read those cases to
differentiate between procedural and substantive constraints. Brief
for Petitioners 24; post, at 21–22 (opinion of Thomas,
J.). Smiley, in their view, stands for the proposition that
state constitutions may impose only procedural hoops through which
legislatures must jump in crafting rules governing federal
elections. This concededly “formalistic” approach views
the Governor’s veto at issue in Smiley as one such
procedural restraint. Tr. of Oral Arg. 62. But when it comes to
substantive provisions, their argument goes, our precedents have
nothing to say.

															This argument adopts too cramped a view of our
decision in Smiley. Chief Justice Hughes’s opinion for
the Court drew no distinction between “procedural” and
“substantive” restraints on lawmaking. It turned on the
view that state constitutional provisions apply to a
legislature’s exercise of lawmaking authority under the
Elections Clause, with no concern about how those provisions might
be categorized. 285 U. S., at 367–368; see also
Hildebrant, 241 U. S., at 569–570.

															The same goes for the Court’s decision in
Arizona State Legislature. The defendants attempt to cabin
that case by arguing that the Court did not address substantive
limits on the regulation of federal elections. But as in
Smiley, the Court’s decision in Arizona State
Legislature discussed no difference between procedure and
substance.

															The dissent reads Smiley and Arizona
State Legislature in a different light. Justice Thomas thinks
those cases say nothing about whether a State can impose
“substantive limits” on the legislature’s
exercise of power under the Elections Clause. Post, at 21.
But in Smiley, we addressed whether “the conditions
which attach to the making of state laws” apply to
legislatures exercising authority under the Elections Clause. 285
U. S., at 365. We held that they do. “Much that is urged
in argument with regard to the meaning of the term
‘Legislature,’ ” we explained, “is
beside the point.” Ibid. And we concluded in
straightforward terms that legislatures must abide by
“restriction[s] imposed by state
constitutions . . . when exercising the
lawmaking power” under the Elections Clause. Id., at
369. Arizona State Legislature said much the same,
emphasizing that, by its text, nothing in the Elections Clause
offers state legislatures carte blanche to act “in
defiance of provisions of the State’s constitution.”
576 U. S., at 818.

															The defendants and Justice Thomas do not in any
event offer a defensible line between procedure and substance in
this context. “The line between procedural and substantive
law is hazy.” Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins,
304 U.S.
64, 92 (1938)
(Reed, J., concurring in part); see also Shady Grove Orthopedic
Associates, P. A. v. Allstate Ins. Co., 559 U.S.
393, 419–420 (2010) (Stevens, J., concurring in part and
concurring in judgment). Many rules “are rationally capable
of classification as either.” Hanna v. Plumer,
380 U.S.
460, 472 (1965); see also Sun Oil Co. v. Wortman,
486 U.S.
717, 726 (1988) (“Except at the extremes, the terms
‘substance’ and ‘procedure’ precisely
describe very little except a dichotomy.”). Procedure, after
all, is often used as a vehicle to achieve substantive ends. When a
governor vetoes a bill because of a disagreement with its policy
consequences, has the governor exercised a procedural or
substantive restraint on lawmaking? Smiley did not endorse
such murky inquiries into the nature of constitutional restraints,
and we see no neat distinction today.

															D

															Were there any doubt, historical practice
confirms that state legislatures remain bound by state
constitutional restraints when exercising authority under the
Elections Clause. We have long looked to “settled and
established practice” to interpret the Constitution. The
Pocket Veto Case, 279 U.S.
655, 689 (1929). And we have found historical practice
particularly pertinent when it comes to the Elections and Electors
Clauses. Smiley, 285 U. S., at 369 (Elections Clause);
Chiafalo v. Washington, 591 U. S. ___,
___–___ (2020) (slip op., at 12–14) (Electors
Clause).

															Two state constitutional provisions adopted
shortly after the founding offer the strongest evidence.
Delaware’s 1792 Constitution provided that the State’s
congressional representatives “shall be voted for at the same
places where representatives in the State legislature are voted
for, and in the same manner.” Art. VIII, §2. Even though
the Elections Clause stated that the “Places” and
“Manner” of federal elections shall be
“prescribed” by the state legislatures, the Delaware
Constitution expressly enacted rules governing the
“places” and “manner” of holding elections
for federal office. An 1810 amendment to the Maryland Constitution
likewise embodied regulations falling within the scope of the
Elections and Electors Clauses. Article XIV provided that every
qualified citizen “shall vote, by
ballot, . . . for electors of the President and
Vice-President of the United States, [and] for Representatives of
this State in the Congress of the United States.” If the
Elections Clause had vested exclusive authority in state
legislatures, unchecked by state courts enforcing provisions of
state constitutions, these clauses would have been unenforceable
from the start.

															Besides the two specific provisions in Maryland
and Delaware, multiple state constitutions at the time of the
founding regulated federal elections by requiring that “[a]ll
elections shall be by ballot.” Ga. Const., Art. IV, §2
(1789); see also, e.g., Pa. Const., Art. III, §2
(1790); Ky. Const., Art. III, cl. 2 (1792); Tenn. Const., Art. III,
§3 (1796); Ohio Const., Art. IV, §2 (1803); La. Const.,
Art. VI, §13 (1812). These provisions directed the
“manner” of federal elections within the meaning of the
Elections Clause, as Madison himself explained at the
Constitutional Convention. See 2 Farrand 240 (“Whether the
electors should vote by ballot or vivâ voce” falls
within the “great latitude” of “regulating the
times places & manner of holding elections”).

															The legislative defendants discount this
evidence. They argue that those “by ballot” provisions
spoke only “to the offices that were created by” state
constitutions, and not to the federal offices to which the
Elections Clause applies. Tr. of Oral Arg. 18. We find no textual
hook for that strained reading. “All” meant then what
it means now.

															In addition, the Framers did not write the
Elections Clause on a blank slate—they instead borrowed from
the Articles of Confederation, which provided that “delegates
shall be annually appointed in such manner as the legislature of
each state shall direct.” Art. V. The two provisions
closely parallel. And around the time the Articles were adopted by
the Second Continental Congress, multiple States regulated the
“manner” of “appoint[ing] delegates,”
ibid., suggesting that the Framers did not understand that
language to insulate state legislative action from state
constitutional provisions. See Del. Const., Art. XI (1776); Md.
Const., Art. XXVII (1776); Va. Const., cls. 3–4 (1776); Pa.
Const., §11 (1776); N. C. Const., Art. XXXVII (1776); Ga.
Const., Art. XVI (1777); N. Y. Const., Art. XXX (1777); S. C.
Const., Art. XXII (1778); Mass. Const., pt. 2, ch. IV (1780);
N. H. Const., pt. II (1784).

															The defendants stress an 1820 convention held in
Massachusetts to amend the Commonwealth’s Constitution. After
a Boston delegate proposed a provision regulating the manner of
federal elections, Joseph Story—then a Justice of this
Court—nixed the effort. In Story’s view, such a
provision would run afoul of the Elections Clause by
“assum[ing] a control over the Legislature, which the
constitution of the United States does not justify.” Journal
of the Debates and Proceedings in the Convention of Delegates 110
(1853). But Story’s comment elicited little discussion, and
reflects the views of a jurist who, although “a brilliant and
accomplished man, . . . was not a member of the Founding
generation.” U. S. Term Limits, Inc. v.
Thornton, 514 U.S.
779, 856 (1995) (Thomas, J., dissenting).

															V

															A

															Although we conclude that the Elections Clause
does not exempt state legislatures from the ordinary constraints
imposed by state law, state courts do not have free rein.
“State courts are the appropriate tribunals . . .
for the decision of questions arising under their local law,
whether statutory or otherwise.” Murdock v.
Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 626 (1875). At the same time, the
Elections Clause expressly vests power to carry out its provisions
in “the Legislature” of each State, a deliberate choice
that this Court must respect. As in other areas where the exercise
of federal authority or the vindication of federal rights
implicates questions of state law, we have an obligation to ensure
that state court interpretations of that law do not evade federal
law.

															State law, for example, “is one important
source” for defining property rights. Tyler v.
Hennepin County, 598 U. S. ___, ___ (2023) (slip op.,
at 5); see also Board of Regents of State
Colleges v. Roth, 408 U.S.
564, 577 (1972) (property rights “are created and their
dimensions are defined by existing rules or understandings that
stem from an independent source such as state law”). At the
same time, the Federal Constitution provides that “private
property” shall not “be taken for public use, without
just compensation.” Amdt. 5. As a result, States “may
not sidestep the Takings Clause by disavowing traditional property
interests.” Phillips v. Washington Legal
Foundation, 524 U.S.
156, 164 (1998); see also Webb’s Fabulous Pharmacies,
Inc. v. Beckwith, 449 U.S.
155, 164 (1980) (holding that States may not, “by ipse
dixit, . . . transform private property into public
property without compensation”).

															A similar principle applies with respect to the
Contracts Clause, which provides that “[n]o state shall
. . . pass any . . . Law impairing the
Obligation of Contracts.” Art. I, §10, cl. 1. In that
context “we accord respectful consideration and great weight
to the views of the State’s highest court.” Indiana
ex rel. Anderson v. Brand, 303 U.S.
95, 100 (1938). Still, “in order that the constitutional
mandate may not become a dead letter, we are bound to decide for
ourselves whether a contract was made.” Ibid.; see
also General Motors Corp. v. Romein, 503 U.S.
181, 187 (1992).

															Cases raising the question whether adequate and
independent grounds exist to support a state court judgment involve
a similar inquiry. We have in those cases considered whether a
state court opinion below adopted novel reasoning to stifle the
“vindication in state courts of . . . federal
constitutional rights.” NAACP v. Alabama ex rel.
Patterson, 357 U.S.
449, 457–458 (1958).

															Running through each of these examples is the
concern that state courts might read state law in such a manner as
to circumvent federal constitutional provisions. Therefore,
although mindful of the general rule of accepting state court
interpretations of state law, we have tempered such deference when
required by our duty to safeguard limits imposed by the Federal
Constitution.

															Members of this Court last discussed the outer
bounds of state court review in the present context in Bush
v. Gore, 531 U.S.
98 (2000) (per curiam). Our decision in that case
turned on an application of the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Id., at 104–105. In separate
writings, several Justices addressed whether Florida’s
Supreme Court, in construing provisions of Florida statutory law,
exceeded the bounds of ordinary judicial review to an extent that
its interpretation violated the Electors Clause.

															Chief Justice Rehnquist, joined in a concurring
opinion by Justice Thomas and Justice Scalia, acknowledged the
usual deference we afford state court interpretations of state law,
but noted “areas in which the Constitution requires this
Court to undertake an independent, if still deferential, analysis
of state law.” Id., at 114. He declined to give effect
to interpretations of Florida election laws by the Florida Supreme
Court that “impermissibly distorted them beyond what a fair
reading required.” Id., at 115. Justice Souter, for
his part, considered whether a state court interpretation
“transcends the limits of reasonable statutory interpretation
to the point of supplanting the statute enacted by the
‘legislature’ within the meaning of Article II.”
Id., at 133 (Souter, J., joined by Stevens, Ginsburg, and
Breyer, JJ., dissenting).

															We do not adopt these or any other test by which
we can measure state court interpretations of state law in cases
implicating the Elections Clause. The questions presented in this
area are complex and context specific. We hold only that state
courts may not transgress the ordinary bounds of judicial review
such that they arrogate to themselves the power vested in state
legislatures to regulate federal elections.

															B

															We decline to address whether the North
Carolina Supreme Court strayed beyond the limits derived from the
Elections Clause. The legislative defendants did not meaningfully
present the issue in their petition for certiorari or in their
briefing, nor did they press the matter at oral argument. See
Bay Area Laundry and Dry Cleaning Pension Trust Fund v.
Ferbar Corp. of Cal., 522 U.S.
192, 206–208 (1997); see also California v.
Texas, 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 10).
Counsel for the defendants expressly disclaimed the argument that
this Court should reassess the North Carolina Supreme Court’s
reading of state law. Tr. of Oral Arg. 7 (“We’re not
asking this Court to second-guess or reassess. We say take the
North Carolina Supreme Court’s decision on face value and as
fairly reflecting North Carolina law
. . . .”). When pressed whether North
Carolina’s Supreme Court did not fairly interpret its State
Constitution, counsel reiterated that such an argument was
“not our position in this Court.” Id., at 54.
Although counsel attempted to expand the scope of the argument in
rebuttal, such belated efforts do not overcome prior failures to
preserve the issue for review. See this Court’s Rule 28
(“[C]ounsel making the opening argument shall present the
case fairly and completely and not reserve points of substance for
rebuttal.”).

															*  *  *

															State courts retain the authority to apply
state constitutional restraints when legislatures act under the
power conferred upon them by the Elections Clause. But federal
courts must not abandon their own duty to exercise judicial review.
In interpreting state law in this area, state courts may not so
exceed the bounds of ordinary judicial review as to
unconstitutionally intrude upon the role specifically reserved to
state legislatures by Article I, Section 4, of the Federal
Constitution. Because we need not decide whether that occurred in
today’s case, the judgment of the North Carolina Supreme
Court is affirmed.[2]

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 The plaintiffs also
asserted that North Carolina’s Legislature discriminated on
the basis of race and raised other claims under the North Carolina
Constitution. Harper I, 380 N. C., at 350–352,
868 S. E. 2d, at 526–527. Those claims are not at issue
today.
2
 As noted, supra,
at 5–6, the North Carolina Supreme Court withdrew the opinion
in Harper II, which addressed both the remedial maps
developed by the General Assembly and an order by the trial court
implementing an interim plan for the 2022 elections. The remedial
order, having been withdrawn, is not before us, and our decision
today does not pass on the constitutionality of any particular map
adopted by the state courts.


