::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1454
::decision_name::  Ohio Adjutant General's Department v. Federal Labor Relations Authority
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1454

															_________________

															THE OHIO ADJUTANT GENERAL’S DEPARTMENT,
et al., PETITIONERS v. FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS
AUTHORITY, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[May 18, 2023]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Gorsuch
joins, dissenting.

															Petitioners, the Ohio National Guard, the Ohio
Adjutant General, and the Ohio Adjutant General’s Department,
challenge the lawfulness of an order of the Federal Labor Relations
Authority (FLRA). That order directs petitioners to honor their
existing agreement with the union that represents the dual-status
civilian technicians who are members of the Ohio National Guard and
to bargain in good faith with the union in the future. The Court
correctly observes that the FLRA’s ability to enter such an
order against petitioners “turns on whether petitioners are
an ‘agency’ for purposes of the” Federal Service
Labor- Management Relations Statute. Ante, at 5; see 5
U. S. C. §7105(g)(3). But the Court stops short of
answering that question, holding instead that petitioners
“act as a federal ‘agency,’ ”
ante, at 1, “exercise the authority of ” a
covered agency, ante, at 7, and even “functio[n] as an
agency,” ante, at 6. Because petitioners are not
actually federal agencies, a proposition that the Court does
not dispute, the FLRA lacks jurisdiction to enter remedial orders
against them.

															I

															These dual-status civilian technicians are
indeed strange creatures—“rare bird[s,]” as we
called them last Term. Babcock v. Kijakazi, 595
U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 2); ante, at
2–3. For that reason, any decision we make here may have odd
spillover effects. See, e.g., Nelson v.
Geringer, 
295 F.3d 1082, 1084, 1086 (CA10 2002) (considering a Rev. Stat.
§1979, 42 U. S. C. §1983 claim, which is
available for deprivations of rights under state law, against a
state adjutant general); Singleton v. MSPB, 
244 F.3d 1331, 1336–1337 (CA Fed. 2001) (holding that the
Merit Systems Protection Board lacks authority over state adjutants
general because they are not federal employees or agencies);
Chaudoin v. Atkinson, 494 F.2d 1323, 1329 (CA3 1974)
(allowing a mandamus action brought by a civilian technician to
proceed against a state adjutant general based on the court’s
authority “ ‘to compel an officer or employee of
the United States or any agency thereof to perform a duty owed to
the plaintiff ’ ” (quoting 28
U. S. C. §1361)). But the consequences of
petitioners’ theory are not nearly as odd as the majority
claims, and a plain reading of the statutory text leads ineluctably
to the conclusion that petitioners are not “agenc[ies]”
within the meaning of the Federal Service Labor-Management
Relations Statute (FSLMRS or Statute). 5 U. S. C.
§7105(g)(3).

															A

															“[W]e begin by analyzing the statutory
language,” for “[w]e must enforce plain and unambiguous
statutory language according to its terms.” Hardt v.
Reliance Standard Life Ins. Co., 560
U.S. 242, 251 (2010). The conclusion that petitioners should
prevail follows from a straightforward reading of the
statute’s text.

															First, the FSLMRS gives the FLRA remedial
jurisdiction over an entity if it is “an agency or a labor
organization.” §7105(g)(3). Second, petitioners
are obviously not labor organizations, and thus the only question
before us is whether they are “agenc[ies].”
Third, “agency,” a defined term in the FSLMRS,
means, with certain exceptions not relevant here, “an
Executive agency.” §7103(a)(3). Fourth, an
“Executive agency” is defined as “an Executive
department, a Government corporation, [or] an independent
establishment.” §105. Fifth, no petitioner is
listed among the executive departments in §101’s
exhaustive list. See §101. Likewise, no petitioner is either a
“Government corporation” (i.e., a
“corporation owned or controlled by the Government of the
United States,” §103(1)) or an independent establishment
(i.e., “an establishment in the executive
branch,” §104(1)). Thus, no petitioner is an
“agency” within the meaning of the FSLMRS, and that
means that the FLRA lacks remedial jurisdiction over petitioners
under §7105(g)(3).

															Interpretation of a statute both “begins
with the statutory text, and ends there as well” if the text
is “ ‘unambiguous.’ ” National
Assn. of Mfrs. v. Department of Defense, 583 U.S. 109,
127 (2018). This simple textual analysis shows that the
FSLMRS’s language unambiguously does not allow the FLRA to
direct a remedial order to any petitioner. That should be the end
of the matter.

															B

															Because it is so clear that no petitioner is
an “agency,” the Court sidesteps the issue. Instead, it
rests its decision on three main grounds. It notes: (1) the dual
status technicians are federal employees, (2) petitioners
“exercise the authority of ” a covered agency as
components or representatives of that agency, ante, at 7,
and (3) pre-FSLMRS administrative practice supports the
FLRA’s exercise of jurisdiction. None of these grounds
justifies the conclusion that any of the petitioners is an
“agency” subject to the FLRA’s remedial
authority.

															1

															The Court refers repeatedly to the uncontested
proposition that the technicians are federal employees, are subject
to federal civil-service requirements, and are employed under
federal law. Ante, at 3, 7–8, 11. The Court posits
that “it would be passing strange if dual-status technicians,
who qualify as employees under the Statute, were supervised by an
entity not required to safeguard the rights guaranteed employees
under the Statute.” Ante, at 8. But the question on
which this case turns is not whether the technicians are federal
employees or whether they have civil service or bargaining rights.
It is not even whether petitioners are obligated to
“safeguard” the technicians’ bargaining rights.
The question is whether any such obligations can be enforced by
means of an order from the FLRA.

															In the context of our own remedial authority, we
regularly acknowledge many potential impediments to granting a
judicial remedy, even to a litigant that might be able to prove
that another party has breached its rights. For instance, we might
lack subject-matter jurisdiction over a particular claim, see,
e.g., Steel Co. v. Citizens for Better
Environment, 523 U.S.
83, 94–95 (1998), or lack personal jurisdiction over a
particular defendant, see, e.g., Daimler AG v.
Bauman, 571 U.S.
117, 121–122 (2014). The plaintiff may lack a private
right of action, see, e.g., Alexander v.
Sandoval, 532 U.S.
275, 293 (2001), or the defendant may have a valid immunity
defense, see, e.g., Wilson v. Layne, 526 U.S.
603, 605–606 (1999). The fact that litigants with
meritorious claims may not be able to obtain a particular remedy
from a particular source is not “strange,” but
perfectly ordinary.

															It is no more strange to say in this case that,
regardless of whatever rights and duties the parties may have, the
particular remedy of an FLRA order is unavailable.
“Administrative agencies are creatures of statute,”
National Federation of Independent Business v. OSHA,
595 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (per curiam) (slip op.,
at 5), and accordingly “have only those powers given to them
by Congress,” West Virginia v. EPA, 597
U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 19). If Congress wants the
FLRA to have authority to enter an order against any of the
petitioners, it must give the FLRA that authority. See American
Power & Light Co. v. SEC, 329 U.S.
90, 112–113 (1946) (contemplating that an agency’s
remedy may be set aside where it “is unwarranted in
law”).[1]*

															2

															Second, the Court reasons that petitioners, in
supervising the technicians, “exercise the authority of the
Department of Defense, a covered agency.” Ante, at 7.
The Court approvingly relates respondents’ argument that,
while petitioners may not be agencies, “the
components, representatives, and agents of an agency may be
required to comply with the Statute.” Ante, at 6. The
Court does not specify which of these three categories it thinks
petitioners fall into. It says only that petitioners are
“like components of an agency.” Ante, at
7 (emphasis added). And it finds that they are “like”
components of an agency because they supervise the technicians
pursuant to a “designat[ion]” from the heads of the
Departments of the Army and the Air Force, which are themselves
components of the Department of Defense. Ante, at 7–8.
Since the Department of Defense is an agency, the Court reasons
that the same must be true of petitioners.

															The problem with this reasoning is that a
“designat[ion]” to exercise the authority of an
“agency” does not turn the designee into an agency.
Just because A is designated to exercise the authority of B, it
does not follow that A is B. Here is an example. If an
administrative hearing officer in the Department of the Interior is
disqualified from hearing a case, that officer must report that
information “to the Secretary of the Interior or such
officer as he may designate.” 43 U. S. C.
§101 (emphasis added). The designated officer does not become
the Secretary by virtue of having been designated to carry out a
duty or exercise authority that would otherwise rest with the
Secretary.

															The same is true here. The designation of
petitioners by the Departments of the Army and Air Force to perform
some of those departments’ duties and to exercise some of
their authority does not turn petitioners into agencies or
necessarily have any effect beyond assigning them those duties and
responsibilities. 32 U. S. C. §709(d).

															The Court’s related and highly
functionalist argument that petitioners must be subject to the FLRA
because they “exercise the authority of ” an
agency in supervising the technicians similarly fails. Ante,
at 7. One entity may augment the power of another by delegating to
it certain authority. See, e.g., Youngstown Sheet &
Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S.
579, 635–638 (1952) (Jackson, J., concurring). That
delegation of authority, however, does not turn the latter entity
into the former one. That petitioners exercise authority
that federal agencies would otherwise hold does not make them
agencies any more than the President is Congress when he
exercises authority pursuant to congressional authorization. See
ibid.

															To be sure, the official who makes the
designation cannot delegate authority that he or she does not have.
If the FSLMRS constrains the Departments of the Army and Air Force
in their relationship with the technicians, it stands to reason
that those Departments cannot delegate to adjutants general the
power to supervise the technicians free from such constraints. As I
have explained, though, this case turns not on whether petitioners
have obligations to bargain with the technicians, but on whether
those obligations may be enforced against petitioners as if they
are “agenc[ies].” 5 U. S. C.
§7105(g)(3). And on that score, saying the Departments’
designation transforms petitioners into agencies, with all the
legal ramifications of that label, is no more sensible than saying
the officer the Secretary of the Interior designates to receive
disqualification notices becomes, like the Secretary of the
Interior, a principal officer of the United States subject to
Senate confirmation. U. S. Const., Art. II, §2.

															3

															Finally, the Court’s reliance on the
Statute’s “saving clause,” §7135(b), and on
the Assistant Secretary of Labor’s decision in Thompson
Field, is both misplaced and unpersuasive on its own terms. See
Mississippi National Guard, 172d Military Airlift Group (Thompson
Field), Asst. Sec. Labor/Management Reports (A/SLMR) No. 20
(Thompson Field).

															Section 7135(b) provides that “[p]olicies,
regulations, and procedures established under and decisions issued
under Executive Orde[r] 11491 . . . shall remain in full
force and effect until revised or revoked by the President, or
unless superseded by specific provisions of [the Statute] or by
regulations or decisions issued pursuant to [the Statute].”
This language merely directs that, absent specific abrogation by
the FSLMRS or reconsideration by the appropriate executive officer,
prior administrative policies, regulations, and procedures remain
just as binding on the Executive Branch as they were before
the adoption of the FSLMRS. The Court appears to agree, describing
the saving clause as having “continued” pre-FSLMRS
administrative practice. Ante, at 9.

															If that is all that the saving clause did,
however, I fail to see why it is relevant here. Congress’s
directive to “continu[e]” existing administrative
practices does not evince approval of any particular practice or
prevent a court from saying that a particular practice has been
unlawful all along. The saving clause “expressly intended to
allow both the [FLRA] and the courts to disregard . . .
earlier . . . interpretation[s] of the Executive
Order” and “did not intend for the [FLRA] or the courts
to pay any deference to [such earlier] interpretations.”
INS v. FLRA, 855 F.2d 1454, 1461 (CA9 1988); see also
Department of Air Force v. FLRA, 877 F.2d 1036, 1041
(CADC 1989) (§7135 “was merely intended to prevent the
slate from being wiped clean until the [FLRA] and the courts could
interpret the [FSLMRS] in a manner consistent with Congress’s
intent” (internal quotation marks omitted)). Prior agency
practice under the “materially identical” language of
Executive Order No. 11491 is thus no obstacle to adopting the
straightforward reading of “agency” the FSLMRS’s
text requires. Ante, at 10.

															Although the majority’s
historical-practice argument is flawed at the foundation because it
misreads §7135(b), the single administrative decision it cites
in support of its argument does not shed much light on the matter
at hand anyway. In Thompson Field, the Adjutant General of
the State of Mississippi raised a number of objections to federal
oversight of the technicians, including that the technicians are
not federal employees; that Executive Order No. 11491 is
categorically “not applicable to the State of
Mississippi”; and that bargaining with a technicians’
union would violate Mississippi law. Thompson Field, at
3–5.

															The Mississippi Adjutant General did not make
the argument that his Department is not an “agency”
within the meaning of the remedial provision of Executive Order No.
11491.

															Moreover, in deciding Thompson Field, the
Assistant Secretary of Labor relied principally on the fact that
dual- status civilian technicians are federal employees and that
the protections of Executive Order No. 11491 apply to them.
Id., at 6–7. That analysis does not answer the key
question whether the Mississippi Adjutant General is an
“agency” subject to remedial jurisdiction. And while
the Court quotes the Assistant Secretary’s remark that the
Adjutant General is “ ‘an agent of the Secretaries
of the Army and the Air Force,’ ” ante, at
10, that observation was made in the course of rejecting the
Adjutant General’s argument that Mississippi law did
not permit him to bargain with a labor organization. Thompson
Field, at 7. The Assistant Secretary was not addressing the
question whether being an “agent” of those Secretaries
rendered the Adjutant General sufficiently “like an
agency” to be subject to federal remedial jurisdiction.

															A single administrative decision, like a single
or even “a smattering of lower court opinions,” is
ordinarily not especially probative of statutory meaning. BP
p.l.c. v. Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, 593
U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 11); see also
George v. McDonough, 596 U. S. ___, ___ (2022)
(slip op., at 5) (explaining that a “robust regulatory
backdrop” may “fil[l] in the details” of a
statutory scheme (emphasis added)). The saving clause does not
render this case an exception. Consequently, a single
administrative decision by an Assistant Secretary that does not
even address the particular argument petitioners raise in this case
offers no reason to resist the conclusion that the Ohio Adjutant
General’s Department is plainly not a federal agency.

															II

															Because no petitioner is an
“agency” within the meaning of §7105(g)(3), I
would reverse the judgment of the Sixth Circuit and hold that
petitioners fall outside the remedial jurisdiction of the FLRA. I
respectfully dissent from the Court’s contrary
conclusion.

Notes
1
*Although an order from the
FLRA is not available, several mechanisms exist to remedy breaches
of petitioners’ obligations. As petitioners concede, the
National Guard Bureau may exert its authority via control of
funding and recognition of state guards. See Brief for Petitioners
33–34. And the Federal Government could bring a suit against
petitioners in an Article III court to enforce the
technicians’ bargaining rights. See, e.g., Seminole
Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U.S.
44, 71, n. 14 (1996).


