::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1086
::decision_name::  Allen v. Milligan
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 21–1086 and 21–1087

															_________________

															WES ALLEN, ALABAMA SECRETARY OF STATE,
et al., APPELLANTS

															21–1086v.

															EVAN MILLIGAN, et al.

															on appeal from the united states district
court for the northern district of alabama

															

															WES ALLEN, ALABAMA SECRETARY OF STATE,
et al., PETITIONERS

															21–1087v.

															MARCUS CASTER, et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the
united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[June 8, 2023]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Gorsuch
joins, dissenting.

															Based on a flawed understanding of the framework
adopted in Thornburg v. Gingles, 478 U.S.
30 (1986), the Court now holds that the congressional
districting map adopted by the Alabama Legislature violates §2
of the Voting Rights Act. Like the Court, I am happy to apply
Gingles in these cases. But I would interpret that precedent
in a way that heeds what §2 actually says, and I would take
constitutional requirements into account. When the Gingles
framework is viewed in this way, it is apparent that the decisions
below must be vacated.

															I

															A

															Gingles marked the Court’s first
encounter with the amended version of §2 that Congress enacted
in 1982, and the Court’s opinion set out an elaborate
framework that has since been used to analyze a variety of §2
claims. Under that framework, a plaintiff must satisfy three
“preconditions.” Id., at 50. As summarized in
more recent opinions, they are as follows:

															“First, [the] ‘minority
group’ [whose interest the plaintiff represents] must be
‘sufficiently large and geographically compact to constitute
a majority’ in some reasonably configured legislative
district. Second, the minority group must be ‘politically
cohesive.’ And third, a district’s white majority must
‘vote[ ] sufficiently as a bloc’ to usually
‘defeat the minority’s preferred
candidate.’ ” Cooper v. Harris, 581
U.S. 285, 301–302 (2017) (citations omitted).

															See also Wisconsin Legislature v.
Wisconsin Elections Comm’n, 595 U. S. ___, ___
(2022) (per curiam) (slip op., at 3); Merrill v.
Milligan, 595 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (Kagan, J.,
dissenting from grant of applications for stays) (slip op., at
3–4).

															If a §2 plaintiff can satisfy all these
preconditions, the court must then decide whether, based on the
totality of the circumstances, the plaintiff ’s right to
vote was diluted. See Gingles, 478 U. S., at
46–48, 79. And to aid in that inquiry, Gingles
approved consideration of a long list of factors set out in the
Senate Judiciary Committee’s Majority Report on the 1982 VRA
amendments. Id., at 44–45 (citing S. Rep. No.
97–417, pp. 28–30 (1982)).

															B

															My fundamental disagreement with the Court
concerns the first Gingles precondition. In cases like
these, where the claim is that §2 requires the creation of an
additional majority-minority district, the first precondition means
that the plaintiff must produce an additional illustrative
majority-minority district that is “reasonably
configured.” Cooper, 581 U. S., at 301;
Wisconsin Legislature, 595 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at
3); see also Gingles, 478 U. S., at 50.

															The Court’s basic error is that it
misunderstands what it means for a district to be “reasonably
configured.” Our cases make it clear that “reasonably
configured” is not a synonym for “compact.” We
have explained that the first precondition also takes into account
other traditional districting criteria like attempting to avoid the
splitting of political subdivisions and “communities of
interest.” League of United Latin American Citizens v.
Perry, 548 U.S.
399, 433–434 (2006) (LULAC).

															To its credit, the Court recognizes that
compactness is not enough and that a district is not reasonably
configured if it flouts other “traditional districting
criteria.” Ante, at 10. At various points in its
opinion it names quite a few: minimizing the splitting of counties
and other political subdivisions, keeping “communities of
interest” together where possible, and avoiding the creation
of new districts that require two incumbents to run against each
other. Ante, at 12, 26–27. In addition, the Court
acknowledges that a district is not “reasonably
configured” if it does not comport with the Equal Protection
Clause’s one-person, one-vote requirement. Ante, at
27. But the Court fails to explain why compliance with
“traditional districting criteria” matters under
§2 or why the only relevant equal protection principle is the
one-person, one-vote requirement. If the Court had attempted to
answer these questions, the defect in its understanding of the
first Gingles precondition would be unmistakable.

															To explain this, I begin with what is probably
the most frequently mentioned traditional districting criterion and
ask why it should matter under §2 whether a proposed
majority-minority district is “compact.” Neither the
Voting Rights Act (VRA) nor the Constitution imposes a compactness
requirement. The Court notes that we have struck down bizarrely
shaped districts, ante, at 19–20, but we did not do
that for esthetic reasons. Compactness in and of itself is not a
legal requirement—or even necessarily an esthetic one. (Some
may find fancifully shaped districts more pleasing to the eye than
boring squares.)

															The same is true of departures from other
traditional districting criteria. Again, nothing in the
Constitution or the VRA demands compliance with these criteria. If
a whimsical state legislature cavalierly disregards county and
municipal lines and communities of interest, draws weirdly shaped
districts, departs radically from a prior map solely for the
purpose of change, and forces many incumbents to run against each
other, neither the Constitution nor the VRA would make any of that
illegal per se. Bizarrely shaped districts and other marked
departures from traditional districting criteria matter because
mapmakers usually heed these criteria, and when it is evident that
they have not done so, there is reason to suspect that something
untoward—specifically, unconstitutional racial
gerrymandering—is afoot. See, e.g., Shaw v.
Reno, 509 U.S.
630, 643–644 (1993); Bush v. Vera,
517 U.S.
952, 979 (1996) (plurality opinion); cf. LULAC, 548
U. S., at 433–435.

															Conspicuous violations of traditional
districting criteria constitute strong circumstantial
evidence of unconstitutionality. And when it is shown that the
configuration of a district is attributable predominantly to race,
that is more than circumstantial evidence that the district is
unlawful. That is direct evidence of illegality because, as
we have often held, race may not “predominate” in the
drawing of district lines. See, e.g., Cooper, 581
U. S., at 292; Bethune-Hill v. Virginia State Bd. of
Elections, 580 U.S. 178, 191–192 (2017); Shaw v.
Hunt, 517 U.S.
899, 906–907 (1996) (Shaw II); Miller
v. Johnson, 515 U.S.
900, 920 (1995).[1]

															Because non-predominance is a longstanding and
vital feature of districting law, it must be honored in a
Gingles plaintiff ’s illustrative district. If
race predominated in the creation of such a district, the plaintiff
has failed to satisfy both our precedent, which requires
“reasonably configured” districts, and the terms of
§2, which demand equal openness. Two Terms ago, we engaged in
a close analysis of the text of §2 and explained that its
“key requirement” is that the political processes
leading to nomination or election must be
“ ‘equally open to participation’ by members
of a protected class.” Brnovich v. Democratic
National Committee, 594 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op.,
at 6, 15) (quoting 52 U. S. C. §10301(b); emphasis
deleted). “[E]qual openness,” we stressed, must be our
“touchstone” in interpreting and applying that
provision. 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15).

															When the race of one group is the predominant
factor in the creation of a district, that district goes beyond
making the electoral process equally open to the members of the
group in question. It gives the members of that group an advantage
that §2 does not require and that the Constitution may forbid.
And because the creation of majority- minority districts is
something of a zero-sum endeavor, giving an advantage to one
minority group may disadvantage others.

															C

															What all this means is that a §2
plaintiff who claims that a districting map violates §2
because it fails to include an additional majority-minority
district must show at the outset that such a district can be
created without making race the predominant factor in its creation.
The plaintiff bears both the burden of production and the burden of
persuasion on this issue, see Voinovich v. Quilter,
507 U.S.
146, 155–156 (1993); White v. Regester,
412 U.S.
755, 766 (1973), but a plaintiff can satisfy the former burden
simply by adducing evidence—in any acceptable form—that
race did not predominate.

															A plaintiff need not offer computer-related
evidence. Once upon a time, legislative maps were drawn without
using a computer, and nothing prevents a §2 plaintiff from
taking this old-school approach in creating an illustrative
district. See, e.g., M. Altman, K. McDonald, & M.
McDonald, From Crayons to Computers: The Evolution of Computer Use
in Redistricting, 23 Soc. Sci. Computer Rev. 334, 335–336
(2005). In that event, the plaintiff can simply call upon the
mapmaker to testify about the process he or she used and the role,
if any, that race played in that process. The defendant may seek to
refute that testimony in any way that the rules of civil procedure
and evidence allow.

															If, as will often be the case today, a §2
plaintiff ’s mapmaker uses a computer program, the
expert can testify about the weight, if any, that the program gives
to race. The plaintiff will presumably argue that any role assigned
to race was not predominant, and the defendant can contest this by
cross-examining the plaintiff ’s expert, seeking the
actual program in discovery, and calling its own expert to testify
about the program’s treatment of race. After this, the trial
court will be in a position to determine whether the program gave
race a “predominant” role.

															This is an entirely workable scheme. It does not
obligate either party to offer computer evidence, and it minimizes
the likelihood of a clash between what §2 requires and what
the Constitution forbids. We have long assumed that §2 is
consistent with the Constitution. See, e.g., Cooper,
581 U. S., at 301 (assuming States have a compelling interest
in complying with §2); Shaw II, 517 U. S., at 915
(same); Vera, 517 U. S., at 977 (plurality opinion)
(same). But that cannot mean that every conceivable interpretation
of §2 is constitutional, and I do not understand the
majority’s analysis of Alabama’s constitutional claim
to suggest otherwise. Ante, at 33–34; ante, at
4 (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in part).

															Our cases make it perfectly clear that using
race as a “predominant factor” in drawing legislative
districts is unconstitutional unless the stringent requirements of
strict scrutiny can be satisfied,[2] and therefore if §2 can be found to require the
adoption of an additional majority-minority district that was
created under a process that assigned race a
“predominant” role, §2 and the Constitution would
be headed for a collision.

															II

															When the meaning of a “reasonably
configured” district is properly understood, it is apparent
that the decisions below must be vacated and that the cases must be
remanded for the application of the proper test. In its analysis of
whether the plaintiffs satisfied the first Gingles
precondition, the District Court gave much attention to some
traditional districting criteria—specifically, compactness
and avoiding the splitting of political subdivisions and
communities of interest—but it failed to consider whether the
plaintiffs had shown that their illustrative districts were created
without giving race a “predominant role.”
Singleton v. Merrill, 582 F. Supp. 3d 924,
1008–1016 (ND Ala. 2022). For this reason, the District
Court’s §2 analysis was deficient.

															It is true that the District Court addressed the
question of race-predominance when it discussed and rejected the
State’s argument that the plaintiffs’ maps violated the
Equal Protection Clause, but the court’s understanding of
predominance was deeply flawed. The court began this part of its
opinion with this revealing statement:

															“Dr. Duchin and Mr. Cooper
[plaintiffs’ experts] testified that they prioritized
race only for the purpose of determining and to the extent
necessary to determine whether it was possible for the
Milligan plaintiffs and the Caster plaintiffs to
state a Section Two claim. As soon as they determined the answer to
that question, they assigned greater weight to other traditional
redistricting criteria.” Id., at 1029–1030
(emphasis added).

															This statement overlooks the obvious point that
by “prioritiz[ing] race” at the outset, Dr. Duchin and
Mr. Cooper gave race a predominant role.

															The next step in the District Court’s
analysis was even more troubling. The court wrote, “Dr.
Duchin’s testimony that she considered two majority-Black
districts as ‘non- negotiable’ does not” show
that race played a predominant role in her districting process.
Id., at 1030. But if achieving a certain objective is
“non-negotiable,” then achieving that objective will
necessarily play a predominant role. Suppose that a couple are
relocating to the Washington, D. C., metropolitan area, and
suppose that one says to the other, “I’m flexible about
where we live, but it has to be in Maryland. That’s
non-negotiable.” Could anyone say that finding a home in
Maryland was not a “predominant” factor in the
couple’s search? Or suppose that a person looking for a
flight tells a travel agent, “It has to be non-stop.
That’s non-negotiable.” Could it be said that the
number of stops between the city of origin and the destination was
not a “predominant” factor in the search for a good
flight? The obvious answer to both these questions is no, and the
same is true about the role of race in the creation of a new
district. If it is “non-negotiable” that the district
be majority black, then race is given a predominant role.

															The District Court wrapped up this portion of
its opinion with a passage that highlighted its misunderstanding of
the first Gingles precondition. The court thought that a
§2 plaintiff cannot proffer a reasonably configured
majority-minority district without first attempting to see if it is
possible to create such a district—that is, by first making
the identification of such a district “non-negotiable.”
Ibid. But that is simply not so. A plaintiff ’s
expert can first create maps using only criteria that do not give
race a predominant role and then determine how many contain the
desired number of majority-minority districts.

															One final observation about the District
Court’s opinion is in order. The opinion gives substantial
weight to the disparity between the percentage of majority-black
House districts in the legislature’s plan (14%) and the
percentage of black voting-age Alabamians (27%), while the
percentage in the plaintiffs’ plan (29%) came closer to that
27% mark. See, e.g., id., at 946, 1016, 1018,
1025–1026; see also id., at 958–959, 969, 976,
982, 991–992, 996–997. Section 2 of the VRA, however,
states expressly that no group has a right to representation
“in numbers equal to their proportion in the
population.” 52 U. S. C. §10301(b). This
provision was a critical component of the compromise that led to
the adoption of the 1982 amendments, as the Court unanimously
agreed two Terms ago. See Brnovich, 594 U. S., at ___,
and n. 14 (slip op., at 22, and n. 14); id., at ___, n.
6 (Kagan, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 19, n. 6). The
District Court’s reasoning contravened this statutory
proviso. See ante, at 11–12, 28–30 (Thomas, J.,
dissenting).

															III

															The Court spends much of its opinion attacking
what it takes to be the argument that Alabama has advanced in this
litigation. I will not debate whether the Court’s
characterization of that argument is entirely correct, but as
applied to the analysis I have just set out, the Court’s
criticisms miss the mark.

															A

															The major theme of this part of the
Court’s opinion is that Alabama’s argument, in effect,
is that “Gingles must be overruled.”
Ante, at 25. But as I wrote at the beginning of this
opinion, I would decide these cases under the Gingles
framework. We should recognize, however, that the Gingles
framework is not the same thing as a statutory provision, and it is
a mistake to regard it as such. National Pork Producers
Council v. Ross, 598 U. S. ___, ___ (2023) (slip
op., at 9) (“[T]he language of an opinion is not always to be
parsed as though we were dealing with language of a statute”
(quoting Reiter v. Sonotone Corp., 442 U.S.
330, 341 (1979))). In applying that framework today, we should
keep in mind subsequent developments in our case law.

															One important development has been a sharpening
of the methodology used in interpreting statutes. Gingles
was decided at a time when the Court’s statutory
interpretation decisions sometimes paid less attention to the
actual text of the statute than to its legislative history, and
Gingles falls into that category. The Court quoted §2
but then moved briskly to the Senate Report. See 478 U. S., at
36–37, 43, and n. 7. Today, our statutory interpretation
decisions focus squarely on the statutory text. National Assn.
of Mfrs. v. Department of Defense, 583 U.S. 109, 127
(2018); Puerto Rico v. Franklin Cal. Tax-Free Trust,
579 U.S. 115, 125 (2016); cf. Brnovich, 594 U. S., at
___ (slip op., at 14). And as we held in Brnovich,
“[t]he key requirement” set out in the text of §2
is that a State’s electoral process must be
“ ‘equally open’ ” to members of
all racial groups. Id., at ___ (slip op., at 15). The
Gingles framework should be interpreted in a way that gives
effect to this standard.

															Another development that we should not ignore
concerns our case law on racial predominance. Post-Gingles
decisions like Miller, 515 U. S., at 920, Shaw
II, 517 U. S., at 906–907, and Vera, 517
U. S., at 979 (plurality opinion), made it clear that it is
unconstitutional to use race as a “predominant” factor
in legislative districting. “[W]hen statutory language is
susceptible of multiple interpretations, a court may shun an
interpretation that raises serious constitutional doubts and
instead may adopt an alternative that avoids those problems.”
Jennings v. Rodriguez, 583 U. S. ___, ___ (2018)
(slip op., at 2). This same principle logically applies with even
greater force when we interpret language in one of our prior
opinions. It therefore goes without question that we should apply
the Gingles framework in a way that does not set up a
confrontation between §2 and the Constitution, and
understanding the first Gingles precondition in the way I
have outlined achieves that result.[3]

															B

															The Court’s subsidiary criticisms of
Alabama’s arguments are likewise inapplicable to my analysis.
The Court suggests that the “centerpiece” of
Alabama’s argument regarding the role race can permissibly
play in a plaintiff ’s illustrative map seeks the
imposition of “a new rule.” Ante, at 15, 22. But
I would require only what our cases already demand: that all
legislative districts be produced without giving race a
“predominant” role.[4]

															The Court maintains that Alabama’s
benchmark scheme would be unworkable because of the huge number of
different race-neutral maps that could be drawn. As the Court
notes, there are apparently numerous “competing metrics on
the issue of compactness” alone, and each race-neutral
computer program may assign different values to each traditional
districting criterion. Ante, at 27 (internal quotation marks
omitted).

															My analysis does not create such problems. If a
§2 plaintiff chooses to use a computer program to create an
illustrative district, the court need ask only whether that
program assigned race a predominant role.

															The Court argues that Alabama’s focus on
race-neutral maps cannot be squared with a totality-of-the-
circumstances test because “Alabama suggests there is only
one ‘circumstance[ ]’ that matters—how the
State’s map stacks up relative to the benchmark” maps.
Ante, at 18. My analysis, however, simply follows the
Gingles framework, under which a court must first determine
whether a §2 plaintiff has satisfied three
“preconditions” before moving on to consider the
remainder of relevant circumstances. See Growe v.
Emison, 507 U.S.
25, 40–41 (1993) (unless plaintiffs establish all three
preconditions, there “neither has been a wrong nor can be a
remedy”).

															IV

															As noted, I would vacate and remand for the
District Court to apply the correct understanding of Gingles
in the first instance. Such a remand would require the District
Court to determine whether the plaintiffs have shown that their
illustrative maps did not give race a predominant role, and I will
therefore comment briefly on my understanding of the relevant
evidence in the record as it now stands.

															A

															In my view, there is strong evidence that race
played a predominant role in the production of the
plaintiffs’ illustrative maps and that it is most unlikely
that a map with more than one majority-black district could be
created without giving race such a role. An expert hired by the
Milligan plaintiffs, Dr. Kosuke Imai, used a computer
algorithm to create 30,000 potential maps, none of which contained
two majority-black districts. See 2 App. 571–572; Supp. App.
59, 72. In fact, in 20,000 of those simulations, Dr. Imai
intentionally created one majority-minority district, and yet even
with one majority-minority district guaranteed as a baseline, none
of those 20,000 attempts produced a second one. See 2 App.
571–572; Supp. App. 72.

															Similarly, Dr. Moon Duchin, another expert hired
by the Milligan plaintiffs, opined that “it is hard to
draw two majority-black districts by accident.” 2 App. 714.
Dr. Duchin also referred to a study where she generated two million
maps of potential district configurations in Alabama, none of which
contained a second majority-minority district. Id., at 710.
And the first team of trained mapmakers that plaintiff Milligan
consulted was literally unable to draw a
two-majority-black-district map, even when they tried. Id.,
at 511–512. Milligan concluded at the time that the feat was
impossible. Id., at 512.

															The majority quibbles about the strength of this
evidence, protesting that Dr. Imai’s studies failed to
include as controls certain redistricting criteria and that Dr.
Duchin’s two-million-map study was based on 2010 census data,
see ante, at 26–27, and nn. 6–7, but this is
unconvincing for several reasons. It is plaintiffs’ burden to
produce evidence and satisfy the Gingles preconditions, so
if their experts’ maps were deficient, that is no strike
against Alabama. And the racial demographics of the State changed
little between 2010 and 2020, Supp. App. 82, which is presumably
why Dr. Duchin herself raised the older study in answering
questions about her work in this litigation, see 2 App. 710. If it
was impossible to draw two such districts in 2010, it surely at
least requires a great deal of intentional effort now.

															The Court suggests that little can be inferred
from Dr. Duchin’s two-million-map study because two million
maps are not that many in comparison to the “trillion
trillion” maps that are possible. See ante, at
28–29, and n. 9. In making this argument, the Court relies
entirely on an amicus brief submitted by three computational
redistricting experts in support of the appellees. See Brief for
Computational Redistricting Experts 2, 6, n. 7. These
experts’ argument concerns a complicated statistical issue,
and I think it is unwise for the Court to make their argument part
of our case law based solely on this brief. By the time this
amicus brief was submitted, the appellants had already filed
their main brief, and it was too late for any experts with contrary
views to submit an amicus brief in support of appellants.
Computer simulations are widely used today to make predictions
about many important matters, and I would not place stringent
limits on their use in VRA litigation without being quite sure of
our ground. If the cases were remanded, the parties could take up
this issue if they wished and call experts to support their
positions on the extent to which the two million maps in the study
are or can be probative of the full universe of maps.

															In sum, based on my understanding of the current
record, I am doubtful that the plaintiffs could get by the first
Gingles precondition, but I would let the District Court
sort this matter out on remand.

															B

															Despite the strong evidence that two
majority-minority districts cannot be drawn without singular
emphasis on race, a plurality nonetheless concludes that race did
not predominate in the drawing of the plaintiffs’
illustrative maps. See ante, at 22–25. Their
conclusion, however, rests on a faulty view of what
non-predominance means.

															The plurality’s position seems to be that
race does not predominate in the creation of a districting map so
long as the map does not violate other traditional districting
criteria such as compactness, contiguity, equally populated
districts, minimizing county splits, etc. Ibid. But this
conclusion is irreconcilable with our cases. In Miller, for
instance, we acknowledged that the particular district at issue was
not “shape[d] . . . bizarre[ly] on its face,”
but we nonetheless held that race predominated because of the
legislature’s “overriding desire to assign black
populations” in a way that would create an additional
“majority-black district.” 515 U. S., at 917.

															Later cases drove home the point that conformity
with traditional districting principles does not necessarily mean
that a district was created without giving race a predominant role.
In Cooper, we held that once it was shown that race was
“ ‘the overriding reason’ ” for
the selection of a particular map, “a further showing of
‘inconsistency between the enacted plan and traditional
redistricting criteria’ is unnecessary to a finding of racial
predominance.” 581 U. S., at 301, n. 3 (quoting
Bethune-Hill, 580 U. S., at 190). We noted that the
contrary argument was “foreclosed almost as soon as it was
raised in this Court.” Cooper, 581 U. S., at 301,
n. 3; see also Vera, 517 U. S., at 966 (plurality
opinion) (race may still predominate even if “traditional
districting principle[s] do correlate to some extent with the
district’s layout”). “Traditional redistricting
principles . . . are numerous and malleable.
. . . By deploying those factors in various combinations
and permutations, a [mapmaker] could construct a plethora of
potential maps that look consistent with traditional, race-neutral
principles.” Bethune-Hill, 580 U. S., at 190.
Here, a plurality allows plaintiffs to do precisely what we warned
against in Bethune-Hill.

															The plurality’s analysis of predominance
contravenes our precedents in another way. We have been sensitive
to the gravity of
“ ‘trapp[ing]’ ” States
“ ‘between the competing hazards of
liability’ ” imposed by the Constitution and the
VRA. Id., at 196 (quoting Vera, 517 U. S., at
977). The VRA’s demand that States not unintentionally
“dilute” the votes of particular groups must be
reconciled with the Constitution’s demand that States
generally avoid intentional augmentation of the political power of
any one racial group (and thus the diminution of the power of other
groups). The plurality’s predominance analysis shreds that
prudential concern. If a private plaintiff can demonstrate §2
liability based on the production of a map that the State has every
reason to believe it could not constitutionally draw, we have left
“state legislatures too little breathing room” and
virtually guaranteed that they will be on the losing end of a
federal court’s judgment. Bethune-Hill, 580
U. S., at 196.

															*  *  *

															The Court’s treatment of Gingles
is inconsistent with the text of §2, our precedents on racial
predominance, and the fundamental principle that States are almost
always prohibited from basing decisions on race. Today’s
decision unnecessarily sets the VRA on a perilous and unfortunate
path. I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 Alabama’s
districting guidelines explicitly incorporate this non-predominance
requirement. See Singleton v. Merrill, 582
F. Supp. 3d 924, 1036 (ND Ala. 2022).
2
 Although our cases have
posited that racial predominance may be acceptable if strict
scrutiny is satisfied, the Court does not contend that it is
satisfied here.
3
 The second and third
Gingles preconditions, which concern racially polarized
voting, cannot contribute to avoiding a clash between §2 and
the Constitution over racial predominance in the drawing of lines.
Those preconditions do not concern the drawing of lines in
plaintiffs’ maps, and in any event, because voting in much of
the South is racially polarized, they are almost always satisfied
anyway. Alabama does not contest that they are satisfied
here.
4
 The Court appears to
contend that it does not matter if race predominated in the drawing
of these maps because the maps could have been drawn without
race predominating. See ante, at 26–27, n. 7. But
of course, many policies could be selected for race-neutral
reasons. They nonetheless must be assessed under the relevant
standard for intentional reliance on race if their imposition was
in fact motivated by race. See, e.g., Hunter v.
Underwood, 471 U.S.
222, 227–231 (1985); Arlington Heights v.
Metropolitan Housing Development Corp., 429 U.S.
252, 264–266 (1977); Washington v. Davis,
426 U.S.
229, 241–248 (1976).


