::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1449
::decision_name::  Glacier Northwest, Inc. v. International Brotherhood of Teamsters
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Jackson
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1449

															_________________

															GLACIER NORTHWEST, INC., dba CALPORTLAND,
PETITIONER v. INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS LOCAL
UNION NO. 174

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
washington

															[June 1, 2023]

															

															Justice Jackson, dissenting.

															The right to strike is fundamental to American
labor law. Congress enshrined that right in the National Labor
Relations Act (NLRA) and simultaneously established the National
Labor Relations Board to adjudicate disputes that arise between
workers and management. That decision reflected Congress’s
judgment that an agency with specialized expertise should develop
and enforce national labor law in a uniform manner, through
case-by-case adjudication. For its part, this Court has
scrupulously guarded the Board’s authority for more than half
a century. See San Diego Building Trades Council v.
Garmon, 359 U.S.
236 (1959). Under Garmon, and as relevant here, a court
presented with a tort suit based on strike conduct generally must
pause proceedings and permit the Board to determine in the first
instance whether the union’s conduct is lawful if the conduct
at issue is even “arguably” protected by the NLRA.
Id., at 245.

															Today, the Court falters. As the majority
acknowledges, the Board’s General Counsel has filed a
complaint with the Board after a thorough factual investigation,
and that complaint alleges that the NLRA protects the strike
conduct at the center of this state-court tort suit. The logical
implication of a General Counsel complaint under Garmon is
that the union’s conduct is at least arguably
protected by the NLRA. Consequently, where (as here) there is a
General Counsel complaint pending before the Board,
courts—including this Court—should suspend their
examination. Garmon makes clear that we have no business
delving into this particular labor dispute at this time.

															But instead of modestly standing down, the
majority eagerly inserts itself into this conflict, proceeding to
opine on the propriety of the union’s strike activity based
on the facts alleged in the employer’s state-court complaint.
As part of this mistaken expedition, the majority tries its own
hand at applying the Board’s decisions to a relatively novel
scenario that poses difficult line-drawing
questions—fact-sensitive issues that Congress plainly
intended for the Board to address after an investigation. And in
the course of inappropriately weighing in on the merits of those
questions at this stage, the majority also misapplies the
Board’s cases in a manner that threatens to both impede the
Board’s uniform development of labor law and erode the right
to strike.

															In my view, today’s misguided foray
underscores the wisdom of Congress’s decision to create an
agency that is uniquely positioned to evaluate the facts and apply
the law in cases such as this one. This case is Exhibit A as to why
the Board—and not the courts—should ordinarily take the
first crack at resolving contentious, fact-bound labor disputes of
this nature. Because the majority’s ruling suggests
otherwise, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															The majority’s brief opinion quotes
Garmon’s “arguably protected” test and
endeavors to apply it. Ante, at 3–4, 6–11. But
the opinion devotes relatively little space to the origins and
purpose of that longstanding precedent. That omission is telling. A
proper understanding of Garmon’s foundation sheds
considerable light on the majority’s sequential missteps in
this case.

															A

															Congress’s passage of the NLRA
“marked a fundamental change in the Nation’s labor
policies.” Sears, Roebuck & Co. v.
Carpenters, 436 U.S.
180, 190 (1978). Prior to that point, union activity had been
viewed as “a species of
‘conspiracy,’ ” prompting substantial
conflict between labor and management. Ibid. With the
enactment of the NLRA in 1935, “Congress expressly recognized
that collective organization of segments of the labor force into
bargaining units capable of exercising economic power comparable to
that possessed by employers may produce benefits for the entire
economy in the form of higher wages, job security, and improved
working conditions.” Ibid.

															The heart of the NLRA is §7, which
safeguards workers’ rights “to self-organization, to
form, join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively
through representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in
other concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining
or other mutual aid or protection.” 29 U. S. C.
§157. Among the “ ‘concerted
activities’ ” that the Act unquestionably protects
is “the vital, economic instrumen[t] of the strike.”
Garmon, 359 U. S., at 241; see §163.

															Section 8 of the NLRA provides a list of
“unfair labor practice[s]” that employers and unions
are prohibited from engaging in. §158. For example, it is an
unfair labor practice for an employer to “interfere with,
restrain, or coerce employees in the exercise of ” their
§7 rights, including the right to strike. §158(a)(1). And
it is an unfair labor practice for a union to “refuse to
bargain collectively with an employer.” §158(b)(3).
Taken together, §7 and §8 establish certain conduct that
Congress has deemed protected (§7) and prohibited
(§8).

															B

															Congress could have stopped there. But
“Congress did not merely lay down a substantive rule of law
to be enforced by any tribunal competent to apply law generally to
the parties.” Garner v. Teamsters, 346 U.S.
485, 490 (1953). Rather, Congress “went on to confide
primary interpretation and application of its rules to a specific
and specially constituted tribunal”Ibid.; see
generally §§153–156.

															By statutory mandate, the Board is composed of
five members who are appointed by the President with the advice and
consent of the Senate. §153(a). Congress also provided for an
independent General Counsel, who is likewise presidentially
appointed and Senate confirmed. §153(d); see NLRB v.
Food & Commercial Workers, 484 U.S.
112, 117–118 (1987). The General Counsel conducts
investigations into unfair labor practices and brings complaints
before the Board through a “particular procedure” that
Congress has prescribed “for investigation, complaint and
notice, and hearing and decision, including judicial relief pending
a final administrative order” from the Board. Garner,
346 U. S., at 490; see §§153, 160.

															The Board has fleshed out this process via
rulemaking authority that Congress has delegated. §156. If a
person believes that an employer or union has committed an unfair
labor practice, the person may file a charge with a regional
director, who acts on behalf of the General Counsel. 29 CFR
§101.2 (2022). The regional director investigates the charge.
§101.4. If “the charge appears to have merit and efforts
to dispose of it by informal adjustment are unsuccessful,”
the regional director issues a complaint on behalf of the General
Counsel. §101.8. When a General Counsel’s complaint
issues, an administrative law judge (ALJ) holds a hearing and
issues a decision, which the Board reviews if any party files an
exception. §§101.8–101.12. If the Board finds that
a party has engaged in an unfair labor practice, it must order the
party to “cease and desist” and to take “such
affirmative action . . . as will effectuate the
policies” of the NLRA. 29 U. S. C.
§160(c).

															C

															The history and structure of the NLRA make
clear that Congress “entrusted administration of the labor
policy for the Nation to a centralized administrative
agency”—the Board—“armed with its own
procedures, and equipped with its specialized knowledge and
cumulative experience.” Garmon, 359 U. S., at
242. Congress thought the Board’s primary role was
“necessary to obtain uniform application of [the
NLRA’s] substantive rules and to avoid th[e] diversities and
conflicts likely to result from a variety of local procedures and
attitudes toward labor controversies.” Garner, 346
U. S., at 490. That judgment makes perfect sense. The
NLRA’s substantive principles are intrinsically broad and
potentially conflicting, leaving much for future articulation
through case-by-case adjudication. Drawing the line between
activities that constitute a protected strike, on the one hand, and
unprotected actions for which employers may validly discipline
employees, on the other, is a legally and factually complex task.
Moreover, that task implicates important economic policy
considerations about the relative bargaining power of labor and
management that affect not only the parties to a particular labor
dispute but also our broader national economy.

															To effect Congress’s intent, this Court
has consistently recognized that “courts are not primary
tribunals to adjudicate [these] issues.” Garmon, 359
U. S., at 244. Rather, “it is to the Board that Congress
entrusted the task of applying the Act’s general
. . . language in the light of the infinite combinations
of events which might be charged as violative of its terms.”
Beth Israel Hospital v. NLRB, 437
U.S. 483, 500–501 (1978) (internal quotation marks
omitted). And the Board, “if it is to accomplish the task
which Congress set for it, necessarily must have authority
. . . to fill the interstices of the broad statutory
provisions.” Id., at 501. So, while the Board’s
decision “is not the last word” on these complex
matters—given that its decisions are subject to review in
federal court—“it must assuredly be the
first.” Marine Engineers v. Interlake S. S.
Co., 370 U.S.
173, 185 (1962) (emphasis added).

															For that reason, this Court has long held that
courts presented with claims arising out of a labor dispute must
sometimes pause their proceedings to permit the Board to consider
the dispute in the first instance. As relevant here, we have held
that if §7—including its protection of the right to
strike—“arguably” protects the conduct at issue
in a state-court suit, then the court must await the Board’s
word as to whether the conduct is, in fact, protected.
Garmon, 359 U. S., at 245.

															To determine whether conduct is “arguably
protected,” a state court examines the showing of the party
invoking Garmon and seeking to pause the litigation. The
court asks whether that party has (1) “advance[d] an
interpretation of the [NLRA] that is not plainly contrary to its
language and that has not been ‘authoritatively
rejected’ by the courts or the Board,” and (2)
“put forth enough evidence to enable the court to find that
the Board reasonably could uphold a claim based on such an
interpretation.” Longshoremen v. Davis,
476 U.S.
380, 395 (1986). If so, the state court must pause proceedings
to allow the Board to consider the complex legal and factual
contours of the question whether the union’s conduct is
actually protected by the NLRA.

															The majority refers to this as
“Garmon preemption,” in keeping with historical
practice. Ante, at 3. But the term “preemption”
is something of a misnomer. Rather than entirely and automatically
precluding the state-court suit, the rule instead requires state
courts to take a “jurisdictional hiatus” while the
Board considers the dispute in the first instance. Sears,
Roebuck & Co., 436 U. S., at 203. If the Board
determines (subject to judicial review) that §7 protects the
union’s conduct, normal conflict preemption kicks in: A state
court may not hold a union liable on state-law claims for conduct
that is protected by the NLRA. See Brown v. Hotel
Employees, 468 U.S.
491, 503 (1984). But “if the Board decides that the
conduct is not protected,” the state court may proceed to
“entertain the litigation.” Davis, 476
U. S., at 397.[1]

															With these general principles in mind, I now
turn to the particulars of this case.

															II

															This suit arises out of a union-organized
strike. Petitioner Glacier Northwest is a concrete-delivery
company, and respondent International Brotherhood of Teamsters
Local Union No. 174 (Union) represents Glacier’s
concrete-delivery truckdrivers. After the drivers went on strike,
Glacier sent disciplinary letters to some of the drivers. The Union
filed an unfair labor practice charge with the Board, alleging that
the disciplinary letters were unlawful retaliation against the
drivers for engaging in strike conduct that is protected by the
NLRA.

															Glacier then filed a complaint in Washington
state court, alleging that the Union engaged in tortious conduct
when it instructed the drivers to strike at a time when there was
wet concrete in some of the company’s delivery trucks. In
response, the Union filed another Board charge, maintaining that
Glacier’s lawsuit constituted additional unlawful
retaliation.

															With respect to Glacier’s tort suit, the
Washington courts engaged in the standard Garmon inquiry,
ultimately resulting in a determination by the Washington Supreme
Court that the lawsuit could not proceed because the Union’s
strike conduct was arguably protected by the NLRA. Glacier sought,
and we granted, certiorari to review that decision. Notably,
however, after the Washington Supreme Court issued its decision,
the regional director acting on behalf of the Board’s General
Counsel filed an administrative complaint against Glacier. In my
view, for the reasons explained below, that subsequent event has
greatly simplified the Garmon question.

															A

															The filing of the General Counsel’s
administrative complaint necessarily suffices to establish that the
Union’s strike conduct is “arguably protected”
within the meaning of Garmon. Thus, the General
Counsel’s complaint should have marked the end of any court
involvement in this matter at this time.

															The General Counsel’s complaint alleges
that Glacier interfered with strike conduct protected by §7
when it disciplined its drivers for walking off the job and when it
filed this tort suit. That complaint represents the General
Counsel’s conclusion—reached after an extensive
independent investigation involving collecting testimony and other
evidence, and after careful consideration of the competing legal
principles and policy concerns—that the Union’s claim
that its strike conduct was protected “appears to have
merit.” 29 CFR §§101.4, 101.8. One “cannot
credibly contend that a claim that makes it through this gauntlet
does not concern conduct ‘arguably’ protected by the
NLRA.” Davis Supermarkets, Inc. v. NLRB,

2 F.3d 1162, 1179 (CADC 1993); accord, Makro, Inc., 305
N. L. R. B. 663, 670 (1991).

															A court presented with a General Counsel
complaint should therefore find Garmon inherently satisfied.
This is so because the entire point of Garmon’s
arguably-protected test is to permit the court to assess the facts
and relevant labor law in service of a gatekeeping function.
The answer to the Garmon question simply (and solely)
establishes whether the court can continue to entertain a lawsuit
that relates to the challenged strike conduct, or whether the legal
action must be suspended to allow the Board to make an initial
assessment of the matter. The court evaluates the existing evidence
and the law for a specific reason: to determine whether the lawsuit
attacks arguably-protected conduct such that entertaining the legal
action will interfere with the Board’s prerogative to develop
the facts and adjudicate the merits of the dispute as part of the
Board’s broader authority to develop national labor law.

															If the General Counsel investigates the matter
and files a complaint with the Board alleging that the
union’s conduct is protected, it becomes indisputable that
the pending legal action might interfere with the Board’s
authority. Thus, a General Counsel complaint relieves the court of
the burden of having to make the arguably-protected assessment
based on its own understanding of the evidence and labor
law—it is “arguable” that the union’s
conduct is protected because the General Counsel is arguing just
that. To be sure, we have said that the arguably-protected test is
“not without substance” and is “not satisfied by
a conclusory assertion of pre-emption.” Davis, 476
U. S., at 394. But an allegation from the Board’s
General Counsel after a thorough investigation is a far cry from a
“conclusory assertion” of protection.[2]

															What is more, by virtue of the General
Counsel’s complaint, the Board is, at this very moment,
exercising its authority to adjudicate the merits of this dispute.
On January 12, 2023, an ALJ denied Glacier’s motion to
postpone the ALJ hearing on the General Counsel’s complaint
pending this Court’s decision in this case. As the ALJ
explained, the General Counsel’s pleading “constituted
a determination that the strikers’ conduct was at least
arguably protected by [the NLRA] and that this agency became the
exclusive forum for adjudicating whether the strikers’
conduct was protected.”[3] A nine-day hearing ensued, and the parties completed
posthearing briefing last week. We have said that “the need
for protecting the exclusivity of [the Board’s] jurisdiction
is obviously greatest when the precise issue brought before a court
is in the process of litigation through procedures originating in
the Board.” Marine Engineers, 370 U. S., at 185.
That is exactly the situation here.

															For these reasons, I believe that the filing of
the General Counsel’s complaint is more than sufficient to
trigger Garmon’s pause, and that it must be so if
consistency with Congress’s intent to give the Board primary
authority to interpret and enforce the NLRA is to be maintained. In
circumstances like these, “the States as well as the federal
courts must defer to the exclusive competence of the National Labor
Relations Board.” Garmon, 359 U. S., at 245.

															And this Court is no exception. Because the
General Counsel has now filed a complaint with the Board concerning
the labor dispute at issue in this case, all courts—including
this one—should stand down.

															B

															The majority does not take issue with my
conclusion that the General Counsel’s complaint triggers a
Garmon hiatus; instead, it takes no position on the matter,
leaving the question open for the Washington courts to decide on
remand. Ante, at 11, n. 3.

															The majority’s reason for declining to
address this argument is noteworthy. It explains that, because the
General Counsel’s complaint was filed after the Washington
Supreme Court had affirmed the dismissal of Glacier’s
complaint on Garmon grounds, “[t]he lower courts have
not addressed the significance, if any, of the Board’s
complaint with respect to Garmon preemption.”
Ante, at 11, n. 3. And since we are
“ ‘a court of review, not of first
view,’ ” ibid. (quoting Cutter v.
Wilkinson, 544 U.S.
709, 718, n. 7 (2005)), the majority declines to “do
so in the first instance.” Ante, at 11,
n. 3.

															This rationale is inconsistent with the broader
approach that the majority takes in this case. It would be one
thing if the Court simply noted the filing of the General
Counsel’s complaint and authorized the lower courts to
evaluate the impact of that complaint on the Garmon question
in the first instance. But it goes further: The majority also
inserts itself into the midst of this labor dispute now
(despite the General Counsel’s complaint), proceeding to
apply the Board’s cases to novel and difficult line-drawing
questions and ultimately concluding that the strike conduct alleged
in Glacier’s complaint is not even arguably protected.

															The majority cannot have it both ways. A concern
about the Court’s institutional role justifies, at most,
vacating the judgment below and remanding for the lower court to
consider the import of the General Counsel’s complaint. The
same observation that compels the majority to allow for such
lower-court consideration—that we are “ ‘a
court of review, not of first view,’ ”
ante, at 11, n. 3—should have likewise led it to
decline to intrude into this labor dispute while it is pending
before the Board.

															III

															For the reasons discussed above, I would have
vacated the Washington Supreme Court’s judgment and remanded
with directions to stay proceedings or dismiss Glacier’s
complaint without prejudice, on the straightforward ground that the
General Counsel’s complaint triggers the jurisdictional
hiatus that Garmon requires.[4]

															The majority sidesteps my preferred resolution
of this matter and instead proceeds to engage in
Garmon’s “arguably protected” test by
applying a series of fact-intensive Board decisions to the bare
allegations in Glacier’s state-court complaint. To do this,
the majority invokes the Board’s “reasonable
precautions” principle. Ante, at 6–8. That
principle (discussed in Part IV, infra) is derived from the
Board’s determination that striking workers must take
reasonable precautions to protect persons, the employer’s
premises, and its equipment from foreseeable, aggravated, and
imminent harm due to the sudden cessation of work. The majority has
taken it upon itself to apply the Board’s
reasonable-precautions principle to the factual allegations about
the Union’s conduct that Glacier alleges in this lawsuit, and
it thereby concludes that the drivers’ conduct is not even
arguably protected by the NLRA.

															This course of action (which is already
confounding given that the Board itself is currently considering
the challenged strike conduct with the benefit of developed facts
and labor law expertise) reflects an analytical approach to the
issues presented that cannot be squared with Garmon.

															A

															Whether the NLRA protects particular strike
conduct often turns on subtle factual disputes and nuanced legal
distinctions. Here, for example, whether the Union’s strike
conduct is protected or unprotected might well depend on whether
the drivers left the concrete-delivery trucks’ revolving
drums turning when they walked off the job. So, too, might it
depend on fine legal gradations concerning how imminent or how
aggravated the risk of harm must be to trigger the duty to take
reasonable precautions. These kinds of determinations cry out for
evidentiary hearings, and in this highly fact-sensitive area of the
law, which generally develops on a case-by-case basis, the scope of
NLRA protection in a given set of circumstances is typically
determined once the facts have been established—through
discovery, debate, and sometimes the tedious work of making
contentious credibility determinations.

															Fortunately, in this regard, Congress has gifted
our legal system with an expert agency that thoroughly investigates
what happened—i.e., the facts of strike-related labor
disputes—and then engages in the initial task of answering
the sometimes complex, always fact-bound question whether the NLRA
protects the strike conduct at issue. Meanwhile, a court that is
undertaking Garmon’s arguably-protected analysis is
engaged in a fundamentally different inquiry. As explained in Part
II–A, supra, while the court is most certainly
considering strike conduct arising from a labor dispute, it is not
meant to address the merits of these complex questions. Under the
NLRA and Garmon, courts must take as a given that the Board
is the entity to which Congress has assigned responsibility for
initially determining what happened and taking the first crack at
deciding whether the NLRA protects the union’s conduct. And
far from usurping that Board function, Garmon tasks the
court with merely conducting a threshold, gatekeeping assessment of
whether the lawsuit before it must be paused, or whether the suit
can proceed because it is not even arguable that the conduct
at issue in the lawsuit is protected by the NLRA.

															To avoid veering into the Board’s assigned
territory, it is crucial that the courts have a clear understanding
of the nature of the Garmon assessment and what it requires.
The court asks, first of all, whether the party invoking
Garmon has “advance[d] an interpretation of the [NLRA]
that is not plainly contrary to its language and that has not been
‘authoritatively rejected’ by the courts or the
Board.” Davis, 476 U. S., at 395. This inquiry
involves merely comparing the union’s claim about the scope
of its protection to the broad protective language of the statute
and deciding whether the union’s interpretation has already
been definitively rejected either by courts or by the Board.

															The second task is to determine whether the
party invoking Garmon has “put forth enough evidence
to enable the court to find that the Board reasonably could uphold
a claim based on such an interpretation.” Davis, 476
U. S., at 395. Again, this is not an invitation to
supplant the Board’s factfinding role or to usurp the
authority that Congress has given the Board to make the initial
underlying protected-or-unprotected determination. Rather, the
point of this part of the Garmon assessment is simply to
determine whether it is arguable that the Board—in the
exercise of its discretion to develop labor law and aided by its
investigation into the facts—could conclude that the strike
conduct at issue is protected by the NLRA. See 359 U. S., at
245.

															Thus, consistent with a statutory scheme that
gives primacy to the agency’s expertise, a court’s task
under Garmon is unmistakably modest. It must merely assess
whether, in light of existing law and the evidence that has been
amassed related to this strike, it is possible that the
union could prevail before the Board. Put another way, instead of
stepping into the Board’s shoes as primary factfinder, or
even prognosticating about what the Board is likely to decide
concerning the extent of NLRA coverage, a court that stands down
upon a proper Garmon analysis has simply determined (1) that
existing law does not plainly and authoritatively prohibit the
strike conduct at issue, and (2) that evidence exists concerning
how the strike was conducted that might ultimately favor the union,
such that the lawsuit should pause to allow the Board to gather the
facts and apply its expertise to determine whether the strike was
lawful.

															B

															The majority seems to misunderstand all this
in the context of this case. It correctly concludes that the Union
has carried its burden of “advancing an interpretation of the
[NLRA] that is not plainly contrary to its language and that has
not been authoritatively rejected by the courts or the
Board.” Ante, at 6 (internal quotation marks omitted).
But it finds that the Union has failed to satisfy the second
Garmon step, and it does so after undertaking its own
assessment of the facts alleged in Glacier’s complaint and
endeavoring to apply the Board’s fact-bound
reasonable-precautions precedents. See, e.g., ante,
at 7 (determining, based on alleged facts, that “[t]he
drivers engaged in a sudden cessation of work that put
Glacier’s property in foreseeable and imminent danger”
and that the risk of harm to the concrete-delivery trucks was
“both foreseeable and serious”); ibid.
(concluding that “[t]he Union failed to ‘take
reasonable precautions,’ ” after hypothesizing
various steps that, according to the majority, the Union should
have taken but did not).

															Given what I have already said about
Garmon’s purpose and what it calls for, the
majority’s error in proceeding in this fashion is obvious. To
my mind, if a court that is evaluating what to do per Garmon
finds itself weighing in on such fact-bound matters as whether the
strike posed a risk of harm that was aggravated enough or imminent
enough to remove NLRA protection, or starts contemplating whether
the precautions that the striking employees took to address any
such risk were reasonable enough to allow them to retain the right
to strike, it has unwittingly wandered into a domain that Congress
intentionally assigned to the Board to address in the first
instance.[5]

															It is clear to me that Congress plainly intended
for the Board’s factfinding function to be at the forefront
of this kind of legal evaluation. Thus, in my view, when a court
undertakes the Garmon analysis in a context such as this
one, it should take care to limit itself to its own assigned
responsibility: the mere determination of whether, given the
union’s evidence and legal interpretation, the Board
could possibly conclude that the union had taken reasonable
precautions. If yes, the court should suspend the pending legal
action to let the Board decide the question. To conclude no, given
the fact-bound nature of the reasonable-precautions analysis, a
court in all but the most exceptional circumstances will need to be
able to point to a reasonable-precautions case from the Board that
is on all fours with the facts of the case before it and that found
the conduct unprotected. In that circumstance, the court can
proceed with the suit, without breaking new legal ground on the
scope of the right to strike.

															In all events, then, courts can properly decide
the Garmon issue without making law in this area, precisely
as Congress intended. Indeed, I think we best respect congressional
intent regarding the Board’s authority to develop uniform
labor law by leaving the application of the Board’s
reasonable-precautions principle to the Board itself. The
majority’s contrary approach opens up the possibility that
courts around the country will now act on bare allegations to
generate conflicting results about the contours of the venerated
right to strike, which, ironically, was the primary concern that
motivated Congress to create the Board in the first place.

															IV

															For what it’s worth, even if the
majority’s approach to deciding the Garmon question
were the correct one, the majority misapplies the
reasonable-precautions principle to the allegations here in a
manner that threatens to impinge on the right to strike and on the
orderly development of labor law.

															A

															1

															A strike, by definition, is a “concerted
stoppage of work by employees,” or “any concerted
slowdown or other concerted interruption of operations by
employees.” §142(2). When employees stop working,
production may halt, deliveries may be delayed, and services may be
canceled. At the risk of stating the obvious, this means that the
workers’ right to strike inherently includes the right to
impose economic harm on their employer.

															Congress was well aware that organized
labor’s exercise of the right to strike risks harm to an
employer’s economic interests. See §151; NLRB v.
Erie Resistor Corp., 373 U.S.
221, 234 (1963) (Congress’s protection of the right to
strike reflects its understanding that strikes are authorized
“economic weapon[s]”). Yet, Congress protected that
right anyway. In fact, the threat of economic harm posed by the
right to strike is a feature, not a bug, of the NLRA. The potential
pain of a work stoppage is a powerful tool, and one that
unquestionably advances Congress’s codified goal of achieving
“equality of bargaining power between employers and
employees.” §151. Unions leverage a
strike’s economic harm (or the threat of it) into bargaining
power, and then wield that power to demand improvement of
employees’ wages and working conditions—goals that,
according to Congress, benefit the economy writ large. See
Sears, Roebuck & Co., 436 U. S., at 190.

															Still, the right to strike is, of course, not
unlimited. But when “Congress chose to qualify the use of the
strike, it did so by prescribing the limits and conditions of the
abridgment in exacting detail.” Erie Resistor, 373
U. S., at 234. Section 8 enumerates several limitations. For
example, a union must notify an employer that it intends to
terminate or modify its contract—and thus that a strike is
possible—at least 60 days before striking. §158(d). A
union cannot strike for unlawful purposes, such as putting economic
pressure on parties other than the primary employer.
§158(b)(4)(i)(B). And, in certain healthcare settings, unions
must provide at least 10 days’ notice of the precise date and
time of a strike. §158(g).

															Additionally, §163 of the NLRA (which
Congress added via the 1947 Taft-Hartley Amendments, 61Stat. 151)
states that “nothing in this subchapter, except as
specifically provided for herein, shall be construed so as either
to interfere with or impede or diminish in any way the right to
strike, or to affect the limitations or qualifications on that
right.”

															Thus, the text of the NLRA allows for only two
kinds of limitations on the right to strike: those enumerated in
the Act itself, and the “limitations or qualifications”
on the right that existed when the Taft-Hartley Amendments were
enacted. See NLRB v. Drivers, 362
U.S. 274, 281–282 (1960). The only relevant limitation
here is the one set out in NLRB v. Fansteel Metallurgical
Corp., 306 U.S.
240 (1939).[6]

															Our Fansteel decision stands for the
principle that “employees ha[ve] the right to strike but they
ha[ve] no license to commit acts of violence or to seize their
employer’s plant.” Id., at 253. The facts of
that case involved 95 striking employees who effected a
“sit-down strike by taking over and holding two of [their
employer’s] key buildings.” Id., at 248
(internal quotation marks omitted). The employees subsequently
engaged in “a pitched battle” in which they
“resisted the attempt by the sheriff to evict and arrest
them.” Id., at 249. We held that the NLRA did not
condone this conduct, which would “put a premium on resort to
force” and would “subvert the principles of law and
order which lie at the foundations of society.” Id.,
at 253.

															Congress’s incorporation of
Fansteel’s limitation into the NLRA establishes that,
while employees have the right to withhold their labor peaceably,
subsequent affirmative acts of violence, or seizure of an
employer’s premises, are not protected labor practices.

															2

															As a general matter, the dispute in this case
is over whether employees can withhold their labor if doing so
risks damage to their employer’s property. As explained
above, by carefully restricting limitations on the right to strike
in the NLRA itself, Congress has indicated that the act of
peacefully walking off the job is protected strike conduct even if
economic harm incidentally results. What is not protected is
any subsequent affirmative step to destroy or seize the
employer’s property. This is the statutory backdrop against
which the Board has developed the narrow requirement that striking
employees must take reasonable precautions before or when they
strike in order to forestall or address foreseeable, imminent, and
aggravated injury to persons, premises, and equipment that might
otherwise be caused by their sudden cessation of work.

															The Board first applied this “reasonable
precautions” principle to rank-and-file employees in
Marshall Car Wheel & Foundry Co., Inc., 107
N. L. R. B. 314, 315 (1953), enf. denied on other
grounds, 218 F.2d 409 (CA5 1955). There, employees at a foundry
walked off the job at a time when the foundry’s furnace was
full of hot molten iron, threatening severe damage to the
employer’s plant and equipment. 107
N. L. R. B., at 315. The Board concluded that the
employees’ strike conduct was not protected by the NLRA,
because the employees had a “duty to take reasonable
precautions to protect the employer’s physical plant from
such imminent damage as for[e]seeably would result from their
sudden cessation of work.” Ibid.

															The Board has also applied this principle in
other similar cases. It determined, for example, that strikers who
walked out of a certain kind of chemical plant—a plant that
handled “extremely hazardous” chemicals that were
“a hazard not only to employees but also to individuals
living in the vicinity”—without shutting down the
equipment had engaged in unprotected conduct. General Chemical
Corp., 290 N. L. R. B. 76, 77, 83 (1988).
Similarly, the Board held that the strike conduct of security
guards whose walkout exposed a federal building’s occupants
to “imminent” danger was not protected by the NLRA.
International Protective Servs., Inc., 339
N. L. R. B. 701, 703 (2003).

															But the narrow duty that Marshall Car
Wheel and its progeny impose does not—and
cannot—displace the general rule that labor strikes are
protected even when the workers’ withdrawal of their labor
inflicts economic harm on the employer. So the Board has also
repeatedly held that employees have no duty to prevent the loss of
perishable goods caused by their sudden cessation of work.

															In a leading case, employees at a raw poultry
plant decided to walk out at 8 a.m. “because by that time all
employees would have reported to work and [the employer] would be
in full operation with its largest number of chickens on the
line.” Lumbee Farms Co-op., 285
N. L. R. B. 497, 503 (1987). The Board affirmed the
ALJ’s reasoning that “[t]he fact that the strike
occurred during the workday when chickens were on the line and
vulnerable to loss does not mean employees automatically lost
protection under the Act,” because “[s]trikers are not
required under the Act to institute the strike at a specific time
of day.” Id., at 506. Indeed, it is
“[n]orma[l]” for “planned employee strikes [to
be] timed to ensure the greatest impact on an employer.”
Ibid.

															The Board has applied this same reasoning in
cases involving, for example, cheese and milk. See Leprino
Cheese Co., 170 N. L. R. B. 601, 605 (1968);
Central Okla. Milk Producers Assn., 125
N. L. R. B. 419, 435 (1959). In those cases, the
Board also explained that the reasonable-precautions principle is
“limited to situations involving a danger of
‘aggravated’ injury to persons or
premises”—a danger “[o]bviously” not posed
by the loss of, for example, cheese. Leprino Cheese, 170
N. L. R. B., at 607 (emphasis added). The Board has
consistently reiterated that “[l]oss is not uncommon when a
strike occurs.” Central Okla. Milk Producers, 125
N. L. R. B., at 435.

															In short, it is indisputable that workers have a
statutory right to strike despite the fact that exercising that
right risks economic harm to employers. Congress has, in effect,
drawn a line between those economic harms that are inherent in the
act of peacefully walking off the job (which do not render the
strike unprotected), and those that result from workers taking
subsequent affirmative steps to seize the employer’s premises
or engage in acts of violence (strike conduct that is not protected
by the NLRA). The Board has further recognized a narrow duty that
arises if a sudden cessation of work risks foreseeable, imminent,
and aggravated harm to persons, premises, or equipment. Beyond this
narrow reasonable-precautions requirement, however, employees have
no obligation to protect their employer’s economic interests
when they exercise the right to withhold their labor.

															B

															Glacier does not allege that the cement
truckdrivers committed acts of violence or seized its plant or
property as part of the strike the Union orchestrated. Instead, the
thrust of its complaint is that the Union was aware of “the
perishable nature of batched concrete,” App. 9, and that the
drivers’ walkout was intentionally timed so as to risk harm
to that product. See id., at 10 (alleging “sabotage,
ruination and destruction of Glacier’s batched
concrete”).

															I agree with the majority that the risk of
losing the batched concrete alone would not be sufficient to divest
the striking drivers of statutory protection. As Glacier
acknowledges, wet concrete is a perishable good. Ibid. And
the Board has repeatedly reaffirmed that the loss of such
perishable goods due to a mere work stoppage does not render a
strike unprotected.

															There is also no duty to take reasonable
precautions to prevent this kind of economic loss,
which—standing alone—posed no risk to persons,
premises, or equipment, let alone a risk of aggravated harm. While
it seems that the drivers were in a position to save the batched
concrete that was inside their trucks when the strike was called
(by, for instance, continuing to deliver it to the intended
customers), that is beside the point. Employees have a protected
right to withhold their labor. And it would undercut that right if
they could be held liable for the incidental loss of the perishable
goods (which includes concrete no less than raw poultry, cheese, or
milk) that they tend to as part of their job.[7]

															Where I disagree with the majority is the
conclusion it draws from the fact that the batched concrete also
risked harm to the drivers’ trucks, at least as alleged in
Glacier’s complaint. The majority repeatedly ties the loss of
the concrete—in particular, the risk that it would harden in
the trucks—to the alleged risk of harm to the delivery trucks
themselves.[8] But, to me, the
alleged risk of harm to Glacier’s trucks involves a
relatively complex factual analysis under the Board’s
reasonable-precautions principle.

															Glacier alleges that, “[o]nce at rest,
concrete begins hardening immediately, and depending on the mix can
begin to set within 20 to 30 minutes.” Id., at 8. Its
complaint also asserts that “[i]f batched concrete remains in
the revolving drum of the ready-mix truck beyond its useful life
span, the batched concrete is certain or substantially certain to
harden in the revolving drum and cause significant damage to the
concrete ready-mix truck.” Id., at 9. But
Glacier’s own submissions in Washington state court suggest
that the Union instructed the drivers to return their trucks to
Glacier’s yard after the strike began and to keep the
ready-mix trucks running. See id., at 34, 77.
Glacier’s submissions also suggest that those precautions
actually provided the company’s managers and nonstriking
employees with sufficient time to decide how to address the
situation to prevent any harm to the trucks. See id., at 13,
72, 77, 82–83.

															Was any risk of harm to the trucks here
“imminent,” given the allegation that the Union
instructed the drivers to keep the trucks running? Is the risk of
concrete hardening in a delivery truck “aggravated,” in
the way Marshall Car Wheel contemplates? Was returning the
trucks to the employer’s premises and leaving them running a
sufficient “reasonable” precaution, because it gave the
employer sufficient time to address any risk of harm? Making the
call about whether the NLRA protects the Union’s conduct
raises these questions and others. Importantly, these kinds of
questions not only involve making nuanced factual distinctions but
also demonstrate that applying the Board’s
reasonable-precautions precedents is, at bottom, a line-drawing
exercise. Under circumstances like these, a court can confidently
declare that a union’s conduct is not even arguably protected
for Garmon purposes only where the allegations make out a
clear Fansteel claim or where the alleged facts implicate a
reasonable-precautions case that is directly on point. Because
neither is true here, the Court should have concluded that the
Union’s conduct was at least arguably protected.

															Even if the Court’s task under
Garmon were to apply the Board’s
reasonable-precautions principle to the allegations of
Glacier’s complaint and decide whether or not the Union
engaged in unprotected conduct (to reiterate: that is not the
assignment, see Part III–A, supra), I cannot agree
with the majority’s conclusion that the risk to the trucks
rendered the drivers’ strike unprotected by the NLRA.
Instead, I would have credited Glacier’s own account, and
thus would have concluded that the Union took reasonable
precautions when it instructed the drivers to return the trucks and
leave them running to avoid the concrete hardening imminently in
the drums. The majority reaches the opposite conclusion by giving
far too little weight to the allegation that the drivers returned
the trucks, and also by substantially discounting the allegations
that support the Union’s claim that the drivers left their
trucks and revolving drums running. See ante, at 11.

															Fortunately, the pending Board determination of
what actually happened in connection with this particular strike
will establish—as a matter of fact and not mere
allegation—what precautions (if any) the drivers actually
took and what harm (if any) the Union’s conduct actually
posed to Glacier’s trucks.[9] But our different takes on these allegations only
underscore the potential for variable outcomes when courts apply
the Board’s fact-dependent principles to bare assertions.

															To the extent that the majority’s
conclusion rests on the alleged fact that “by reporting for
duty and pretending as if they would deliver the concrete, the
drivers prompted the creation of the perishable
product” that “put Glacier’s trucks in
harm’s way,” ante, at 10, I see nothing
aggravated or even untoward about that conduct. Glacier is a
concrete-delivery company whose drivers are responsible for
delivering wet concrete, so it is unremarkable that the drivers
struck at a time when there was concrete in the trucks. While
selling perishable products may be risky business, the perishable
nature of Glacier’s concrete did not impose some obligation
on the drivers to strike in the middle of the night or before the
next day’s jobs had started. To the contrary, it was entirely
lawful for the drivers to start their workday per usual, and for
the Union to time the strike to put “maximum pressure on the
employer at minimum economic cost to the union.” NLRB
v. Insurance Agents, 361 U.S.
477, 496 (1960); see also Lumbee Farms Co-op., 285
N. L. R. B., at 506.

															Nor was the onus of protecting Glacier’s
economic interests if a strike was called in the middle of the day
on the drivers—it was, instead, on Glacier, which could have
taken any number of prophylactic, mitigating measures.[10] What Glacier seeks to do here is
to shift the duty of protecting an employer’s property from
damage or loss incident to a strike onto the striking workers,
beyond what the Board has already permitted via the
reasonable-precautions principle. In my view, doing that places a
significant burden on the employees’ exercise of their
statutory right to strike, unjustifiably undermining
Congress’s intent. Workers are not indentured servants, bound
to continue laboring until any planned work stoppage would be as
painless as possible for their master. They are employees whose
collective and peaceful decision to withhold their labor is
protected by the NLRA even if economic injury results.

															*  *  *

															Today, the majority fails, in multiple
respects, to heed Congress’s intent with respect to the
Board’s primary role in adjudicating labor disputes, despite
ostensibly applying Garmon, the bedrock case on that issue.
The Court’s ruling is likely to cause considerable confusion
among the lower courts about what Garmon requires. And any
such confusion not only threatens to encroach upon the
Board’s prerogatives, as Congress has assigned them, but also
risks erosion of the right to strike.

															Yet, the posture of this case provides an
opportunity to mitigate the results of the majority’s errors.
On remand, the state court should dismiss Glacier’s complaint
without prejudice or stay its proceedings in view of the General
Counsel’s complaint. Meanwhile, the Board—which is not
bound by the allegations in Glacier’s complaint when making
its assessment, and is well equipped to make findings of fact
concerning the strike conduct at issue—should proceed to
determine whether Glacier has interfered with strike conduct that
is protected by the NLRA, as alleged by the General Counsel.

Notes
1
 Justice Thomas seeks to
undercut our Garmon precedent by describing it as
“od[d]” and “strang[e]” relative to
“ ‘the usual preemption rule.’ ”
Ante, at 1, 3 (opinion concurring in judgment). But, as
discussed, the Garmon rule is not a standard preemption
doctrine; it is different because it is doing different work.
Garmon protects Congress’s judgment that the Board,
not state or federal courts, should be generally responsible for
the development of our Nation’s labor law. The required pause
when Garmon’s “arguably protected” test is
satisfied allows for efficient resolution of the dispute prior to
the expenditure of state judicial resources, and the temporary
nature of the pause makes it narrower, not broader, in effect than
ordinary preemption.
2
 This is not to suggest
that the General Counsel’s complaint is the end of the story,
as the Board may ultimately disagree with the factual or legal
basis of that pleading. But the complaint is surely sufficient to
establish arguable protection, such that a court should stay
its hand.
3
 Order Denying Motion for
Postponement of Hearing in Glacier Northwest, Inc., Nos.
19–CA–203068, 19–CA–211776,
p. 7.
4
 The Washington Supreme
Court affirmed the dismissal of Glacier’s claims. Because
only a pause of the state-court litigation is necessary under
Garmon, the proper disposition is either a stay of
proceedings or dismissal without prejudice.
5
 Justice Blackmun warned
that a formulation of the Garmon test that directs attention
to a party’s evidence might lead some courts to make such an
errant assessment, “under the guise of weighing the
sufficiency of the evidence.” Longshoremen v.
Davis, 476 U.S.
380, 404 (1986) (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in
part) (expressing the concern that a future court might
misunderstand its role and mistakenly undertake “[to] mak[e]
precisely the determination that Garmon makes clear is for
the Board, and only the Board, to make”). That warning was
prescient.
6
 The Senate Report
accompanying the Taft-Hartley Amendments explained the four kinds
of pre-existing “limitations or qualifications” on the
right to strike that Congress had in mind in §163, which were
drawn from decisions of the Board and this Court. See S. Rep. No.
105, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., 28 (1947); Drivers, 362
U. S., at 281–282. The three other exceptions concern
strikes for illegal objectives, strikes in breach of contract, and
strikes in breach of other federal law. See S. Rep. No. 105, at
28.
7
 Justice Alito, relying on
the rule from NLRB v. Fansteel Metallurgical Corp.,
306 U.S.
240 (1939), gleans more from the loss of concrete than either
the majority or I do. He concludes that the NLRA’s right to
strike does not protect the drivers’ alleged conduct because
Glacier has alleged that the drivers purposefully caused the
batched concrete to be destroyed. In my view, that approach fails
to appreciate the distinction Fansteel drew between
purposefully but peacefully stopping work (and the economic
consequences that flow from that decision), which is protected, and
taking subsequent, affirmative steps of violence or property
seizure, which is unprotected. To be sure, Fansteel would
have rendered the drivers’ actions here patently unprotected
if they had taken the affirmative steps of stealing the trucks,
slashing the trucks’ tires, or dumping out the concrete after
they went on strike. But nothing like that is alleged in
Glacier’s complaint.
8
 See, e.g.,
ante, at 8 (“[T]he Union executed the strike in a
manner designed to compromise the safety of Glacier’s trucks
and destroy its concrete”); ante, at 10 (“[The
drivers] not only destroyed the concrete but also put
Glacier’s trucks in harm’s way. This case therefore
involves much more than ‘a work stoppage at a time when the
loss of perishable products is foreseeable’ ”);
ante, at 12 (“The Union’s actions not only
resulted in the destruction of all the concrete Glacier had
prepared that day; they also posed a risk of foreseeable,
aggravated, and imminent harm to Glacier’s
trucks”).
9
 For the same reason, the
state court would not be bound by the majority’s recitation
of the facts at this motion-to-dismiss stage in any future
proceedings on this matter in state court.
10  For
example, Glacier could have instituted a lockout, see American
Ship Building Co. v. NLRB, 380 U.S.
300, 310 (1965), used nonstriking employees to deliver the
batched concrete, or had temporary replacement drivers lined up and
ready to go. Glacier was on notice that a strike was possible
because the Union was statutorily required to give 60-days advance
notice of the proposed termination or modification of the
collective-bargaining agreement, §158(d), and because
negotiations had broken down.


