::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1158
::decision_name::  Percoco v. United States
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States
Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of
Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington,
D. C. 20543, pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or
other formal errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1158

															_________________

															JOSEPH PERCOCO, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[May 11, 2023]

															

															Justice Alito delivered the opinion of the
Court.[1]*

															In this case, we consider whether a private
citizen with influence over government decision-making can be
convicted for wire fraud on the theory that he or she deprived the
public of its “intangible right of honest services.”
18 U. S. C. §§1343, 1346. Petitioner Joseph
Percoco was charged with conspiring to commit honest-services wire
fraud during a period of time that included an eight-month interval
between two stints as a top aide to the Governor of New York.
Percoco was convicted of this offense based on instructions that
required the jury to determine whether he had a “special
relationship” with the government and had “dominated
and controlled” government business. 2 App. 511. We conclude
that this is not the proper test for determining whether a private
person may be convicted of honest-services fraud, and we therefore
reverse and remand for further proceedings.

															I

															Percoco was a longtime political associate of
former New

															

															York Governor Andrew Cuomo. Except for a brief
but important hiatus in 2014, Percoco served as the
Governor’s Executive Deputy Secretary from 2011 to 2016, and
that position gave him a wide range of influence over state
decision-making. In April 2014, Percoco resigned from this position
to manage the Governor’s reelection campaign, but after the
Governor was reelected, he resumed his role as Executive Deputy
Secretary in December 2014.

															The question we address today arises from
Percoco’s activities during his break in government service.
In July 2014, Empire State Development (ESD), a state agency,
informed developer Steven Aiello that his real-estate company, COR
Development, needed to enter into a “Labor Peace
Agreement” with local unions if he wished to receive state
funding for a lucrative project. Id., at 597. Interested in
avoiding the costs of such an agreement, Aiello reached out to
Percoco through an intermediary so that Percoco could “help
us with this issue while he is off the 2nd floor,”
i.e., the floor that housed the Governor’s office.
Id., at 594. Percoco agreed and received two payments
totaling $35,000 from Aiello’s company in August and October
2014. On December 3, mere days before returning to his old job,
Percoco called a senior official at ESD and urged him to drop the
labor-peace requirement. ESD promptly reversed course the next day
and informed Aiello that the agreement was not necessary.

															Percoco’s dealings in this and other
matters later came to the attention of the United States Department
of Justice, which obtained a multi-count indictment against Percoco
and others for engaging in several allegedly illegal
schemes.[2] Percoco was charged
with two counts of conspiring to commit honest-services wire fraud,
in violation of 18 U. S. C. §§1343, 1346, and
1349; two counts of soliciting bribes and gratuities, in violation
of §666(a)(1)(B); and three counts of Hobbs Act extortion, in
violation of §1951. 1 App. 96–103. Only the wire fraud
conspiracy count relating to the labor-peace requirement (count 10)
is directly at issue before this Court.

															That count alleged a conspiracy running
“[f]rom at least in or about 2014, up to and including in or
about 2015,” that is, both during the time when Percoco was
formally employed in the Governor’s office and during the
period when he was working on the Governor’s campaign. See
id., at 100 (incorporating ¶4 and
¶¶33–35 of the indictment). Before trial, Percoco
moved for dismissal of that count—and another conspiracy
count overlapping with the campaign period—on the ground that
a private citizen cannot commit or conspire to commit
honest-services wire fraud based on his own duty of honest services
to the public. See id., at 130, 133. The District Court
denied that motion, noting that the indictment alleged that
Percoco, while formally working on the Governor’s campaign,
had “ ‘continued to function in a senior advisory
and supervisory role with regard to the Governor’s
Office’ ” and had “ ‘continued to
be involved in the hiring of staff and the coordination of the
Governor’s official events and priorities . . .
among other responsibilities.’ ” Id., at
133 (quoting id., at 77, Indictment ¶4).

															At trial, the prosecution introduced evidence to
support the indictment’s allegations about Percoco’s
activities during his break in official service, as well as
evidence that he had expressed his intent and had made plans to
resume official service after the election. See 13 F. 4th 180,
201–203 (CA2 2021). At the end of the prosecution’s
case, Percoco again moved for judgment of acquittal on count 10,
contending that no evidence showed that he had taken any act in
furtherance of that conspiracy while serving in an official
government capacity. Id., at 187.

															The court reserved decision on that motion,
ibid., and the case was submitted to the jury. Over defense
counsel’s objection, the court instructed that Percoco could
be found to have had a duty to provide honest services to the
public during the time when he was not serving as a public official
if the jury concluded, first, that “he dominated and
controlled any governmental business” and, second, that
“people working in the government actually relied on him
because of a special relationship he had with the
government.” 2 App. 511. The jury convicted Percoco on count
10, as well as two other charged counts relating to additional
conduct, but acquitted him on the other charges. The court then
denied Percoco’s motion for judgment of acquittal, and he was
sentenced to 72 months’ imprisonment. 13 F. 4th, at
187–188.

															On appeal, the Second Circuit affirmed. The
court explained that the “fiduciary-duty [jury]
instruction” given by the trial judge “fi[t]
comfortably” with, and in fact restated, the understanding of
honest-services fraud that the Second Circuit had adopted many
years earlier in United States v. Margiotta, 688 F.2d
108 (1982). See 13 F. 4th, at 194 (noting that Percoco and his
co-defendants “seem to agree that the district court’s
fiduciary-duty instruct[ion] falls within Margiotta”).
Based on that precedent, the court also rejected Percoco’s
claim that there was insufficient evidence to prove that he had
“owed New York State a duty of honest services while he was
managing the Governor’s campaign.” Id., at
201.

															Percoco sought this Court’s review, asking
us to decide whether a private citizen who “has informal
political or other influence over governmental
decisionmaking” can be convicted of honest-services fraud.
Pet. for Cert. i. We granted certiorari. 597 U. S. ___
(2022).[3]

															II

															A

															As noted, the decision below was based
squarely on the Second Circuit’s 1982 decision in
Margiotta, and we therefore begin by briefly recounting the
events that led up to and followed that decision. The federal wire
fraud statute, §1343 (like the older federal mail fraud
statute, §1341), targets the use of certain instrumentalities
to advance “any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for
obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent
pretenses, representations, or promises.” Before 1987,
“all Courts of Appeals had embraced” the view that
these statutes proscribe what came to be known as
“honest-services fraud.” Skilling v. United
States, 561 U.S.
358, 401 (2010). In most of these cases, public employees had
accepted a bribe or kickback in exchange for dishonest conduct that
did not necessarily cause their employers to suffer a financial
loss, but this conduct was found to constitute mail or wire fraud
because it deprived the relevant government unit (and thus, by
extension, the public) of the right to receive honest services. See
id., at 400–401.

															In Margiotta, the Second Circuit faced a
case that departed from this pattern. Joseph Margiotta chaired the
Republican Party Committees for Nassau County and the town of
Hempstead, New York, and he used the influence that came with those
positions to carry out a kickback scheme. He was indicted for
honest-services mail fraud, and although he held “no elective
office,” the prosecution argued that he nevertheless breached
a duty to render honest services because his party positions
“afforded him sufficient power and prestige to exert
substantial control over public officials.” 688 F. 2d,
at 113.

															A divided Second Circuit panel agreed. The
majority found that “there is no precise litmus paper
test” for determining when a private person “owes a
fiduciary duty to the general citizenry” but that “two
time-tested measures of fiduciary status [were] helpful.”
Id., at 122. These were (1) whether “others rel[ied]
upon [the accused] because of [his] special relationship in the
government” and (2) whether he exercised “de facto
control” over “governmental decisions.”
Ibid. Admitting that the case before it was
“novel” and that determining when a private person owes
a duty of honest services was “a most difficult
enterprise,” the majority nevertheless concluded that a
private person could commit honest-services fraud if he or she
“dominate[d] government.” Id., at 121–122.
In a strongly worded partial dissent, Judge Winter complained that
the majority’s interpretation lacked “the slightest
basis in Congressional intent, statutory language or common canons
of statutory interpretation” and that it erroneously treated
a variety of “politically active persons” who have
informal but strong influence over government as subject to the
same duties as officeholders. Id., at 142 (opinion
concurring in part and dissenting in part).

															This Court declined to review the Second
Circuit’s decision, 461 U.S. 913 (1983), but that
decision’s life as Second Circuit precedent was short-lived.
In McNally v. United States, 483
U.S. 350 (1987), the Court considered a similar case, and
rather than addressing the application of honest-services fraud to
private persons, the Court rejected the entire concept of
honest-services fraud and held that the mail fraud statute was
“limited in scope to the protection of property
rights.” Id., at 358, 360.

															McNally’s holding on
honest-services fraud, however, lasted for less time than
Margiotta’s. “Congress responded swiftly”
and enacted 18 U. S. C. §1346, which provides that
the “ ‘the term “scheme or artifice to
defraud,” ’ ” which appears in both §1341
and §1343, “ ‘includes a scheme or artifice to
deprive another of the intangible right of honest services.’
” Skilling, 561 U. S., at 402 (quoting
§1346).

															Decades later, this Court considered and
rejected the broad argument that §1346 is unconstitutionally
vague, and in doing so, clarified the meaning of the phrase
“the intangible right of honest services.” Id.,
at 402–405. Noting §1346’s use of “
‘[t]he definite article “the” ’ ” in
the phrase “the intangible right of honest
services,” we held that §1346 covers the
“core” of pre-McNally honest-services case law
and did not apply to “ ‘all intangible rights of
honest services whatever they might be thought to be.’
” 561 U. S., at 404–405 (quoting United
States v. Rybicki, 
354 F.3d 124, 137–138 (CA2 2003) (en banc)). And we
observed that “[i]n the main, the pre-McNally cases
involved fraudulent schemes to deprive another of honest services
through bribes or kickbacks supplied by a third party who had not
been deceived.” 561 U. S., at 404. We reasoned that those
engaging in such schemes had sufficient reason to know that their
conduct was proscribed. Id., at 407, 410, 412.

															Skilling’s approach informs our
decision in this case. Here, the Second Circuit concluded that
“Congress effectively reinstated the Margiotta-theory
cases by adopting statutory language that covered the
theory.” 13 F. 4th, at 196. But Skilling was careful
to avoid giving §1346 an indeterminate breadth that would
sweep in any conception of “intangible rights of honest
services” recognized by some courts prior to
McNally.

															This is illustrated by Skilling’s
rejection of the Government’s argument that §1346 should
be held to reach cases involving “ ‘undisclosed
self-dealing by a public official or private
employee—i.e., the taking of official action by the
employee that furthers his own undisclosed financial interests
while purporting to act in the interests of those to whom he owes a
fiduciary duty.’ ” 561 U. S., at 409–410.
Because the pre-McNally lower court decisions involving such
conduct were “inconsisten[t],” we concluded that this
“amorphous category of cases” did not “constitute
core applications of the honest-services doctrine.” 561
U. S., at 410.

															Skilling’s teaching is clear.
“[T]he intangible right of honest services” must be
defined with the clarity typical of criminal statutes and should
not be held to reach an ill- defined category of circumstances
simply because of a smattering of pre-McNally decisions.
With this lesson in mind, we turn to the question whether the
theory endorsed by the lower courts in this case gave §1346 an
uncertain breadth that raises “the due process concerns
underlying the vagueness doctrine.” See 561 U. S., at
408.

															B

															As noted, Percoco moved before trial for
dismissal of the honest-services conspiracy count at issue on the
ground that he was out of public office during part of the time
period within the indictment and that a private citizen cannot be
convicted of depriving the public of honest services. See
Defendant’s Memorandum of Law in Support of Motion To Dismiss
the Superseding Indictment in No. 1:16–cr–00776 (SDNY,
May 19, 2017), ECF Doc. 187, pp. 25–30. He advanced a similar
theory in his motion for acquittal, emphasizing that he was acting
under “a short-term agreement [with Aiello’s firm]
within the period in which he was no longer a state
employee.” 1 App. 447.

															On this point, Percoco’s arguments sweep
too broadly. To be sure, the pre-McNally record on
honest-services fraud is clearest when the Government seeks to
prosecute actual public officials. Most of the pre-McNally
honest-services prosecutions, including what appears to be the
first case to adopt that theory, involved actual public officials.
See Skilling, 561 U. S., at 400–401 (citing
Shushan v. United States, 117 F.2d 110, 115 (CA5
1941)). But we reject the argument that a person nominally outside
public employment can never have the necessary fiduciary
duty to the public. Without becoming a government employee,
individuals not formally employed by a government entity may enter
into agreements that make them actual agents of the government. An
“agent owes a fiduciary obligation to the principal,”
see, e.g., 1 Restatement (Third) of Agency §1.01,
Comment e, p. 23 (2005), and therefore an agent of the
government has a fiduciary duty to the government and thus to the
public it serves. In this Court, Percoco has agreed that
individuals who are “delegated authority to act on behalf
” of a public official and to perform government duties have
a duty to provide honest services. Tr. of Oral Arg. 12; see also
Brief for Petitioner 22, 24, 37; Reply Brief 9. This
well-established principle suffices to confirm that the lower
courts correctly rejected Percoco’s per se rule
and, in doing so, did not stretch §1346 past heartland cases.
See Skilling, 561 U. S., at 408.

															Rejecting this absolute rule, however, is not
enough to sustain Percoco’s convictions on the wire fraud
conspiracy counts. “[T]he intangible right of honest
services” codified in §1346 plainly does not extend a
duty to the public to all private persons, and whether the
correct test was applied in this case returns us to
Margiotta.

															C

															Percoco challenges the Margiotta theory
that underlay the jury instructions in this case, and we must
therefore decide whether those instructions are correct. We hold
that they are not.

															1

															Directly applying Margiotta, the trial
judge told the jury that Percoco owed a duty of honest services to
the public if (1) he “dominated and controlled any
governmental business” and (2) “people working in the
government actually relied on him because of a special relationship
he had with the government.” 2 App. 511; see
Margiotta, 688 F. 2d, at 122. But
Margiotta’s standard is too vague. From time
immemorial, there have been éminence grises,
individuals who lacked any formal government position but
nevertheless exercised very strong influence over government
decisions. Some of these individuals have been reviled; others have
been respected as wise counselors. The Margiotta test could
be said to apply to many who fell into both of these camps. It
could also be used to charge particularly well-connected and
effective lobbyists. See 688 F.2d at 142 (opinion of Winter, J.).
Margiotta acknowledged that “the public has no right
to disinterested service” from lobbyists and political party
officials, but the rule it developed—which was embodied in
the jury instructions given in this case—implies that the
public does hold such a right whenever such persons’
clout exceeds some ill-defined threshold. Id., at 122.
Margiotta set a low bar, i.e., the point at which a
defendant’s influence goes beyond “minimum
participation in the processes of government.” Ibid.
The instructions in this case demanded more, viz., proof of
“dominat[ion],” but what does that mean in concrete
terms? Is it enough if an elected official almost always heeds the
advice of a long-time political adviser? Is it enough if an
officeholder leans very heavily on recommendations provided by a
highly respected predecessor, family member, or old friend? Without
further constraint, Margiotta does not (and thus, the jury
instructions did not) define “the intangible right of honest
services” “ ‘with sufficient definiteness that
ordinary people can understand what conduct is prohibited,’
” or “ ‘in a manner that does not encourage
arbitrary and discriminatory enforcement.’ ” 
McDonnell v. United States, 579 U.S. 550, 576 (2016)
(quoting Skilling, 561 U. S., at 402–403).

															2

															The Government does not defend these jury
instructions as an accurate statement of the law, but it argues
that their imprecision was harmless. Specifically, the Government
argues that a private individual owes a duty of honest services to
the public “in two discrete circumstances”: (1)
“when the person has been selected to work for the
government” in the future and (2) “when the person
exercises the functions of a government position with the
acquiescence of relevant government personnel.” Brief for
United States 25; cf. 18 U. S. C. §201(b) (federal
bribery statute incorporating “person[s] selected to be a
public official”).[4]

															The first theory differs substantially from the
jury instructions, which did not tell the jury that Percoco could
be found to owe a duty of honest services because he had been
selected for future government service. While the prosecution
offered evidence that Percoco intended to return to government
service after the election and had made plans to do so, the jury
could have found that the requirements set out in the jury
instructions were satisfied without relying on that evidence. Thus,
even if we assume for the sake of argument that there is some merit
in the Government’s first new theory, it is far from clear
that the erroneous jury instructions would be harmless.

															The Government’s second new
theory—i.e., that a private citizen owes a duty to
render honest services “when the person exercises the
functions of a government position with the acquiescence of
relevant government personnel”—appears, as defined in
its brief, to restate Margiotta’s erroneous
construction of the law. See Brief for United States 33
(instructions “as a whole and in the context of this case
. . . correctly conveyed” this test). Moreover, the
jury was not told that it was necessary to find that
“relevant government personnel”
“acquiesce[d]” in Percoco’s exercise of
government functions.

															In short, the jury instructions are
substantially different from either of the Government’s new
theories, and the Second Circuit—which treated even the
language the Government now disclaims in Margiotta as good
law—did not affirm on either of these theories. We decline to
do so here.

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, the judgment of the Court
of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
* Justice Jackson joins
all but Part II–C–2 of this opinion.
2
 Louis Ciminelli, see No.
21–1170, was also named in this indictment but not in the
counts at issue in this case.
3
 Percoco did not petition
for review of the Second Circuit’s affirmance of the two
other convictions relating to additional conduct, including a
conviction that also charged conspiracy to commit honest-services
fraud. See Pet. for Cert. 8. He now argues that reversal of his
conviction on the wire fraud conspiracy count before the Court
necessitates reversal of these other counts due to
“prejudicial spillover.” Brief for Petitioner 20. We do
not reach this question.
4
 The Government also
alluded to a possible third theory at oral argument, saying that
there were “indicia throughout this case that Petitioner was
just acting in the role . . . that he had previously
formally held.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 64. To the extent this is a
belated argument that Percoco’s leaving office was to some
degree a sham, we express no view on the viability of this
alternative theory of conviction in this case on the evidence
presented.


