::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1158
::decision_name::  Percoco v. United States
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1158

															_________________

															JOSEPH PERCOCO, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[May 11, 2023]

															

															Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Thomas
joins, concurring in the judgment.

															The Court holds that the jury instructions in
this case were “too vague.” Ante, at 10. I
agree. But to my mind, the problem runs deeper than that because no
set of instructions could have made things any better. To this day,
no one knows what “honest-services fraud” encompasses.
And the Constitution’s promise of due process does not
tolerate that kind of uncertainty in our laws—especially when
criminal sanctions loom. “Vague laws” impermissibly
“hand off the legislature’s responsibility for defining
criminal behavior to unelected prosecutors and judges, and they
leave people with no sure way to know what consequences will attach
to their conduct.” United States v. Davis, 588
U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 1).

															Honest-services fraud and this Court’s
vagueness jurisprudence are old friends. The story traces back to
the early 1940s when a string of lower courts began stretching the
federal mail-fraud statute’s phrase “scheme or artifice
to defraud.” 18 U. S. C. §1341. Everyone
understood that the phrase covers efforts to swindle money or
property. But some lower courts began suggesting that the phrase
also sweeps in schemes to deprive others of “intangible
rights,” including the right to “honest
services.” Skilling v. United States, 561 U.S.
358, 400 (2010) (citing cases). What did this new
“honest-services fraud” concept encompass? Even the
lower courts that devised the theory could not agree. They clashed
over everything from who owes a duty of honest services to what
sources of law may give rise to that duty to what sort of actions
constitute a breach of it. See id., at 416–420
(Scalia, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).

															Eventually, that uncertainty demanded this
Court’s attention. In McNally v. United States,
483 U.S.
350 (1987), the Court held that, while §1341
“clearly protects property rights,” it does not protect
more abstract interests like a right to “honest
. . . government.” Id., at 355, 356.
McNally rested, in no small part, on vagueness concerns. Any
other interpretation, the Court emphasized, would leave the
law’s “outer boundaries ambiguous.” Id.,
at 360. If Congress wanted to extend the law to protect more than
property rights, the Court added, “it must speak more clearly
than it has.” Ibid.

															Soon Congress did speak. It enacted §1346,
which now defines the phrase “scheme or artifice to
defraud” to include “a scheme or artifice to deprive
another of the intangible right of honest services.” In one
sense, the new law did offer clarity. It dispelled any doubt about
whether Congress intended the mail-fraud statute (and later the
wire-fraud statute, §1343) to protect a right to “honest
services.” But in another sense, the law clarified nothing.
Congress did not address McNally’s concern that the
phrase “honest-services fraud” is unworkably
vague. Nothing in the new law attempted to resolve when the
duty of honest services arises, what sources of law create that
duty, or what amounts to a breach of it. Nor did the new law
cross-reference any portion of the federal criminal code that might
have lent clarity to the concept.

															These problems resurfaced in Skilling.
There, a majority of the Court acknowledged that a “vagueness
challenge [to §1346] ha[d] force.” 561 U. S., at
405. But instead of “throw[ing] out the statute as
irremediably vague,” the majority elected to fill in some of
the blanks. Id., at 403–404. To that end, the majority
“look[ed] to the doctrine” of honest-services fraud as
it had developed in the lower courts “in pre-McNally
cases.” Id., at 404. Recognizing the many internal
tensions in that line of cases, the majority attempted to
“pare that body of precedent down to its core.”
Ibid. What exactly falls within that “core”? The
majority could not say. All it could muster was that, “[i]n
the main,” honest-services convictions had involved
“fraudulent schemes to deprive another of honest services
through bribes or kickbacks supplied by a third party who had not
been deceived.” Ibid.

															Justice Scalia, Justice Kennedy, and Justice
Thomas declined to participate in Skilling’s rescue
mission. They saw the Court’s decision as an act of
“not interpretation but invention.” Id., at 422
(opinion of Scalia, J.). Nothing in the statute, they observed,
confined breaches of the duty of honest services to bribes or
kickbacks. Indeed, not a single lower court had understood the
concept to be limited in that way. Id., at 423. Nor could
the dissenters find anything in the judicial power permitting them
to “replac[e] a vague criminal standard that Congress adopted
with a more narrow one (included within the vague one).”
Id., at 422.

															Even on its own terms, the dissenters noted, the
majority’s reconstruction of the statute failed “to
eliminate [its] vagueness.” Id., at 421. The majority
had not attempted to define what constitutes a breach of the
“ ‘honest services’ obligation,” but sought
to identify only conduct that fell within its “core.”
Ibid. Nor had the majority done anything to “solve the
most fundamental indeterminacy” in honest-services-fraud
theory, ibid., for nothing in its decision explained what
kinds of fiduciary relationships are sufficient to trigger a duty
of honest services in the first place. Is the duty of honest
services limited “to public officials” serving the
government? Ibid. Does it also apply “to private
individuals who contract with the public?” Ibid. Or
does it apply to “everyone” who owes some sort of
fiduciary responsibility to others, including (say) a corporate
officer? Ibid. What source of law, too, should a court
consult to answer these questions? Must a fiduciary duty arise from
positive state or federal law, or can it arise from general trust
law, “a corpus juris festooned with various
duties”? Id., at 417–418. All these questions,
the dissenters observed, had long divided lower courts and remained
unanswered.

															Today, the Court returns to these quandaries.
The jury instructions in this case sought to identify at least one
instance when a duty of honest services arises—namely, when a
private individual has “ ‘dominated and controlled
any governmental business’ ” and
“ ‘people working in the government actually
relied on him because of a special relationship he had with the
government.’ ” Ante, at 9–10. But
that formulation, the Court holds, is “too vague” to
pass constitutional muster. Ante, at 10. That is so,
the Court reasons, because it could result in the conviction of
anyone whose “clout exceeds some ill-defined
threshold” and thus sweep in “effective
lobbyists” exercising their First Amendment right to petition
the government. Ibid. The Court also pauses briefly to
address two alternative tests the government suggests for defining
when a duty of honest services may attach. But the Court takes no
view on the first and rejects the second. Ante, at
11–12. In the end, we may now know a little bit more about
when a duty of honest services does not arise, but we still
have no idea when it does.

															It’s a situation that leaves prosecutors
and lower courts in a bind. They must continue guessing what kind
of fiduciary relationships this Court will find sufficient to give
rise to a duty of honest services. For them, it is back to the
drawing board in their indictments and their jury instructions. But
they are not the main victims here. That plight belongs to private
citizens. In this country, a criminal law is supposed to provide
“ordinary people fair notice of the conduct it
punishes.” Johnson v. United States, 576 U.S.
591, 595 (2015); see also Connally v. General Constr.
Co., 269 U.S.
385, 391 (1926). Yet even 80 years after lower courts began
experimenting with the honest-services-fraud theory, no one can say
what sort of fiduciary relationship is enough to sustain a federal
felony conviction and decades in federal prison.

															To be sure, I cannot fault the Court for the
problem. The difficulty here stems from the statute and the lower
court decisions that inspired it. I have no doubt that if all nine
Justices put our heads together, we could rewrite §1346 to
provide fair notice and minimize the risk of uneven enforcement. I
have no doubt, too, that we could find a hook for any such rule
somewhere in the morass of pre-McNally lower-court case law.
Maybe, too, that is the path we are on, effectively writing this
law bit by bit in decisions spanning decades with the help of
prosecutors and lower courts who present us with one option after
another. But that is not a path the Constitution tolerates. Under
our system of separated powers, the Legislative Branch must do the
hard work of writing federal criminal laws. Congress cannot give
the Judiciary uncut marble with instructions to chip away all that
does not resemble David. See United States v. Reese,
92 U.S.
214, 221 (1876) (“It would certainly be dangerous if the
legislature could set a net large enough to catch all possible
offenders, and leave it to the courts to step inside and say who
could be rightfully detained, and who should be set at
large”); United States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat.
76, 95 (1820) (Marshall, C. J.) (“It is the legislature,
not the Court, which is to define a crime, and ordain its
punishment”).

															Doubtless, Congress had high and worthy
intentions when it enacted §1346. But it must do more than
invoke an aspirational phrase and leave it to prosecutors and
judges to make things up as they go along. The Legislature must
identify the conduct it wishes to prohibit. And its prohibition
must be knowable in advance—not a lesson to be learned by
individuals only when the prosecutor comes calling or the judge
debuts a novel charging instruction. Perhaps Congress will someday
set things right by revising §1346 to provide the clarity it
desperately needs. Until then, this Court should decline further
invitations to invent rather than interpret this law.

													
