::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1271
::decision_name::  Moore v. Harper
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1271

															_________________

															TIMOTHY K. MOORE, in his official capacity as
SPEAKER OF THE NORTH CAROLINA HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
et al., PETITIONERS v. REBECCA HARPER, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
north carolina

															[June 27, 2023]

															

															Justice Kavanaugh, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full. The
Court today correctly concludes that state laws governing federal
elections are subject to ordinary state court review, including for
compliance with the relevant state constitution. Ante, at
15, 26, 29. But because the Elections Clause assigns authority
respecting federal elections to state legislatures, the Court also
correctly concludes that “state courts do not have free
rein” in conducting that review. Ante, at 26.
Therefore, a state court’s interpretation of state law in a
case implicating the Elections Clause is subject to federal court
review. Ante, at 26–30; see also Bush v.
Palm Beach County Canvassing Bd., 531 U.S.
70, 76–78 (2000) (unanimously concluding that a state
court’s interpretation of state law in a federal election
case presents a federal issue); cf. Democratic National
Committee v. Wisconsin State Legislature, 592 U. S.
___, ___, n. 1 (2020) (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in denial of
application to vacate stay) (slip op., at 9, n. 1). Federal
court review of a state court’s interpretation of state law
in a federal election case “does not imply a disrespect for
state courts but rather a respect for the constitutionally
prescribed role of state legislatures.” Bush v.
Gore, 531 U.S.
98, 115 (2000) (Rehnquist, C. J., concurring).

															The question, then, is what standard a federal
court should employ to review a state court’s interpretation
of state law in a case implicating the Elections
Clause—whether Chief Justice Rehnquist’s standard from
Bush v. Gore; Justice Souter’s standard from
Bush v. Gore; the Solicitor General’s proposal
in this case; or some other standard.

															Chief Justice Rehnquist’s standard is
straightforward: whether the state court “impermissibly
distorted” state law “beyond what a fair reading
required.” Ibid. As I understand it, Justice
Souter’s standard, at least the critical language, is
similar: whether the state court exceeded “the limits of
reasonable” interpretation of state law. Id., at 133
(dissenting opinion). And the Solicitor General here has proposed
another similar approach: whether the state court reached a
“truly aberrant” interpretation of state law. Brief for
United States as Amicus Curiae 27.

															As I see it, all three standards convey
essentially the same point: Federal court review of a state
court’s interpretation of state law in a federal election
case should be deferential, but deference is not
abdication.[1] I would adopt
Chief Justice Rehnquist’s straightforward standard. As able
counsel for North Carolina stated at oral argument, the Rehnquist
standard “best sums it up.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 131. Chief
Justice Rehnquist’s standard should apply not only to state
court interpretations of state statutes, but also to state court
interpretations of state constitutions. And in reviewing state
court interpretations of state law, “we necessarily must
examine the law of the State as it existed prior to the action of
the [state] court.” Bush, 531 U. S., at 114
(Rehnquist, C. J., concurring).

															Petitioners here, however, have disclaimed any
argument that the North Carolina Supreme Court misinterpreted the
North Carolina Constitution or other state law. See ante, at
29.[2] For now, therefore, this
Court need not, and ultimately does not, adopt any specific
standard for our review of a state court’s interpretation of
state law in a case implicating the Elections Clause. See
ante, at 28 (“We do not adopt these or any other test
by which we can measure state court interpretations of state law in
cases implicating the Elections Clause”). Instead, the Court
today says simply that “state courts do not have free
rein” and “hold[s] only that state courts may not
transgress the ordinary bounds of judicial review.”
Ante, at 26, 29. In other words, the Court has recognized
and articulated a general principle for federal court review of
state court decisions in federal election cases. In the future, the
Court should and presumably will distill that general principle
into a more specific standard such as the one advanced by Chief
Justice Rehnquist.

															With those additional comments, I agree with the
Court’s conclusions that (i) state laws governing federal
elections are subject to ordinary state court review, and (ii) a
state court’s interpretation of state law in a case
implicating the Elections Clause is in turn subject to federal
court review.

Notes
1
 I doubt that there would
be a material difference in application among the standards
formulated by Chief Justice Rehnquist, Justice Souter, and the
Solicitor General, given the similarities in the three standards,
at least as described above. To be sure, different judges may reach
different conclusions in an individual case about whether a
particular state court interpretation is impermissible under the
chosen standard. But I doubt that the precise formulation of the
standard—assuming it is Chief Justice Rehnquist’s,
Justice Souter’s, or the Solicitor
General’s—would be the decisive factor in any such
disagreement.
2
 Instead, petitioners make
the broader argument, which the Court today properly rejects, that
the Elections Clause bars state courts from reviewing state laws
for compliance with the relevant state constitution.


