::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-048
::decision_cite:: 21-147
::decision_name::  Egbert v. Boule
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–147

															_________________

															ERIK EGBERT, PETITIONER v. ROBERT BOULE

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 8, 2022]

															

															Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.

															In Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents,

403 U.S. 388 (1971), this Court authorized a damages action against federal officials for alleged violations of the
 
Fourth Amendment.  Over the past 42 years, however, we have declined 11 times to imply a similar cause of action for other alleged constitutional violations.  See Chappell v. Wallace,

462 U.S. 296 (1983); Bush v. Lucas,

462 U.S. 367 (1983); United States v. Stanley,

483 U.S. 669 (1987); Schweiker v. Chilicky,

487 U.S. 412 (1988); FDIC v. Meyer,

510 U.S. 471 (1994); Correctional Services Corp. v. Malesko,

534 U.S. 61 (2001); Wilkie v. Robbins,

551 U.S. 537 (2007); Hui v. Castaneda,

559 U.S. 799 (2010); Minneci v. Pollard,

565 U.S. 118 (2012); Ziglar v. Abbasi, 582 U. S. ___ (2017); Hernández v. Mesa, 589 U. S. ___ (2020).  Nevertheless, the Court of Appeals permitted not one, but two constitutional damages actions to proceed against a U. S. Border Patrol agent: a
 
Fourth Amendment excessive-force claim and a
 
First Amendment retaliation claim.  Because our cases have made clear that, in all but the most unusual circumstances, prescribing a cause of action is a job for Congress, not the courts, we reverse.

															I

															Blaine, Washington, is the last town in the United States along U. S. Interstate Highway 5 before reaching the Canadian border.  Respondent Robert Boule is a longtime Blaine resident.  The rear of his property abuts the Canadian border at “0 Avenue,” a Canadian street.  Boule’s property line actually extends five feet into Canada.  Several years ago, Boule placed a line of small stones on his property to mark the international boundary.  As shown below, any person could easily enter the United States or Canada through or near Boule’s property.  See App. 100.

															Boule markets his home as a bed-and-breakfast aptly named “Smuggler’s Inn.”  The area surrounding the Inn “is a hotspot for cross-border smuggling of people, drugs, illicit money, and items of significance to criminal organizations.”  Id., at 91.  “On numerous occasions,” U. S. Border Patrol agents “have observed persons come south across the border and walk into Smuggler’s Inn through the back door.”  Id., at 101.  Federal agents also have seized from the Inn shipments of cocaine, methamphetamine, ecstasy, and other narcotics.  For a time, Boule served as a confidential informant who would help federal agents identify and apprehend persons engaged in unlawful cross-border activity on or near his property.  Boule claims that the Government has paid him upwards of $60,000 for his services.

															Ever the entrepreneur, Boule saw his relationship with Border Patrol as a business opportunity.  Boule would host persons who unlawfully entered the United States as “guests” at the Inn and offer to drive them to Seattle or elsewhere.  He also would pick up Canada-bound guests throughout the State and drive them north to his property along the border.  Either way, Boule would charge $100–$150 per hour for his shuttle service and require guests to pay for a night of lodging even if they never intended to stay at the Inn.  Meanwhile, Boule would inform federal law enforcement if he was scheduled to lodge or transport persons of interest.  In short order, Border Patrol agents would arrive to arrest the guests, often within a few blocks of the Inn.  Boule would decline to offer his erstwhile customers a refund.  In his view, this practice was “nothing any different than [the] normal policies of any hotel/motel.”  Id., at 120.[1]

															In light of Boule’s business model, local Border Patrol agents, including petitioner Erik Egbert, were well acquainted with Smuggler’s Inn and the criminal activity that attended it.  On March 20, 2014, Boule informed Agent Egbert that a Turkish national, arriving in Seattle by way of New York, had scheduled transportation to Smuggler’s Inn later that day.  Agent Egbert grew suspicious, as he could think of “no legitimate reason a person would travel from Turkey to stay at a rundown bed-and-breakfast on the border in Blaine.”  Id., at 104.  The photograph below displays the amenities for which Boule’s Turkish guest would have traveled more than 7,500 miles.  See id., at 102.

															Later that afternoon, Agent Egbert observed one of Boule’s vehicles—a black SUV with the license plate “SMUGLER”—returning to the Inn.  Agent Egbert suspected that Boule’s Turkish guest was a passenger and followed the SUV into the driveway so he could check the guest’s immigration status.  On Boule’s account, the situation escalated from there.  Boule instructed Agent Egbert to leave his property, but Agent Egbert declined.  Instead, Boule claims, Agent Egbert lifted him off the ground and threw him against the SUV.  After Boule collected himself, Agent Egbert allegedly threw him to the ground.  Agent Egbert then checked the guest’s immigration paperwork, concluded that everything was in order, and left.  Later that evening, Boule’s Turkish guest unlawfully entered Canada from Smuggler’s Inn.

															Boule lodged a grievance with Agent Egbert’s supervisors, alleging that Agent Egbert had used excessive force and caused him physical injury.  Boule also filed an administrative claim with Border Patrol pursuant to the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA).  See

28 U. S. C. §2675(a).  According to Boule, Agent Egbert retaliated against him while those claims were pending by reporting Boule’s “SMUGLER” license plate to the Washington Department of Licensing for referencing illegal conduct, and by contacting the Internal Revenue Service and prompting an audit of Boule’s tax returns.  Ultimately, Boule’s FTCA claim was denied and, after a year-long investigation, Border Patrol took no action against Agent Egbert for his alleged use of force or acts of retaliation.  Thereafter, Agent Egbert continued to serve as an active-duty Border Patrol agent.

															In January 2017, Boule sued Agent Egbert in his individual capacity in Federal District Court, alleging a
 
Fourth Amendment violation for excessive use of force and a
 
First Amendment violation for unlawful retaliation.  Boule invoked Bivens and asked the District Court to recognize a damages action for each alleged constitutional violation.  The District Court declined to extend a Bivens remedy to Boule’s claims and entered judgment for Agent Egbert.  The Court of Appeals reversed.  See 998 F.3d 370, 385 (CA9 2021).  Twelve judges dissented from the denial of rehearing en banc.  See id., at 373 (Bumatay, J., dissenting); id., at 384 (Owens, J., dissenting); ibid. (Bress, J., dissenting).

															We granted certiorari.  595 U. S. ___ (2021).

															II

															In Bivens, the Court held that it had authority to create “a cause of action under the
 
Fourth Amendment” against federal agents who allegedly manacled the plaintiff and threatened his family while arresting him for narcotics violations.  403 U. S., at 397.  Although “the
 
Fourth Amendment does not in so many words provide for its enforcement by an award of money damages,” id., at 396, the Court “held that it could authorize a remedy under general principles of federal jurisdiction,” Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7) (citing Bivens, 403 U. S., at 392).  Over the following decade, the Court twice again fashioned new causes of action under the Constitution—first, for a former congressional staffer’s 
 
Fifth Amendment sex-discrimination claim, see Davis v. Passman,

442 U.S. 228 (1979); and second, for a federal prisoner’s inadequate-care claim under the
 
Eighth Amendment, see Carlson v. Green,

446 U.S. 14 (1980).

															Since these cases, the Court has not implied additional causes of action under the Constitution.  Now long past “the heady days in which this Court assumed common-law powers to create causes of action,” Malesko, 534 U. S., at 75 (Scalia, J., concurring), we have come “to appreciate more fully the tension between” judicially created causes of action and “the Constitution’s separation of legislative and judicial power,” Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  At bottom, creating a cause of action is a legislative endeavor.  Courts engaged in that unenviable task must evaluate a “range of policy considerations . . . at least as broad as the range . . . a legislature would consider.”  Bivens, 403 U. S., at 407 (Harlan, J., concurring in judgment); see also post, at 2 (Gorsuch, J., concurring in judgment).  Those factors include “economic and governmental concerns,” “administrative costs,” and the “impact on governmental operations systemwide.”  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 10, 13).  Unsurprisingly, Congress is “far more competent than the Judiciary” to weigh such policy considerations.  Schweiker, 487 U. S., at 423.  And the Judiciary’s authority to do so at all is, at best, uncertain.  See, e.g., Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6).

															Nonetheless, rather than dispense with Bivens altogether, we have emphasized that recognizing a cause of action under Bivens is “a disfavored judicial activity.”  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11) (internal quotation marks omitted); Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7) (internal quotation marks omitted).  When asked to imply a Bivens action, “our watchword is caution.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6).  “[I]f there are sound reasons to think Congress might doubt the efficacy or necessity of a damages remedy[,] the courts must refrain from creating [it].”  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 13).  “[E]ven a single sound reason to defer to Congress” is enough to require a court to refrain from creating such a remedy.  Nestlé USA, Inc. v. Doe, 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 6).  Put another way, “the most important question is who should decide whether to provide for a damages remedy, Congress or the courts?”  Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 19–20) (internal quotation marks omitted).  If there is a rational reason to think that the answer is “Congress”—as it will be in most every case, see Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12)—no Bivens action may lie.  Our cases instruct that, absent utmost deference to Congress’ preeminent authority in this area, the courts “arrogat[e] legislative power.”  Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5).

															To inform a court’s analysis of a proposed Bivens claim, our cases have framed the inquiry as proceeding in two steps.  See Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7).  First, we ask whether the case presents “a new Bivens context”—i.e., is it “meaningful[ly]” different from the three cases in which the Court has implied a damages action.  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 16).  Second, if a claim arises in a new context, a Bivens remedy is unavailable if there are “special factors” indicating that the Judiciary is at least arguably less equipped than Congress to “weigh the costs and benefits of allowing a damages action to proceed.”  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12) (internal quotation marks omitted).  If there is even a single “reason to pause before applying Bivens in a new context,” a court may not recognize a Bivens remedy.  Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7).

															While our cases describe two steps, those steps often resolve to a single question: whether there is any reason to think that Congress might be better equipped to create a damages remedy.  For example, we have explained that a new context arises when there are “potential special factors that previous Bivens cases did not consider.”  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 16).  And we have identified several examples of new contexts—e.g., a case that involves a “new category of defendants,” Malesko, 534 U. S., at 68; see also Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11)—largely because they represent situations in which a court is not undoubtedly better positioned than Congress to create a damages action.  We have never offered an “exhaustive” accounting of such scenarios, however, because no court could forecast every factor that might “counse[l] hesitation.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 16).  Even in a particular case, a court likely cannot predict the “systemwide” consequences of recognizing a cause of action under Bivens.  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 13).  That uncertainty alone is a special factor that forecloses relief.  See Hernández v. Mesa, 885 F.3d 811, 818 (CA5 2018) (en banc) (“The newness of this ‘new context’ should alone require dismissal”).

															Finally, our cases hold that a court may not fashion a Bivens remedy if Congress already has provided, or has authorized the Executive to provide, “an alternative remedial structure.”  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 14); see also Schweicker, 487 U. S., at 425.  If there are alternative remedial structures in place, “that alone,” like any special factor, is reason enough to “limit the power of the Judiciary to infer a new Bivens cause of action.”  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 14).[2]  Importantly, the relevant question is not whether a Bivens action would “disrup[t]” a remedial scheme, Schweicker, 487 U. S., at 426, or whether the court “should provide for a wrong that would otherwise go unredressed,” Bush, 462 U. S., at 388.  Nor does it matter that “existing remedies do not provide complete relief.”  Ibid.  Rather, the court must ask only whether it, rather than the political branches, is better equipped to decide whether existing remedies “should be augmented by the creation of a new judicial remedy.”  Ibid; see also id., at 380 (“the question [is] who should decide”).

															III

															Applying the foregoing principles, the Court of Appeals plainly erred when it created causes of action for Boule’s
 
Fourth Amendment excessive-force claim and
 
First Amendment retaliation claim.

															A

															The Court of Appeals conceded that Boule’s
 
Fourth Amendment claim presented a new context for Bivens purposes, yet it concluded there was no reason to hesitate before recognizing a cause of action against Agent Egbert.  See 998 F. 3d, at 387.  That conclusion was incorrect for two independent reasons: Congress is better positioned to create remedies in the border-security context, and the Government already has provided alternative remedies that protect plaintiffs like Boule.  We address each in turn.

															1

															In Hernández, we declined to create a damages remedy for an excessive-force claim against a Border Patrol agent who shot and killed a 15-year-old Mexican national across the border in Mexico.  See 589 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 1–2).  We did not recognize a Bivens action there because “regulating the conduct of agents at the border unquestionably has national security implications,” and the “risk of undermining border security provides reason to hesitate before extending Bivens into this field.”  Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 14).  This reasoning applies here with full force.  During the alleged altercation with Boule, Agent Egbert was carrying out Border Patrol’s mandate to “interdic[t] persons attempting to illegally enter or exit the United States or goods being illegally imported into or exported from the United States.”

6 U. S. C. §211(e)(3)(A).  Because “[m]atters intimately related to foreign policy and national security are rarely proper subjects for judicial intervention,” Haig v. Agee,

453 U.S. 280, 292 (1981), we reaffirm that a Bivens cause of action may not lie where, as here, national security is at issue.

															The Court of Appeals thought otherwise.  In its view, Boule’s
 
Fourth Amendment claim is “conventional,” 998 F. 3d, at 387; see also post, at 8, 12 (Sotomayor, J., concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in part) (same), and, though it arises in a new context, this Court has not “ ‘cast doubt’ ” on extending Bivens within the “ ‘common and recurrent sphere of law enforcement’ ” in which it arose, 998 F. 3d, at 389 (quoting Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11)).  While Bivens and this case do involve similar allegations of excessive force and thus arguably present “almost parallel circumstances” or a similar “mechanism of injury,” Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 15), these superficial similarities are not enough to support the judicial creation of a cause of action.  The special-factors inquiry—which Bivens never meaningfully undertook, see Stanley, 483 U. S., at 678—shows here, no less than in Hernández, that the Judiciary is not undoubtedly better positioned than Congress to authorize a damages action in this national-security context.  That this case does not involve a cross-border shooting, as in Hernández, but rather a more “conventional” excessive-force claim, as in Bivens, does not bear on the relevant point.  Either way, the Judiciary is comparatively ill suited to decide whether a damages remedy against any Border Patrol agent is appropriate.

															The Court of Appeals downplayed the national-security risk from imposing Bivens liability because Agent Egbert was not “literally ‘at the border,’ ” and Boule’s guest already had cleared customs in New York.  998 F. 3d, at 388; see also post, at 11–12, 18 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (same).  The court also found that Boule had a weightier interest in Bivens relief than the parents of the deceased Mexican teenager in Hernández, because Boule “is a United States citizen, complaining of harm suffered on his own property in the United States.”  998 F. 3d, at 388; see also post, at 12, 18 (opinion of Sotomayor, J.) (same).  Finding that “any costs imposed by allowing a Bivens claim to proceed are outweighed by compelling interests in favor of protecting United States citizens on their own property in the United States,” the court extended Bivens to Boule’s case.  998 F. 3d, at 389.

															This analysis is deeply flawed.  The Bivens inquiry does not invite federal courts to independently assess the costs and benefits of implying a cause of action.  A court faces only one question: whether there is any rational reason (even one) to think that Congress is better suited to “weigh the costs and benefits of allowing a damages action to proceed.”  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12).  Thus, a court should not inquire, as the Court of Appeals did here, whether Bivens relief is appropriate in light of the balance of circumstances in the “particular case.”  Stanley, 483 U. S., at 683.  A court inevitably will “impai[r]” governmental interests, and thereby frustrate Congress’ policymaking role, if it applies the “ ‘special factors’ analysis” at such a narrow “leve[l] of generality.”  Id., at 681.  Rather, under the proper approach, a court must ask “[m]ore broadly” if there is any reason to think that “judicial intrusion” into a given field might be “harmful” or “inappropriate.”  Ibid.  If so, or even if there is the “potential” for such consequences, a court cannot afford a plaintiff a Bivens remedy.  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 16, 25) (emphasis added).  As in Hernández, then, we ask here whether a court is competent to authorize a damages action not just against Agent Egbert but against Border Patrol agents generally.  The answer, plainly, is no.  See Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 14) (refusing to extend Bivens into the “field” of “border security”).

															The Court of Appeals’ analysis betrays the pitfalls of applying the special-factors analysis at too granular a level.  The court rested on three irrelevant distinctions from Hernández.  First, Agent Egbert was several feet from (rather than straddling) the border, but cross-border security is obviously implicated in either event.  Second, Boule’s guest arrived in Seattle from New York rather than abroad, but an alien’s port of entry does not make him less likely to be a national-security threat.  And third, Agent Egbert investigated immigration violations on our side of the border, not Canada’s, but immigration investigations in this country are perhaps more likely to impact the national security of the United States.  In short, the Court of Appeals offered no plausible basis to permit a
 
Fourth Amendment Bivens claim against Agent Egbert to proceed.

															2

															Second, Congress has provided alternative remedies for aggrieved parties in Boule’s position that independently foreclose a Bivens action here.  In Hernández, we declined to authorize a Bivens remedy, in part, because the Executive Branch already had investigated alleged misconduct by the defendant Border Patrol agent.  See 589 U. S., at ___–___, ___ (slip op., at 9–10, 14).  In Malesko, we explained that Bivens relief was unavailable because federal prisoners could, among other options, file grievances through an “Administrative Remedy Program.”  534 U. S., at 74.  Both kinds of remedies are available here.  The U. S. Border Patrol is statutorily obligated to “control, direc[t], and supervis[e] . . . all employees.”

8 U. S. C. §1103(a)(2).  And, by regulation, Border Patrol must investigate “[a]lleged violations of the standards for enforcement activities” and accept grievances from “[a]ny persons wishing to lodge a complaint.”  8 CFR §§287.10(a)–(b).  As noted, Boule took advantage of this grievance procedure, prompting a year-long internal investigation into Agent Egbert’s conduct.  See supra, at 4–5.

															Boule nonetheless contends that Border Patrol’s grievance process is inadequate because he is not entitled to participate and has no right to judicial review of an adverse determination.[3]  But we have never held that a Bivens alternative must afford rights to participation or appeal.  That is so because Bivens “is concerned solely with deterring the unconstitutional acts of individual officers”—i.e., the focus is whether the Government has put in place safeguards to “preven[t]” constitutional violations “from recurring.”  Malesko, 534 U. S., at 71, 74; see also Meyer, 510 U. S., at 485.  And, again, the question whether a given remedy is adequate is a legislative determination that must be left to Congress, not the federal courts.  So long as Congress or the Executive has created a remedial process that it finds sufficient to secure an adequate level of deterrence, the courts cannot second-guess that calibration by superimposing a Bivens remedy.  That is true even if a court independently concludes that the Government’s procedures are “not as effective as an individual damages remedy.”  Bush, 462 U. S., at 372.  Thus here, as in Hernández, we have no warrant to doubt that the consideration of Boule’s grievance against Agent Egbert secured adequate deterrence and afforded Boule an alternative remedy.  See 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10).

															B

															We also conclude that there is no Bivens cause of action for Boule’s
 
First Amendment retaliation claim.  While we have assumed that such a damages action might be available, see, e.g., Hartman v. Moore,

547 U.S. 250, 252 (2006), “[w]e have never held that Bivens extends to
 
First Amendment claims,” Reichle v. Howards,

566 U.S. 658, 663, n. 4 (2012).  Because a new context arises when there is a new “constitutional right at issue,” Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 16), the Court of Appeals correctly held that Boule’s
 
First Amendment claim presents a new Bivens context.  See 998 F. 3d, at 390.  Now presented with the question whether to extend Bivens to this context, we hold that there is no Bivens action for
 
First Amendment retaliation.  There are many reasons to think that Congress, not the courts, is better suited to authorize such a damages remedy.

															Recognizing any new Bivens action “entail[s] substantial social costs, including the risk that fear of personal monetary liability and harassing litigation will unduly inhibit officials in the discharge of their duties.”  Anderson v. Creighton,

483 U.S. 635, 638 (1987).  Extending Bivens to alleged
 
First Amendment violations would pose an acute risk of increasing such costs.  A plaintiff can turn practically any adverse action into grounds for a retaliation claim.  And, “[b]ecause an official’s state of mind is easy to allege and hard to disprove, insubstantial claims that turn on [retaliatory] intent may be less amenable to summary disposition.”  Crawford-El v. Britton,

523 U.S. 574, 584–585 (1998) (internal quotation marks omitted).  Even a frivolous retaliation claim “threaten[s] to set off broad-ranging discovery in which there is often no clear end to the relevant evidence.”  Nieves v. Bartlett, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 11) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															“[U]ndoubtedly,” then, the “prospect of personal liability” under the
 
First Amendment would lead “to new difficulties and expense.”  Schweiker, 487 U. S., at 425.  Federal employees “face[d with] the added risk of personal liability for decisions that they believe to be a correct response to improper [activity] would be deterred from” carrying out their duties.  Bush, 462 U. S., at 389.  We are therefore “convinced” that, in light of these costs, “Congress is in a better position to decide whether or not the public interest would be served” by imposing a damages action.  Id., at 390.

															The Court of Appeals nonetheless extended Bivens to the
 
First Amendment because, in its view, retaliation claims are “well-established,” and Boule alleges that Agent Egbert “was not carrying out official duties” when he retaliated against him.  998 F. 3d, at 391.  Neither rationale has merit.  First, just because plaintiffs often plead unlawful retaliation to establish a
 
First Amendment violation is not a reason to afford them a cause of action to sue federal officers for money damages.  If anything, that retaliation claims are common, and therefore more likely to impose “a significant expansion of Government liability,” Meyer, 510 U. S., at 486, counsels against permitting Bivens relief.

															Second, the Court of Appeals’ scope-of-duty observation does not meaningfully limit the number of potential Bivens claims or otherwise undermine the reasons for hesitation stated above.  It is easy to allege that federal employees acted beyond the scope of their authority when claiming a constitutional violation.  And, regardless, granting Bivens relief because a federal agent supposedly did not act pursuant to his law-enforcement mission “misses the point.”  Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 14).  “The question is not whether national security,” or some other governmental interest, actually “requires [the defendant’s] conduct.”  Ibid.  Instead, we “ask whether the Judiciary should alter the framework established by the political branches for addressing” any such conduct that allegedly violates the Constitution.  Ibid.  With respect to that question, the foregoing discussion shows that the Judiciary is ill equipped to alter that framework generally, and especially so when it comes to
 
First Amendment claims.

															Boule responds that any hesitation is unwarranted because this Court in Passman already identified a Bivens cause of action under allegedly similar circumstances.  There, the Court permitted a congressional staffer to sue a congressman for sex discrimination under the
 
Fifth Amendment.  See 442 U. S., at 231.  In Boule’s view, Passman, like this case, permitted a damages action to proceed even though it required the factfinder to probe a federal official’s motives for taking an adverse action against the plaintiff.

															Even assuming the factual parallels are as close as Boule claims, Passman carries little weight because it predates our current approach to implied causes of action and diverges from the prevailing framework in three important ways.  First, the Passman Court concluded that a Bivens action must be available if there is “no effective means other than the judiciary to vindicate” the purported
 
Fifth Amendment right.  442 U. S., at 243; see also Carlson, 446 U. S., at 18–19 (Congress can foreclose Bivens relief by “provid[ing] an alternative remedy which it explicitly declared to be a substitute for recovery directly under the Constitution and viewed as equally effective”).  Since then, however, we have explained that the absence of relief “does not by any means necessarily imply that courts should award money damages.”  Schweiker, 487 U. S., at 421.  Second, Passman indicated that a damages remedy is appropriate unless Congress “explicit[ly]” declares that a claimant “may not recover money damages.”  442 U. S., at 246–247 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis deleted).  Now, though, we defer to “congressional inaction” if “the design of a Government program suggests that Congress has provided what it considers adequate remedial mechanisms.”  Schweiker, 487 U. S., at 423; see also Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 14).  Third, when assessing the “special factors,” Passman asked whether a court is competent to calculate damages “without difficult questions of valuation or causation.”  442 U. S., at 245.  But today, we do not ask whether a court can determine a damages amount.  Rather, we ask whether “there are sound reasons to think Congress might doubt the efficacy or necessity of a damages remedy” at all.  Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 13).

															In short, as we explained in Ziglar, a plaintiff cannot justify a Bivens extension based on “parallel circumstances” with Bivens, Passman, or Carlson unless he also satisfies the “analytic framework” prescribed by the last four decades of intervening case law.  582 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 15–16).  Boule has failed to do so.

															IV

															Since it was decided, Bivens has had no shortage of detractors.  See, e.g., Bivens, 403 U. S., at 411 (Burger, C. J., dissenting); id., at 427 (Black, J., dissenting); id., at 430 (Blackmun, J., dissenting); Carlson, 446 U. S., at 31 (Rehnquist, J., dissenting); Malesko, 534 U. S., at 75 (Scalia, J., concurring); Hernández, 589 U. S., at ___ (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at 1); post, at 1–3 (opinion of Gorsuch, J.).  And, more recently, we have indicated that if we were called to decide Bivens today, we would decline to discover any implied causes of action in the Constitution.  See Ziglar, 582 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 11).  But, to decide the case before us, we need not reconsider Bivens itself.  Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals.

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
 Notwithstanding his defense of the Inn’s policies, Boule was recently convicted in Canadian court for engaging in human trafficking.  In December 2021, he pleaded guilty to trafficking 11 Afghanis and Syrians into Canada.  He billed each foreign national between $200 and $700 for the trip.  See Regina v. Boule, 2021 BCSC 2561, ¶¶7–11. 

2
 Congress also may preclude a claim under Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents, 
403 U.S. 388 (1971), against federal officers if it affirmatively forecloses one.  “Even in circumstances in which a Bivens remedy is generally available, an action under Bivens will be defeated if the defendant is immune from suit,” Hui v. Castaneda,

559 U.S. 799, 807 (2010), and Congress may grant such immunity as it sees fit. 

3
 Boule also argues that Agent Egbert forfeited any argument about Border Patrol’s grievance process because he did not raise the issue in the Court of Appeals.  We disagree.  Because recognizing a Bivens cause of action “is an extraordinary act that places great stress on the separation of powers,” Nestlé USA, Inc. v. Doe, 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 7), we have “a concomitant responsibility” to evaluate any grounds that counsel against Bivens relief, Oliva v. Nivar, 973 F.3d 438, 443, n. 2 (CA5 2020); see also Elhady v. Unidentified CBP Agents, 18 F. 4th 880, 884 (CA6 2021).  And, in any event, Agent Egbert has consistently claimed that alternative remedies foreclose applying Bivens in this case.  Thus, under our precedents, he is “not limited to the precise arguments [he] made below.”  Yee v. Escondido,

503 U.S. 519, 534 (1992). 


