::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1043
::decision_name::  Abitron Austria GmbH v. Hetronic International, Inc.
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1043

															_________________

															ABITRON AUSTRIA GmbH, et al., PETITIONERS
v. HETRONIC INTERNATIONAL, INC.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the tenth circuit

															[June 29, 2023]

															

															Justice Alito delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															This case requires us to decide the foreign
reach of 15 U. S. C. §1114(1)(a) and
§1125(a)(1), two provisions of the Lanham Act that prohibit
trademark infringement. Applying the presumption against
extraterritoriality, we hold that these provisions are not
extraterritorial and that they extend only to claims where the
claimed infringing use in commerce is domestic.

															I

															This case concerns a trademark dispute between
a United States company (Hetronic International, Inc.) and six
foreign parties (five companies and one individual (collectively
Abitron)).[1] Hetronic
manufactures radio remote controls for construction equipment. It
sells and services these products, which employ “a
distinctive black-and-yellow color scheme to distinguish them from
those of its competitors,” in more than 45 countries. 10 F.
4th 1016, 1024 (CA10 2021) (case below).

															Abitron originally operated as a licensed
distributor for Hetronic, but it later concluded that it held the
rights to much of Hetronic’s intellectual property, including
the marks on the products at issue in this suit. After reverse
engineering Hetronic’s products, Abitron began to sell
Hetronic-branded products that incorporated parts sourced from
third parties. Abitron mostly sold its products in Europe, but it
also made some direct sales into the United States.

															Hetronic sued Abitron in the Western District of
Oklahoma for, as relevant here, trademark violations under two
related provisions of the Lanham Act. First, it invoked
§1114(1)(a), which prohibits the unauthorized “use in
commerce [of] any reproduction . . . of a registered mark
in connection with the sale, offering for sale, distribution, or
advertising of any goods or services” when “such use is
likely to cause confusion.” Hetronic also invoked
§1125(a)(1), which prohibits the “us[e] in
commerce” of a protected mark, whether registered or not,
that “is likely to cause confusion.” Hetronic sought
damages under these provisions for Abitron’s infringing acts
worldwide.

															Throughout the proceedings below, Abitron argued
that Hetronic sought an impermissible extraterritorial application
of the Lanham Act. But the District Court rejected this argument,
and a jury later awarded Hetronic approximately $96 million in
damages related to Abitron’s global employment of
Hetronic’s marks. This amount thus included damages from
Abitron’s direct sales to consumers in the United States, its
foreign sales of products for which the foreign buyers designated
the United States as the ultimate destination, and its foreign
sales of products that did not end up in the United States. The
District Court later entered a permanent injunction preventing
Abitron from using the marks anywhere in the world. On appeal, the
Tenth Circuit narrowed the injunction to cover only certain
countries but otherwise affirmed the judgment. It concluded that
the Lanham Act extended to “all of [Abitron’s] foreign
infringing conduct” because the “impacts within the
United States [were] of a sufficient character and magnitude as
would give the United States a reasonably strong interest in the
litigation.” 10 F. 4th, at 1046.

															We granted certiorari to resolve a Circuit split
over the extraterritorial reach of the Lanham Act. 598 U. S.
___ (2023).

															II

															A

															“It is a ‘longstanding principle
of American law “that legislation of Congress, unless a
contrary intent appears, is meant to apply only within the
territorial jurisdiction of the United
States.” ’ ” Morrison v.
National Australia Bank Ltd., 561
U.S. 247, 255 (2010). We have repeatedly explained that this
principle, which we call the presumption against
extraterritoriality, refers to a “presumption against
application to conduct in the territory of another
sovereign.” Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum
Co., 569 U.S.
108, 119 (2013) (citing Morrison, 561 U. S., at
265). In other words, exclusively “ ‘[f]oreign
conduct is generally the domain of foreign law.’ ”
Microsoft Corp. v. AT&T Corp., 550 U.S.
437, 455 (2007) (alteration omitted). The presumption
“serves to avoid the international discord that can result
when U. S. law is applied to conduct in foreign
countries” and reflects the “ ‘commonsense
notion that Congress generally legislates with domestic concerns in
mind.’ ” RJR Nabisco, Inc. v. European
Community, 579 U.S. 325, 335–336 (2016).

															Applying the presumption against
extraterritoriality involves “a two-step framework.”
Id., at 337. At step one, we determine whether a provision
is extraterritorial, and that determination turns on whether
“Congress has affirmatively and unmistakably instructed
that” the provision at issue should “apply to foreign
conduct.” Id., at 335, 337; accord, Kiobel, 569
U. S., at 117 (asking whether Congress “intends federal
law to apply to conduct occurring abroad”); Nestlé
USA, Inc. v. Doe, 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip
op., at 3). If Congress has provided an unmistakable instruction
that the provision is extraterritorial, then claims alleging
exclusively foreign conduct may proceed, subject to “the
limits Congress has (or has not) imposed on the statute’s
foreign application.” RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at
337–338.

															If a provision is not extraterritorial, we move
to step two, which resolves whether the suit seeks a (permissible)
domestic or (impermissible) foreign application of the
provision.[2] To make that
determination, courts must start by identifying the
“ ‘ “focus” of congressional
concern’ ” underlying the provision at issue.
Id., at 336. “The focus of a statute is ‘the
object of its solicitude,’ which can include the conduct it
‘seeks to “regulate,” ’ as well as the
parties and interests it ‘seeks to
“protect” ’ or vindicate.”
WesternGeco LLC v. ION Geophysical Corp., 585
U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 6) (alterations
omitted).

															Step two does not end with identifying statutory
focus. We have repeatedly and explicitly held that courts must
“identif[y] ‘the statute’s
“focus” ’ and as[k] whether the
conduct relevant to that focus occurred in United States
territory.” Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (emphasis
added); accord, e.g., RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at
337. Thus, to prove that a claim involves a domestic application of
a statute, “plaintiffs must establish that ‘the
conduct relevant to the statute’s focus
occurred in the United States.’ ”
Nestlé, 593 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op.,
at 3–4) (emphasis added); see, e.g.,
WesternGeco, 585 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at
6–8) (holding that a claim was a domestic application of the
Patent Act because the infringing acts—the conduct relevant
to the focus of the provisions at issue—were committed in the
United States); Morrison, 561 U. S., at 266–267,
271–273 (concluding that a claim was a foreign application of
the Securities and Exchange Act because the
“purchase-and-sale transactions” at issue occurred
outside of the United States).

															Step two is designed to apply the presumption
against extraterritoriality to claims that involve both domestic
and foreign activity, separating the activity that matters from the
activity that does not. After all, we have long recognized that the
presumption would be meaningless if any domestic conduct could
defeat it. See Morrison, 561 U. S., at 266. Thus,
“ ‘[i]f the conduct relevant to the
statute’s focus occurred in the United States, then the case
involves a permissible domestic application’ of the statute,
‘even if other conduct occurred abroad.’ ”
WesternGeco, 585 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6)
(quoting RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 337). And “if
the relevant conduct occurred in another country, ‘then the
case involves an impermissible extraterritorial application
regardless of any other conduct that occurred in U. S.
territory.’ ” WesternGeco, 585 U. S.,
at ___ (slip op., at 6) (quoting RJR Nabisco, 579
U. S., at 337). Of course, if all the conduct
“ ‘regarding [the] violations ‘took place
outside the United States,’ ” then courts do
“not need to determine . . . the statute’s
‘focus’ ” at all. RJR Nabisco, 579
U. S., at 337. In that circumstance, there would be no
domestic conduct that could be relevant to any focus, so the focus
test has no filtering role to play. See, e.g.,
Nestlé, 593 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5);
Kiobel, 569 U. S., at 124.

															B

															With this well-established framework in mind,
the first question is whether the relevant provisions of the Lanham
Act, see §§1114(1)(a), 1125(a)(1), provide “a
clear, affirmative indication” that they apply
extraterritorially, RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at
337.[3] They do not.

															It is a “rare statute that clearly
evidences extraterritorial effect despite lacking an express
statement of extraterritoriality.” Id., at 340. Our
decision in RJR Nabisco illustrates the clarity required at
step one of our framework. There, we held that the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act could have
extraterritorial application in some circumstances because many of
its predicate offenses “plainly apply to at least some
foreign conduct” and “[a]t least one predicate
. . . applies only to conduct occurring outside
the United States.” Id., at 338.

															Here, neither provision at issue provides an
express statement of extraterritorial application or any other
clear indication that it is one of the “rare”
provisions that nonetheless applies abroad. Both simply prohibit
the use “in commerce,” under congressionally prescribed
conditions, of protected trademarks when that use “is likely
to cause confusion.” §§1114(1)(a), 1125(a)(1).

															Hetronic acknowledges that neither provision on
its own signals extraterritorial application, but it argues that
the requisite indication can be found in the Lanham Act’s
definition of “commerce,” which applies to both
provisions. Under that definition,
“ ‘commerce’ means all commerce which may
lawfully be regulated by Congress.” §1127. Hetronic
offers two reasons why this definition is sufficient to rebut the
presumption against extraterritoriality. First, it argues that the
language naturally leads to this result because Congress can
lawfully regulate foreign conduct under the Foreign Commerce
Clause. Second, it contends that extraterritoriality is confirmed
by the fact that this definition is unique in the U. S. Code
and thus differs from what it describes as
“boilerplate” definitions of
“ ‘commerce’ ” in other statutes.
Brief for Respondent 23.

															Neither reason is sufficient. When applying the
presumption, “ ‘we have repeatedly held that even
statutes . . . that expressly refer to
“foreign commerce” ’ ”
when defining “commerce” are not extraterritorial.
Morrison, 561 U. S., at 262–263; see also RJR
Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 344. This conclusion dooms
Hetronic’s argument. If an express statutory reference to
“foreign commerce” is not enough to rebut the
presumption, the same must be true of a definition of
“commerce” that refers to Congress’s authority to
regulate foreign commerce. That result does not change simply
because the provision refers to “all” commerce Congress
can regulate. See Kiobel, 569 U. S., at 118
(“[I]t is well established that generic terms like
‘any’ or ‘every’ do not rebut the
presumption against extraterritoriality”). And the mere fact
that the Lanham Act contains a substantively similar definition
that departs from the so-called “boilerplate”
definitions used in other statutes cannot justify a different
conclusion either.

															C

															Because §1114(1)(a) and §1125(a)(1)
are not extraterritorial, we must consider when claims involve
“domestic” applications of these provisions. As
discussed above, the proper test requires determining the
provision’s focus and then ascertaining whether Hetronic can
“establish that ‘the conduct relevant to [that] focus
occurred in the United States.’ ”
Nestlé, 593 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op.,
at 3–4).

															Much of the parties’ dispute in this case
misses this critical point and centers on the “focus”
of the relevant provisions without regard to the “conduct
relevant to that focus.” WesternGeco, 585 U. S.,
at ___ (slip op., at 5). Abitron contends that §1114(1)(a) and
§1125(a)(1) focus on preventing infringing use of trademarks,
while Hetronic argues that they focus both on protecting the
goodwill of mark owners and on preventing consumer confusion. The
United States as amicus curiae argues that the provisions
focus on only likely consumer confusion.

															The parties all seek support for their positions
in Steele v. Bulova Watch Co., 344 U.S.
280 (1952), but that decision is of little assistance here.
There, we considered a suit alleging that the defendant, through
activity in both the United States and Mexico, had violated the
Lanham Act by producing and selling watches stamped with a
trademark that was protected in the United States. Although we
allowed the claim to proceed, our analysis understandably did not
follow the two-step framework that we would develop decades later.
Our decision was instead narrow and factbound. It rested on the
judgment that “the facts in the record . . . when
viewed as a whole” were sufficient to rebut the presumption
against extraterritoriality. Id., at 285. In reaching this
conclusion, we repeatedly emphasized both that the defendant
committed “essential steps” in the course of his
infringing conduct in the United States and that his conduct was
likely to and did cause consumer confusion in the United
States.[4] Id., at
286–287; accord, e.g., id., at 286 (“His
operations and their effects were not confined within the
territorial limits of a foreign nation”); id., at 288
(“[P]etitioner by his ‘own deliberate acts, here and
elsewhere, brought about forbidden results within the United
States’ ” (alteration omitted)). Because
Steele implicated both domestic conduct and a likelihood of
domestic confusion, it does not tell us which one determines the
domestic applications of §1114(1)(a) and §1125(a)(1).

															With Steele put aside, then, we think the
parties’ particular debate over the “focus” of
§1114(1)(a) and §1125(a)(1) in the abstract does not
exhaust the relevant inquiry. The ultimate question regarding
permissible domestic application turns on the location of the
conduct relevant to the focus. See, e.g., RJR
Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 337. And the conduct
relevant to any focus the parties have proffered is infringing use
in commerce, as the Act defines it.

															This conclusion follows from the text and
context of §1114(1)(a) and §1125(a)(1). Both provisions
prohibit the unauthorized use “in commerce” of a
protected trademark when, among other things, that use “is
likely to cause confusion.” §§1114(1)(a),
1125(a)(1). In other words, Congress proscribed the use of a mark
in commerce under certain conditions. This conduct, to be sure,
must create a sufficient risk of confusion, but confusion is not a
separate requirement; rather, it is simply a necessary
characteristic of an offending use.[5] Because Congress has premised liability on a specific
action (a particular sort of use in commerce), that specific action
would be the conduct relevant to any focus on offer today. See,
e.g., WesternGeco, 585 U. S., at ___–___
(slip op., at 6–8).

															In sum, as this case comes to us, “use in
commerce” is the conduct relevant to any potential focus of
§1114(1)(a) and §1125(a)(1) because Congress deemed a
violation of either provision to occur each time a mark is used in
commerce in the way Congress described, with no need for any actual
confusion. Under step two of our extraterritoriality standard,
then, “use in commerce” provides the dividing line
between foreign and domestic applications of these Lanham Act
provisions.

															III

															Resisting this straightforward application of
our precedent, Justice Sotomayor concludes that step two of our
extraterritoriality framework turns solely on whether “the
object of the statute’s focus is found in, or occurs in, the
United States.” Post, at 5 (opinion concurring in
judgment). Applied to the Lanham Act, the upshot of this focus-only
standard is that any claim involving a likelihood of
consumer confusion in the United States would be a
“domestic” application of the Act. This approach is
wrong, and it would give the Lanham Act an untenably broad reach
that undermines our extraterritoriality framework.

															A

															To justify looking only to a provision’s
“focus,” Justice Sotomayor maintains that “an
application of a statute” can still be domestic “when
foreign conduct is implicated.” Post, at 7. If this
assertion simply means that a permissible domestic application can
occur even when some foreign “activity is involved in the
case,” Morrison, 561 U. S., at 266, then it is
true but misses the point. When a claim involves both domestic and
foreign activity, the question is whether “ ‘the
conduct relevant to the statute’s focus occurred in the
United States.’ ” Nestlé, 593
U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 3–4). If that
“ ‘conduct . . . occurred in the United
States, then the case involves a permissible domestic
application’ of the statute ‘even if other conduct
occurred abroad.’ ” WesternGeco, 585
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6). But “if the conduct
relevant to the focus occurred in a foreign country, then the case
involves an impermissible extraterritorial application regardless
of any other conduct that occurred in U. S. territory.”
RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 337; see, e.g.,
WesternGeco, 585 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at
6–8); Nestlé, 593 U. S., at ___–___
(slip op., at 4–5); Morrison, 561 U. S., at
266–267, 271–273.

															These holdings were not, as Justice Sotomayor
suggests, premised on this Court’s “first conclud[ing]
(or assum[ing] without deciding) that the focus of the provision at
issue was conduct.” Post, at 9. They were
unambiguously part of this Court’s articulation of the
two-step framework, and, in each case, these holdings came
before we began analyzing the focus of the provisions at
issue. For this reason, none of our cases has ever held that
statutory focus was dispositive at step two of our framework. To
the contrary, we have acknowledged that courts do “not need
to determine [a] statute’s ‘focus’ ”
when all conduct regarding the violations “ ‘took
place outside the United States.’ ” RJR
Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 337 (quoting Kiobel, 569
U. S., at 124); see, e.g., Nestlé, 593
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 5) (“To plead facts
sufficient to support a domestic application of the [Alien Tort
Statute], plaintiffs must allege more domestic conduct than general
corporate activity”). That conclusion, as well as the
decisions applying it, are inexplicable under a focus-only
standard. See supra, at 5.

															Beyond straying from established precedent, a
focus-only approach would create headaches for lower courts
required to grapple with this new approach. For statutes (like this
one) regulating conduct, the location of the conduct relevant to
the focus provides a clear signal at both steps of our two-step
framework. See RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 335, 337.
Under Justice Sotomayor’s standard, by contrast, litigants
and lower courts are told that the step-two inquiry turns on the
“ ‘focus’ ” alone, which (as we
have said) “can be ‘conduct,’
‘parties,’ or ‘interests’ that Congress
sought to protect or regulate.” Post, at 8; see
WesternGeco, 585 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6). As a
result, almost any claim involving exclusively foreign conduct
could be repackaged as a “domestic application.” And
almost any claim under a non-extraterritorial provision could be
defeated by labeling it a “foreign application,” even
if the conduct at issue was exclusively domestic. This is far from
the measure of certainty that the presumption against
extraterritoriality is designed to provide.

															B

															Justice Sotomayor’s expansive
understanding of the Lanham Act’s domestic applications
threatens to negate the presumption against extraterritoriality. In
Morrison, we warned that “the presumption against
extraterritorial application would be a craven watchdog indeed if
it retreated to its kennel whenever some domestic activity
is involved in the case.” 561 U. S., at 266. If a claim
under the Act involves a domestic application whenever particular
“ ‘effects are likely to occur in the United
States,’ ” post, at 5–6, the watchdog
is nothing more than a muzzled Chihuahua. Under such a test, it
would not even be necessary that “some” domestic
activity be involved. It would be enough for there to be merely a
likelihood of an effect in this country. Applying
that standard here would require even less connection to the United
States than some explicitly extraterritorial statutes, which must
have, at a minimum, actual domestic effects to be invoked. See,
e.g., Hartford Fire Ins. Co. v. California,
509 U.S.
764, 796 (1993) (holding that the extraterritorial provision at
issue “applies to foreign conduct that was meant to produce
and did in fact produce some substantial effect in the United
States”).

															This approach threatens
“ ‘international discord.’ ”
Kiobel, 569 U. S., at 115. In nearly all countries,
including the United States, trademark law is
territorial—i.e., “a trademark is recognized as
having a separate existence in each sovereign territory in which it
is registered or legally recognized as a mark.” 5 McCarthy
§29:1, at 29–4 to 29–5. Thus, each country is
empowered to grant trademark rights and police infringement within
its borders. See, e.g., ibid.; Ingenohl v.
Olsen & Co., 273 U.S.
541, 544 (1927); A. Bourjois & Co. v.
Katzel, 260 U.S.
689, 692 (1923).

															This principle has long been enshrined in
international law. Under the Paris Convention for the Protection of
Industrial Property, July 14, 1967, 21 U. S. T. 1583,
T. I. A. S. No. 6923, a “mark duly registered
in a country of the Union shall be regarded as independent of marks
registered in other countries of the Union,” and the seizure
of infringing goods is authorized “on importation” to a
country “where such mark or trade name is entitled to legal
protection.” Arts. 6(3), 9(1), id., at 1639, 1647. The
Convention likewise provides mechanisms for trademark holders to
secure trademark protection in other countries under the domestic
law of those countries. Arts. 2(1), 4(1)–(2), id., at
1631–1632; see also 5 McCarthy §29:1, at 29–6 to
29–7; Protocol Relating to Madrid Agreement Concerning
International Registration of Marks, June 27, 1989,
T. I. A. S. No. 03–112, S. Treaty Doc. No.
106–41 (entered into force Dec. 1, 1995) (providing
mechanisms for the extension of trademark protection to multiple
jurisdictions under domestic law). The Lanham Act, which is
designed to implement “treaties and conventions respecting
trademarks,” §1127, incorporates this territorial
premise, mandating that registration of a foreign trademark in the
United States “shall be independent of the registration in
the country of origin” and that the rights of that mark in
the United States are governed by domestic law,
§1126(f ).

															Because of the territorial nature of trademarks,
the “probability of incompatibility with the applicable laws
of other counties is so obvious that if Congress intended such
foreign application ‘it would have addressed the subject of
conflicts with foreign laws and procedures.’ ”
Morrison, 561 U. S., at 269. The use of a
mark—even confined to one country—will often have
effects that radiate to any number of countries. And when
determining exactly what form of abstract consumer confusion is
sufficient in a given case, the Judiciary would be thrust into the
unappetizing task of “navigating foreign policy disputes
belong[ing] to the political branches.” Jesner v.
Arab Bank, PLC, 584 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (Gorsuch, J.,
concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 1). If
enough countries took this approach, the trademark system would
collapse.

															This tension has not been lost on other
sovereign nations. The European Commission gravely warns this Court
against applying the Lanham Act “to acts of
infringement occurring . . . in the European
Union” and outside of the United States. Brief for European
Commission on Behalf of the European Union as Amicus Curiae
4 (emphasis added). To “police allegations of infringement
occurring in Germany,” it continues, would be an
“unseemly” act of “meddling in extraterritorial
affairs,” given “international treaty obligations that
equally bind the United States.” Id., at 28. As the
Commission and other foreign amici recognize, the
“system only works if all participating states respect their
obligations, including the limits on their power.”
Id., at 29; see also, e.g., Brief for German Law
Professors as Amici Curiae 12; Brief for Guido Westkamp as
Amicus Curiae 2–3. It thus bears repeating our
longstanding admonition that “United States law governs
domestically but does not rule the world.” Microsoft
Corp., 550 U. S., at 454.

															IV

															In sum, we hold that §1114(1)(a) and
§1125(a)(1) are not extraterritorial and that the infringing
“use in commerce” of a trademark provides the dividing
line between foreign and domestic applications of these provisions.
Under the Act, the “term ‘use in commerce’ means
the bona fide use of a mark in the ordinary course of trade,”
where the mark serves to “identify and distinguish [the mark
user’s] goods . . . and to indicate the source of
the goods.” §1127.[6] Because the proceedings below were not in accord with
this understanding of extraterritoriality, we vacate the judgment
of the Court of Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 The foreign companies are
Abitron Germany GmbH, Abitron Austria GmbH, Hetronic Germany GmbH,
Hydronic-Steuersysteme GmbH, and ABI Holding GmbH.
2
 As we have noted, courts
may take these steps in any order. See, e.g.,
Yegiazaryan v. Smagin, 599 U. S. ___,
___–___, n. 2 (2023) (slip op., at 6–7,
n. 2).
3
 Our cases sometimes refer
to whether the “statute” applies extraterritorially,
but the two-step analysis applies at the level of the particular
provision implicated. See, e.g., RJR Nabisco, 579
U. S., at 346; Morrison v. National Australia Bank
Ltd., 561 U.S.
247, 264–265 (2010).
4
 For example, we noted
that the trademark owner’s “Texas sales representative
received numerous complaints from [American] retail jewelers
. . . whose customers brought in for repair
defective” branded watches. Steele, 344 U. S., at
285; accord, Bulova Watch Co. v. Steele, 194 F.2d
567, 571 (CA5 1952).
5
 Both provisions
“refer to a ‘likelihood’ of harm, rather than a
completed harm.” Moseley v. V Secret Catalogue,
Inc., 537 U.S.
418, 432 (2003). In other words, “actual confusion is not
necessary in order to prove infringement.” Restatement
(Third) of Unfair Competition §23, at 250, Comment b
(1993); accord, id., §23, at 251, Comment d; 4
J. McCarthy, Trademarks and Unfair Competition §23:12, at
23–157 (5th ed. 2023) (McCarthy) (“ ‘[I]t is
black letter law that actual confusion need not be shown to prevail
under the Lanham Act, since . . . the Act requires only a
likelihood of confusion’ ”). Instead, the
provisions treat confusion as a means to limit liability to only
certain “bona fide use[s] of a mark in the ordinary course of
trade.” 15 U. S. C. §1127 (defining “use
in commerce”); see Patent and Trademark Office v.
Booking.com B. V., 591 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op.,
at 12) (“[A] competitor’s use does not infringe a mark
[under §1114(1)(a) and §1125(a)(1)] unless it is likely
to confuse consumers”).
6
 Justice Jackson has
proposed a further elaboration of “use in commerce,”
see post, at 1–4 (concurring opinion), but we have no
occasion to address the precise contours of that phrase
here.


