::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1599
::decision_name::  Polselli v. Internal Revenue Service
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Jackson
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1599

															_________________

															HANNA KARCHO POLSELLI, et al.,
PETITIONERS v. INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[May 18, 2023]

															

															Justice Jackson, with whom Justice Gorsuch
joins, concurring.

															The Court holds today that there is no
“legal interest” limitation on the ability of the
Internal Revenue Service to summon records without notice under 26
U. S. C. §7609(c)(2)(D)(i). I agree. I write to
emphasize two points I believe are critical to understanding that,
despite our rejection of this particular limit, the summoning power
of the IRS under that provision is circumscribed nonetheless.

															First, while the need for efficient tax
administration is certainly important and Congress has given the
agency lots of attendant authority, the default rule when
the IRS seeks information from third-party recordkeepers under this
statute is notice. The IRS can summon “any books, papers,
records, or other data” that “may be relevant or
material to” determining a taxpayer’s liability or
collecting unpaid tax. §§7602(a)(1)–(2). And it can
issue such summonses to “any . . . person
the [IRS] may deem proper.” §7602(a)(2) (emphasis
added). But, as a general matter, when the IRS issues a summons
pursuant to this authority, the agency must provide notice to
“any person . . . identified in the summons”
and to whom “any portion of [the requested] records”
relate. §7609(a)(1) (imposing notice requirement as the
“general” rule).

															Notice is not a mere formality. In the context
of tax administration, it serves an important function. Providing
notice ensures that, when the IRS comes calling, the implicated
interests are balanced. On one hand, the notice requirement permits
the IRS to summon recordkeepers for the information it needs,
without imposing overly burdensome procedural hurdles or inviting
excessive delay. See, e.g., §7609(a)(2) (allowing the
IRS to serve notice by mail); §7609(b)(2) (setting time
limitations on filing a motion to quash). On the other hand,
notice—and the concomitant right to judicial
review—empowers persons whose information is at stake to
enlist assistance from the courts, as needed, to prevent the agency
from overreaching. §7609(b); see also Tiffany Fine Arts,
Inc. v. United States, 469 U.S.
310, 320–321 (1985).

															To be sure, Congress has also recognized that
there might be situations, particularly in the collection context,
where providing notice could frustrate the IRS’s ability to
effectively administer the tax laws. For instance, upon receiving
notice that the IRS has served a summons, interested persons might
move or hide collectable assets, making the agency’s
collection efforts substantially harder.

															That is where the exception at
§7609(c)(2)(D)(i) comes in. In such circumstances,
§7609(c)(2)(D)(i) prevents notice from tipping the balance
entirely in favor of the delinquent taxpayer, at the expense of the
IRS. But, depending on whose information the summons seeks (for
example, an innocent third party’s), or the nature of the
requested records, it might not be reasonable to conclude that
providing notice would frustrate the IRS’s tax-collection
goal. And when that is the case, it might unjustifiably tip the
scales in the other direction (i.e., entirely in the
IRS’s favor) to allow the IRS to proceed without notice just
because its delinquency resolution process has entered the
collection phase.

															In other words, the statute’s balancing of
interests indicates that Congress did not give the IRS a blank
check, so to speak, to do with as it will in the collection arena.
Thus, in my view, courts must not interpret §7609(c)(2)(D)(i)
as if that agency has been gifted with boundless authority.
Treating the IRS’s power to issue unnoticed summonses as
effectively unlimited permits the exception to devour the rule,
upsetting the statute’s calibration.

															Second, and similarly, it is hard for me
to believe that, in the context of a default-notice system,
Congress would intentionally insert an exception that could so
dramatically upend its objectives. Read too broadly,
§7609(c)(2)(D)(i) would presumably permit the IRS to summon
anyone’s records without notice, no matter how broad
the summons is or how potentially intrusive that records request
might be, so long as the agency thinks doing so would provide a
clue to the location of a delinquent taxpayer’s assets.

															Imagine, for example, a delinquent taxpayer who
routinely visits his local mom-and-pop dry cleaning business.
Imagine also that the IRS suspects this delinquent taxpayer
sometimes uses credit cards with different names. Under a broad
reading of §7609(c)(2)(D)(i), I suppose the IRS could issue a
summons to the dry cleaner’s bank without notice to the dry
cleaner, seeking years of the dry cleaner’s financial
records. The agency might believe that having the entirety of that
business’s financial information would aid its tax-collection
efforts—even though the taxpayer has no known financial
interest in that business, or any special relationship with the
business’s owners—because knowing what methods of
payment (or aliases) the taxpayer regularly uses could help the
agency track down the taxpayer’s assets. And it might intend
to sift through the requested haystack of the business’s bank
records in order to find the needle of the taxpayer’s
transaction information.

															For their part, the dry cleaner’s owners
would probably look askance at having all of their financial
records requisitioned and reviewed in this manner. But, without
notice, they cannot object to the summons’s scope or work
with the IRS (and the court) to provide the records that most
likely involve the delinquent taxpayer or his aliases. The owners
would have to rely on the recipient of the summons (the bank) to
articulate their privacy concerns and negotiate with the agency.
Yet there is no guarantee under the statute that the bank will do
that, and even if it does, how is the bank supposed to identify
which credit cards may have been used by the delinquent taxpayer
over a multiyear period?

															This situation seems to me to be the kind of
circumstance in which Congress would not have intended to prevent
the dry cleaning business from attempting to protect its interests.
And, in my view, reading §7609 to require notice—and the
potential for judicial oversight—in relation to such
attenuated tax-collection activities is entirely consistent with
the statutory scheme. Conversely, allowing the agency to sidestep
oversight of its broad summons power by not providing notice in
these kinds of situations undermines the important aims of the
default-notice system.

															The bottom line is this: As I read the statute,
the IRS is not necessarily exempt from notice obligations any time
a tax-delinquency matter enters the collection phase. Rather, the
exception in §7609(c)(2)(D)(i) merely reflects
Congress’s determination that, in some situations, requiring
the agency to provide notice in connection with its tax-collection
efforts would undermine the balance that the statute strikes with
its default-notice requirement. Consequently, I believe that both
courts and the IRS itself must be ever vigilant when determining
when notice is not required. Doing so properly involves a
careful fact-based inquiry that might well vary from case to case,
depending on the scope and nature of the information the IRS
seeks.

													
