::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1168
::decision_name::  Mallory v. Norfolk Southern Railway Co.
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Jackson
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1168

															_________________

															ROBERT MALLORY, PETITIONER v. NORFOLK
SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
pennsylvania, eastern district

															[June 27, 2023]

															

															Justice Jackson, concurring.

															I agree with the Court that this case is
straightforward under our precedents. I write separately to say
that, for me, what makes it so is not just our ruling in
Pennsylvania Fire Ins. Co. of Philadelphia v. Gold Issue
Mining & Milling Co., 243 U.S.
93 (1917). I also consider our ruling in Insurance Corp. of
Ireland v. Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee, 456 U.S.
694 (1982), to be particularly instructive.

															In Insurance Corp. of Ireland, this Court
confirmed a simple truth: The due process “requirement of
personal jurisdiction” is an individual, waivable right.
Id., at 703. The requirement exists, we said, to ensure that
the forum State has sufficient contacts with a defendant, such that
“ ‘the maintenance of the suit [does] not offend
“traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.” ’ ” Ibid. (quoting
International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S.
310, 319 (1945)). We noted further that the interstate
federalism concerns informing that right are “ultimately a
function of the individual liberty interest” that this due
process right preserves. 456 U. S., at 703, n. 10.
Because the personal-jurisdiction right belongs to the defendant,
however, we explained that a defendant can choose to “subject
[itself] to powers from which [it] may otherwise be
protected.” Ibid. When that happens, a State can
exercise jurisdiction over the defendant consistent with the Due
Process Clause, even if our personal-jurisdiction cases would
normally preclude the State from subjecting a defendant to its
authority under the circumstances presented. Ibid.

															Waiver is thus a critical feature of the
personal-jurisdiction analysis. And there is more than one way to
waive personal-jurisdiction rights, as Insurance Corp. of
Ireland also clarified. A defendant can waive its rights by
explicitly or implicitly consenting to litigate future disputes in
a particular State’s courts. Id., at 703–704. A
defendant might also fail to follow specific procedural rules, and
end up waiving the right to object to personal jurisdiction as a
consequence. Id., at 705–706. Or a defendant can
voluntarily invoke certain benefits from a State that are
conditioned on submitting to the State’s jurisdiction.
Id., at 704 (citing Adam v. Saenger, 303 U.S.
59, 67–68 (1938)).

															Regardless of whether a defendant relinquishes
its personal-jurisdiction rights expressly or constructively, the
basic teaching of Insurance Corp. of Ireland is the same:
When a defendant chooses to engage in behavior that
“amount[s] to a legal submission to the jurisdiction of the
court,” the Due Process Clause poses no barrier to the
court’s exercise of personal jurisdiction. 456 U. S., at
704–705.

															In my view, there is no question that Norfolk
Southern waived its personal-jurisdiction rights here. As the Court
ably explains, Norfolk Southern agreed to register as a foreign
corporation in Pennsylvania in exchange for the ability to conduct
business within the Commonwealth and receive associated benefits.
Ante, at 10–11; see also post, at 2 (Alito, J.,
concurring in part and concurring in judgment). Moreover, when
Norfolk Southern made that decision, the jurisdictional
consequences of registration were clear. See 42 Pa. Cons. Stat.
§5301(a)(2)(i) (1981) (expressly linking “qualification
as a foreign corporation under the laws of th[e]
Commonwealth” to the “exercise [of] general personal
jurisdiction”); 266 A.3d 542, 569 (Pa. 2021) (acknowledging
that “foreign corporations are given reasonable notice”
of the jurisdictional implications of registration).

															Nor was Norfolk Southern compelled to register
and submit itself to the general jurisdiction of Pennsylvania
courts simply because its trains passed through the Commonwealth.
See, e.g., 15 Pa. Cons. Stat. §403(a)(11) (2014); 1972
Pa. Laws pp. 1154–1155. Registration is required when
corporations seek to conduct local business in a
“regular, systematic, or extensive” way. 266 A. 3d, at
562–563 (internal quotation marks omitted). Norfolk Southern
apparently deemed registration worthwhile and opted in.

															Under Insurance Corp. of Ireland, the due
process question that this case presents is easily answered. Having
made the choice to register and do business in Pennsylvania despite
the jurisdictional consequences (and having thereby voluntarily
relinquished the due process rights our general-jurisdiction
precedents afford), Norfolk Southern cannot be heard to complain
that its due process rights are violated by having to defend itself
in Pennsylvania’s courts. Whether Pennsylvania could have
asserted general jurisdiction over Norfolk Southern absent
any waiver, see post, at 3–4 (Barrett, J.,
dissenting), is beside the point.

															In other areas of the law, we permit States to
ask defendants to waive individual rights and safeguards. See,
e.g., Brady v. United States, 397 U.S.
742, 748 (1970) (allowing plea bargains to waive a
defendant’s trial rights and the right against
self-incrimination); Barker v. Wingo, 407 U.S.
514, 529, 536 (1972) (waiver of speedy trial rights). Moreover,
when defendants do so, we respect that waiver decision and hold
them to that choice, even though the government could not have
otherwise bypassed the rules and procedures those rights protect.
Insisting that our general-jurisdiction precedents preclude
Pennsylvania from subjecting corporations to suit within its
borders—despite their waiver of the protections those
precedents entail—puts the personal-jurisdiction requirement
on a pedestal. But there is nothing “unique about the
requirement of personal jurisdiction [that] prevents it from being
. . . waived like other [individual] rights.”
Insurance Corp. of Ireland, 456 U. S., at 706.

															In short, Insurance Corp. of Ireland
makes clear that the personal-jurisdiction requirement is an
individual, waivable right, and I agree with the Court that Norfolk
Southern waived that right by choosing to register as a foreign
corporation under the circumstances presented in this case.
Therefore, I perceive no due process problem with the registration
statute at issue here.

													
