::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1450
::decision_name::  Turkiye Halk Bankasi A.S. v. United States
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1450

															_________________

															TURKIYE HALK BANKASI A. S., aka HALKBANK,
PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[April 19, 2023]

															Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Alito
joins, concurring in part and dissenting in part.

															For almost a half century, judges have known
where to turn for guidance when deciding whether a foreign
sovereign is susceptible to suit in an American court:
Congress’s directions in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act
of 1976 (FSIA), 28 U. S. C. §1602
et seq. Sometimes the FSIA authorizes American courts
to hear cases against foreign sovereigns; sometimes the statute
immunizes foreign sovereigns from suit. Today, however, the Court
holds that the FSIA’s rules apply only in civil cases.
To decide whether a foreign sovereign is susceptible to
criminal prosecution, the Court says, federal judges must
consult the common law. Respectfully, I disagree. The same statute
we routinely use to analyze sovereign immunity in civil cases
applies equally in criminal ones.

															I

															I begin from common ground. Congress has
vested federal courts with subject-matter jurisdiction over cases
involving “offenses against the laws of the United
States.” 18 U. S. C. §3231. The Court holds
that this statute permits federal courts to hear cases alleging
offenses committed by foreign sovereigns. I agree. As the Court
explains, §3231’s language grants subject-matter
jurisdiction in broad terms without regard to the nature of the
defendant; nor are we free to “graft an atextual limitation
onto” the law that would exempt foreign sovereigns from its
reach. Ante, at 3. Of course, Türkiye Halk Bankasi
(Halkbank) asserts that it is a sovereign entity and, as such,
enjoys immunity from prosecution. But that does not change a thing.
Generally, questions about sovereign immunity do not go to a
court’s subject-matter jurisdiction (something a court must
consider in every case even if the parties do not). Instead,
questions of sovereign immunity usually go to a court’s
personal jurisdiction over a particular defendant. And as with
other personal-jurisdiction defenses, a sovereign may waive its
immunity and consent to judicial proceedings if it wishes. See
PennEast Pipeline Co. v. New Jersey, 594 U. S.
___, ___ (2021) (Gorsuch, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 2).

															From that common ground, however, I part ways
with the Court. Like the Second Circuit, I would analyze
Halkbank’s assertion of sovereign immunity under the terms of
the FSIA. Start with 28 U. S. C. §1604, which sets
forth the FSIA’s general immunity rule. It provides in
relevant part that “a foreign state shall be immune from the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States and of the States
except as provided in sections 1605 to 1607 of this chapter.”
Elsewhere, the statute defines a “foreign state” to
include an “agency or instrumentality of a foreign
state.” §1603(a). And the statute defines an
“agency or instrumentality” to include any
“separate legal person,” such as a corporation, that is
an “organ” or “subdivision” of a foreign
state and majority owned by a foreign state.
§1603(b)(1)–(2).

															Applying those rules here yields a ready answer.
Halkbank is a corporation that is majority-owned by the government
of Turkey. 16 F. 4th 336, 349 (CA2 2021). Accordingly, it qualifies
as a foreign state entitled to immunity from suit under §1604
unless one of the exceptions provided in
§§1605–1607 applies. And, it turns out, one such
exception does apply. Section 1605(a)(2) instructs that a foreign
sovereign is not entitled to immunity when “the action is
based upon” certain “commercial activity” in or
affecting the United States. In this case, the indictment
sufficiently alleges that Halkbank has engaged in just those kinds
of commercial activities. See No. 15 Cr. 867 (SDNY, Oct. 1, 2020),
App. to Pet. for Cert. 36a–38a. Of course, this case comes to
us on a motion to dismiss the indictment, and the question of
immunity may be revisited as the case proceeds. But for now,
nothing in the law precludes this suit, just as the Second Circuit
held.

															That the FSIA tells us all we need to know to
resolve the sovereign immunity question in this case can come as no
surprise. This Court has long acknowledged that “the [FSIA]
must be applied by the district courts in every action against a
foreign sovereign.” Verlinden B. V. v. Central
Bank of Nigeria, 461 U.S.
480, 493 (1983). As we have put it, “any sort of immunity
defense made by a foreign sovereign in an American court must stand
on the Act’s text. Or it must fall.” Republic of
Argentina v. NML Capital, Ltd., 573
U.S. 134, 141–142 (2014). It’s a rule that follows
directly from the statutory text because “Congress
established [in the FSIA] a comprehensive framework for resolving
any claim of sovereign immunity.” Republic of Austria
v. Altmann, 541 U.S.
677, 699 (2004).

															II

															Despite all this, the Court declines to apply
the FSIA’s directions governing foreign sovereign immunity.
It holds that the statute’s general immunity rule in
§1604 speaks only to civil disputes. Any question about
a foreign sovereign’s immunity from criminal
prosecution, the Court insists, must therefore be resolved under
common-law principles. Ante, at 7, 15. In aid of its
conclusion, the Court offers three principal arguments. But to my
mind, none packs the punch necessary to displace the plain
statutory text.

															First, the Court points to 28 U. S. C.
§1330. That provision grants federal courts subject-matter
jurisdiction over civil cases against foreign sovereigns when one
of the exceptions provided in §§1605–1607 applies.
From this grant of civil jurisdiction, the Court reasons, it is a
“natural inference” that §1604’s immunity
rule must apply only in civil cases. Ante, at 11. More
naturally, however, it seems to me that any inference from
§1330 runs the other way. Section 1330 shows that when
Congress wanted to limit its attention to civil suits, it knew how
to do so. Section 1604 contains no similar language restricting its
scope to civil disputes. Instead, it speaks far more broadly,
holding that a foreign state “shall be immune” unless a
statutorily specified exception applies. Normally, when Congress
includes limiting language in one section of a law but excludes it
from another, we understand the difference in language to convey a
difference in meaning (expressio unius est exclusio
alterius). See, e.g., Bittner v. United
States, 598 U.S. 85, 94 (2023); Department of Homeland
Security v. MacLean, 574 U.S.
383, 391 (2015). The Court’s interpretation of the FSIA
defies this traditional rule of statutory construction. Today, the
Court does to §1604 exactly what it recognizes we may not do
to §3231—grafting an atextual limitation onto the
law’s unambiguous terms (in this instance, adding a
“civil”-only restriction).

															Second, the Court suggests we should read
§1604 as affording immunity only in civil cases because
§1605’s exceptions apply only in civil cases.
Ante, at 11. But here both the premise and the conclusion
seem to me mistaken. If some of §1605’s exceptions apply
only in civil cases, others speak more expansively. Take the
exception relevant here. The commercial-activities exception found
in §1605(a)(2) denies sovereign immunity “in any
case . . . in which the action is based upon a
commercial activity carried on in the United States by the foreign
state.” (Emphasis added). Nowhere does this exception
distinguish between civil and criminal actions. Besides, even if
the Court’s premise were correct and §1605’s
exceptions (somehow) applied only in civil actions, what would that
prove? It might simply mean that Congress wanted a more generous
immunity from criminal proceedings than civil suits.

															Finally, the Court points to the FSIA’s
provisions regulating the venue and removal of civil actions
against foreign sovereigns. Ante, at 7–8 (discussing
§§1391(f ) and 1441(d)). But once more, it seems to
me this shows only that Congress knew how to speak specifically to
civil suits when it wished to do so. Congress may have had reason
to be especially concerned about the venue for civil suits too,
given that almost all efforts to hale foreign sovereigns into
U. S. courts have involved civil claims. Indeed, the parties
and their amici struggled to find examples of criminal
charges brought against foreign sovereigns either before or after
the FSIA’s adoption—not only in the United States, but
in any country. Compare Brief for United States 25–26 with
Reply Brief 7–9. I might be willing to spot the Court that
the venue and removal provisions could help illuminate
§1604’s scope if that statute were ambiguous. But no one
suggests that we have anything like that here. Section 1604 is as
clear as a bell and we must abide by its direction that foreign
sovereigns “shall be immune” absent some express
statutory exception.

															III

															After declaring that the FSIA applies only to
civil suits, the Court holds that “the common law”
controls the disposition of any claim of foreign sovereign immunity
in criminal cases. Ante, at 15. Yet rather than decide
whether the common law shields Halkbank from this suit, the Court
shunts the case back to the Second Circuit to figure that out. All
of which leaves litigants and our lower court colleagues with an
unenviable task, both in this case and others sure to emerge. Many
thorny questions lie down the “common law” path and the
Court fails to supply guidance on how to resolve any of them.

															Right out of the gate, lower courts will have to
decide between two very different approaches. One option is to
defer to the Executive Branch’s judgment on whether to grant
immunity to a foreign sovereign—an approach sometimes
employed by federal courts in the years immediately preceding the
FSIA’s adoption. The other option is for a court to make the
immunity decision looking to customary international law and other
sources. Compare Brief for United States 21–26 with Brief for
Professor Ingrid (Wuerth) Brunk et al. as Amici Curiae
6–25.

															Whichever path a court chooses, more questions
will follow. The first option—deferring to the
Executive—would seem to sound in separation-of-powers
concerns. But does this mean that courts should not be involved in
making immunity determinations at all? And what about the fact that
the strong deference cases didn’t appear until the 20th
century; were courts acting unconstitutionally before then? If not,
should we be concerned that deference to the Executive’s
immunity decisions risks relegating courts to the status of potted
plants, inconsistent with their duty to say what the law is in the
cases that come before them? See, e.g., Brief for Professor
Ingrid (Wuerth) Brunk et al. as Amici Curiae
17–21.

															The second option—applying customary
international law—comes with its own puzzles. If the briefing
before us proves anything, it is that customary international law
supplies no easy answer to the question whether a foreign sovereign
enjoys immunity from criminal prosecution. Compare Brief for
Professor Roger O’Keefe as Amicus Curiae 11–16
with Brief for Mark B. Feldman et al. as Amici Curiae
12–13. Nor is it even altogether clear on what authority
federal courts might develop and apply customary international law.
Article VI of the Constitution does not list customary
international law as federal law when it enumerates sources of
“the supreme Law of the Land.” And Article I vests
Congress rather than the Judiciary with the power to “define
and punish . . . Offences against the Law of
Nations.” §8, cl. 10. See Sosa v.
Alvarez-Machain, 542 U.S.
692, 739–742 (2004) (Scalia, J., concurring in part and
concurring in judgment); Jesner v. Arab Bank, PLC,
584 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2018) (Gorsuch, J., concurring
in part and concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 4–5);
Nestlé USA, Inc. v. Doe, 593 U. S. ___,
___ (2021) (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (slip op., at 3).

															Perhaps Article III incorporated customary
international law into federal common law. But since Erie
R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U.S.
64 (1938), federal courts have largely disclaimed the power to
develop federal common law outside of a few reserved areas. See
Sosa, 542 U. S., at 740–742 (opinion of Scalia,
J.). And whether customary international law survives as a form of
federal common law after Erie is a matter of considerable
debate among scholars. Compare C. Bradley & J. Goldsmith,
Customary International Law as Federal Common Law: A Critique of
the Modern Position, 110 Harv. L. Rev. 815 (1997), with H. Koh, Is
International Law Really State Law?, 111 Harv. L. Rev. 1824
(1998). Must lower courts confront this long-running debate to
resolve a claim of foreign sovereign immunity in criminal cases?
And if there is no federal law at work here that might apply under
the Supremacy Clause, only general common-law principles, what
constraints remain on state prosecutions of foreign
sovereigns?

															*

															Today’s decision overcomplicates the law
for no good reason. In the FSIA, Congress supplied us with simple
rules for resolving this case and others like it. Respectfully, I
would follow those straightforward directions to the same
straightforward conclusion the Second Circuit reached: This case
against Halkbank may proceed.

													
