::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1086
::decision_name::  Allen v. Milligan
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 21–1086 and 21–1087

															_________________

															WES ALLEN, ALABAMA SECRETARY OF STATE,
et al., APPELLANTS

															21–1086v.

															EVAN MILLIGAN, et al.

															on appeal from the united states district
court for the northern district of alabama

															

															WES ALLEN, ALABAMA SECRETARY OF STATE,
et al., PETITIONERS

															21–1087v.

															MARCUS CASTER, et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the
united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[June 8, 2023]

															Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of
the Court, except as to Part III–B–1.[1]*

															In January 2022, a three-judge District Court
sitting in Alabama preliminarily enjoined the State from using the
districting plan it had recently adopted for the 2022 congressional
elections, finding that the plan likely violated Section 2 of the
Voting Rights Act, 52 U. S. C. §10301. This Court
stayed the District Court’s order pending further review. 595
U. S. ___ (2022). After conducting that review, we now
affirm.

															I

															A

															Shortly after the Civil War, Congress passed
and the States ratified the Fifteenth Amendment, providing that
“[t]he right of citizens of the United States to vote shall
not be denied or abridged . . . on account of race,
color, or previous condition of servitude.” U. S.
Const., Amdt. 15, §1. In the century that followed, however,
the Amendment proved little more than a parchment promise. Jim Crow
laws like literacy tests, poll taxes, and “good-morals”
requirements abounded, South Carolina v.
Katzenbach, 383 U.S.
301, 312–313 (1966), “render[ing] the right to vote
illusory for blacks,” Northwest Austin Municipal Util.
Dist. No. One v. Holder, 557 U.S.
193, 220–221 (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment
in part and dissenting in part). Congress stood up to little of it;
“[t]he first century of congressional enforcement of the
[Fifteenth] Amendment . . . can only be regarded as a
failure.” Id., at 197 (majority opinion).

															That changed in 1965. Spurred by the Civil
Rights movement, Congress enacted and President Johnson signed into
law the Voting Rights Act. 79Stat. 437, as amended, 52
U. S. C. §10301 et seq. The Act
“create[d] stringent new remedies for voting
discrimination,” attempting to forever “banish the
blight of racial discrimination in voting.”
Katzenbach, 383 U. S., at 308. By 1981, in only sixteen
years’ time, many considered the VRA “the most
successful civil rights statute in the history of the
Nation.” S. Rep. No. 97–417, p. 111 (1982) (Senate
Report).

															These cases concern Section 2 of that Act. In
its original form, “§2 closely tracked the language of
the [Fifteenth] Amendment” and, as a result, had little
independent force. Brnovich v. Democratic National
Committee, 594 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at
3).[2] Our leading case on
§2 at the time was City of Mobile v. Bolden,
which involved a claim by black voters that the City’s
at-large election system effectively excluded them from
participating in the election of city commissioners. 446 U.S.
55 (1980). The commission had three seats, black voters
comprised one-third of the City’s population, but no
black-preferred candidate had ever won election.

															The Court ruled against the plaintiffs. The
Fifteenth Amendment—and thus §2—prohibits States
from acting with a “racially discriminatory motivation”
or an “invidious purpose” to discriminate. Id.,
at 61–65 (plurality opinion). But it does not prohibit laws
that are discriminatory only in effect. Ibid. The
Mobile plaintiffs could “register and vote without
hindrance”—“their freedom to vote ha[d] not been
denied or abridged by anyone.” Id., at 65. The fact
that they happened to lose frequently was beside the point. Nothing
the City had done “purposeful[ly] exclu[ded]” them
“from participati[ng] in the election process.”
Id., at 64.

															Almost immediately after it was decided,
Mobile “produced an avalanche of criticism, both in
the media and within the civil rights community.” T. Boyd
& S. Markman, The 1982 Amendments to the Voting Rights Act: A
Legislative History, 40 Wash. & Lee L. Rev. 1347, 1355 (1983)
(Boyd & Markman). The New York Times wrote that the decision
represented “the biggest step backwards in civil rights to
come from the Nixon Court.” N. Y. Times, Apr. 23, 1980,
p. A22. And the Washington Post described Mobile as a
“major defeat for blacks and other minorities fighting
electoral schemes that exclude them from office.” Washington
Post, Apr. 23, 1980, p. A5. By focusing on discriminatory intent
and ignoring disparate effect, critics argued, the Court had
abrogated “the standard used by the courts to determine
whether [racial] discrimination existed . . . :
Whether such discrimination existed.” It’s Results That
Count, Philadelphia Inquirer, Mar. 3, 1982, p. 8–A.

															But Mobile had its defenders, too. In
their view, abandoning the intent test in favor of an effects test
would inevitably require a focus on
proportionality—wherever a minority group won fewer
seats in the legislature than its share of the population, the
charge could be made that the State law had a discriminatory
effect. That, after all, was the type of claim brought in
Mobile. But mandating racial proportionality in elections
was regarded by many as intolerable. Doing so, wrote Senator Orrin
Hatch in the Washington Star, would be “strongly resented by
the American public.” Washington Star, Sept. 30, 1980,
p. A–9. The Wall Street Journal offered similar
criticism. An effects test would generate “more, not less,
racial and ethnic polarization.” Wall Street Journal, Jan.
19, 1982, p. 28.

															This sharp debate arrived at Congress’s
doorstep in 1981. The question whether to broaden §2 or keep
it as is, said Hatch—by then Chairman of the Senate
Subcommittee before which §2 would be
debated—“involve[d] one of the most substantial
constitutional issues ever to come before this body.” 2
Hearings before the Subcommittee on the Constitution of the Senate
Committee on the Judiciary, 97th Cong., 2d Sess., pt. 1, p. 1
(1982).

															Proceedings in Congress mirrored the
disagreement that had developed around the country. In April 1981,
Congressman Peter W. Rodino, Jr.—longtime chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee—introduced a bill to amend the VRA,
proposing that the words “to deny or abridge” in
§2 be replaced with the phrase “in a manner which
results in a denial or abridgement.” H. R. 3112,
97th Cong., 1st Sess., 2 (as introduced) (emphasis added). This was
the effects test that Mobile’s detractors sought.

															But those wary of proportionality were not far
behind. Senator Hatch argued that the effects test “was
intelligible only to the extent that it approximated a standard of
proportional representation by race.” Boyd & Markman
1392. The Attorney General had the same concern. The effects test
“would be triggered whenever election results did not mirror
the population mix of a particular community,” he wrote,
producing “essentially a quota system for electoral
politics.” N. Y. Times, Mar. 27, 1982, p. 23.

															The impasse was not resolved until late April
1982, when Senator Bob Dole proposed a compromise. Boyd &
Markman 1414. Section 2 would include the effects test that many
desired but also a robust disclaimer against proportionality.
Seeking to navigate any tension between the two, the Dole Amendment
borrowed language from a Fourteenth Amendment case of ours,
White v. Regester, 412 U.S.
755 (1973), which many in Congress believed would allow courts
to consider effects but avoid proportionality. The standard for
liability in voting cases, White explained, was whether
“the political processes leading to nomination and election
were not equally open to participation by the group in
question—[in] that its members had less opportunity than did
other residents in the district to participate in the political
processes and to elect legislators of their choice.”
Id., at 766.

															The Dole compromise won bipartisan support and,
on June 18, the Senate passed the 1982 amendments by an
overwhelming margin, 85–8. Eleven days later, President
Reagan signed the Act into law. The amended §2 reads as
follows:

															“(a) No voting qualification or
prerequisite to voting or standard, practice, or procedure shall be
imposed or applied by any State or political subdivision in a
manner which results in a denial or abridgement of the right of any
citizen of the United States to vote on account of race or color
. . . as provided in subsection (b).

															“(b) A violation of subsection (a) is
established if, based on the totality of circumstances, it is shown
that the political processes leading to nomination or election in
the State or political subdivision are not equally open to
participation by members of a class of citizens . . . in
that its members have less opportunity than other members of the
electorate to participate in the political process and to elect
representatives of their choice. The extent to which members of a
protected class have been elected to office in the State or
political subdivision is one circumstance which may be considered:
Provided, That nothing in this section establishes a right
to have members of a protected class elected in numbers equal to
their proportion in the population.” 52 U. S. C.
§10301.

															B

															For the first 115 years following
Reconstruction, the State of Alabama elected no black
Representatives to Congress. See Singleton v.
Merrill, 582 F. Supp. 3d 924, 947 (ND Ala. 2022)
( per curiam). In 1992, several plaintiffs sued
the State, alleging that it had been impermissibly diluting the
votes of black Alabamians in violation of §2. See Wesch
v. Hunt, 
785 F. Supp. 1491, 1493 (SD Ala.). The lawsuit produced a
majority-black district in Alabama for the first time in decades.
Id., at 1499. And that fall, Birmingham lawyer Earl Hillard
became the first black Representative from Alabama since 1877. 582
F. Supp. 3d, at 947.

															Alabama’s congressional map has
“remained remarkably similar” after Wesch. Brief
for Appellants in No. 21–1086 etc., p. 9 (Brief for
Alabama). The map contains seven congressional districts, each with
a single representative. See Supp. App. 205–211; 582
F. Supp. 3d, at 951. District 1 encompasses the Gulf Coast
region in the southwest; District 2—known as the Wiregrass
region—occupies the southeast; District 3 covers the
eastern-central part of the State; Districts 4 and 5 stretch
width-wise across the north, with the latter layered atop the
former; District 6 is right in the State’s middle; and
District 7 spans the central west. Id., at 951.

															In 2020, the decennial census revealed that
Alabama’s population had grown by 5.1%. See 1 App. 86. A
group of plaintiffs led by Alabama legislator Bobby Singleton sued
the State, arguing that the existing congressional map was
malapportioned and racially gerrymandered in violation of the Equal
Protection Clause. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 938–939. While
litigation was proceeding, the Alabama Legislature’s
Committee on Reapportionment began creating a new districting map.
Ibid. Although the prior decade’s population growth
did not change the number of seats that Alabama would receive in
the House, the growth had been unevenly distributed across the
State, and the existing map was thus out of date.

															To solve the problem, the State turned to
experienced mapmaker Randy Hinaman, who had created several
districting maps that Alabama used over the past 30 years.
Id., at 947–948. The starting point for Hinaman was
the then-existing 2011 congressional map, itself a product of the
2001 map that Hinaman had also created. Civ. No. 21–1530 (ND
Ala.), ECF Doc. 70–2, pp. 40, 93–94; see also 582
F. Supp. 3d, at 950. Hinaman worked to adjust the 2011 map in
accordance with the redistricting guidelines set by the
legislature’s Reapportionment Committee. Id., at
948–950; 1 App. 275. Those guidelines prioritized population
equality, contiguity, compactness, and avoiding dilution of
minority voting strength. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1035–1036.
They also encouraged, as a secondary matter, avoiding incumbent
pairings, respecting communities of interest, minimizing the number
of counties in each district, and preserving cores of existing
districts. Id., at 1036–1037.

															The resulting map Hinaman drew largely resembled
the 2011 map, again producing only one district in which black
voters constituted a majority of the voting age population. Supp.
App. 205–211. The Alabama Legislature enacted Hinaman’s
map under the name HB1. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 935,
950–951. Governor Ivey signed HB1 into law on November 4,
2021. Id., at 950.

															C

															Three groups of plaintiffs brought suit
seeking to stop Alabama’s Secretary of State from conducting
congressional elections under HB1. The first group was led by Dr.
Marcus Caster, a resident of Washington County, who challenged HB1
as invalid under §2. Id., at 934–935, 980. The
second group, led by Montgomery County resident Evan Milligan,
brought claims under §2 and the Equal Protection Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Id., at 939–940, 966. Finally,
the Singleton plaintiffs, who had previously sued to enjoin
Alabama’s 2011 congressional map, amended their complaint to
challenge HB1 as an impermissible racial gerrymander under the
Equal Protection Clause. Id., at 938–939.

															A three-judge District Court was convened,
comprised of Circuit Judge Marcus and District Judges Manasco and
Moorer. The Singleton and Milligan actions were
consolidated before the three-judge Court for purposes of
preliminary injunction proceedings, while Caster proceeded
before Judge Manasco on a parallel track. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at
934–935. A preliminary injunction hearing began on January 4,
2022, and concluded on January 12. Id., at 943. In that
time, the three-judge District Court received live testimony from
17 witnesses, reviewed more than 1000 pages of briefing and upwards
of 350 exhibits, and considered arguments from the 43 different
lawyers who had appeared in the litigation. Id., at
935–936. After reviewing that extensive record, the Court
concluded in a 227-page opinion that the question whether HB1
likely violated §2 was not “a close one.” It did.
Id., at 1026. The Court thus preliminarily enjoined Alabama
from using HB1 in forthcoming elections. Id., at
936.[3]

															Four days later, on January 28, Alabama moved in
this Court for a stay of the District Court’s injunction.
This Court granted a stay and scheduled the cases for argument,
noting probable jurisdiction in Milligan and granting
certiorari before judgment in Caster. 595 U. S. ___
(2022).

															II

															The District Court found that plaintiffs
demonstrated a reasonable likelihood of success on their claim that
HB1 violates §2. We affirm that determination.

															A

															For the past forty years, we have evaluated
claims brought under §2 using the three-part framework
developed in our decision Thornburg v. Gingles,
478 U.S.
30 (1986). Gingles concerned a challenge to North
Carolina’s multimember districting scheme, which allegedly
diluted the vote of its black citizens. Id., at 34–36.
The case presented the first opportunity since the 1982 amendments
to address how the new §2 would operate.

															Gingles began by describing what §2
guards against. “The essence of a §2 claim,” the
Court explained, “is that a certain electoral law, practice,
or structure interacts with social and historical conditions to
cause an inequality in the opportunities enjoyed by black and white
voters.” Id., at 47. That occurs where an
“electoral structure operates to minimize or cancel
out” minority voters’ “ability to elect their
preferred candidates.” Id., at 48. Such a risk is
greatest “where minority and majority voters consistently
prefer different candidates” and where minority voters are
submerged in a majority voting population that “regularly
defeat[s]” their choices. Ibid.

															To succeed in proving a §2 violation under
Gingles, plaintiffs must satisfy three
“preconditions.” Id., at 50. First, the
“minority group must be sufficiently large and
[geographically] compact to constitute a majority in a reasonably
configured district.” Wisconsin Legislature v.
Wisconsin Elections Comm’n, 595 U. S. ___, ___
(2022) (per curiam) (slip op., at 3) (citing Gingles,
478 U. S., at 46–51). A district will be reasonably
configured, our cases explain, if it comports with traditional
districting criteria, such as being contiguous and reasonably
compact. See Alabama Legislative Black Caucus v.
Alabama, 575 U.S. 254, 272 (2015). “Second, the
minority group must be able to show that it is politically
cohesive.” Gingles, 478 U. S., at 51. And
third, “the minority must be able to demonstrate that the
white majority votes sufficiently as a bloc to enable it
. . . to defeat the minority’s preferred
candidate.” Ibid. Finally, a plaintiff who
demonstrates the three preconditions must also show, under the
“totality of circumstances,” that the political process
is not “equally open” to minority voters. Id.,
at 45–46; see also id., at 36–38 (identifying
several factors relevant to the totality of circumstances inquiry,
including “the extent of any history of official
discrimination in the state . . . that touched the right
of the members of the minority group to register, to vote, or
otherwise to participate in the democratic process”).

															Each Gingles precondition serves a
different purpose. The first, focused on geographical compactness
and numerosity, is “needed to establish that the minority has
the potential to elect a representative of its own choice in some
single-member district.” Growe v. Emison,
507 U.S.
25, 40 (1993). The second, concerning the political
cohesiveness of the minority group, shows that a representative of
its choice would in fact be elected. See ibid. The third
precondition, focused on racially polarized voting,
“establish[es] that the challenged districting thwarts a
distinctive minority vote” at least plausibly on account of
race. Ibid. And finally, the totality of circumstances
inquiry recognizes that application of the Gingles factors
is “peculiarly dependent upon the facts of each case.”
478 U. S., at 79. Before courts can find a violation of
§2, therefore, they must conduct “an intensely local
appraisal” of the electoral mechanism at issue, as well as a
“searching practical evaluation of the ‘past and
present reality.’ ” Ibid.
Gingles has governed our Voting Rights
Act jurisprudence since it was decided 37 years ago. Congress has
never disturbed our understanding of §2 as Gingles
construed it. And we have applied Gingles in one §2
case after another, to different kinds of electoral systems and to
different jurisdictions in States all over the country. See
Voinovich v. Quilter, 507 U.S.
146 (1993) (Ohio); Growe, 507 U. S., at 25
(Minnesota); Johnson v. De Grandy, 512 U.S.
997 (1994) (Florida); Holder v. Hall, 512 U.S.
874 (1994) (Georgia); Abrams v. Johnson,
521 U.S.
74 (1997) (Georgia); League of United Latin American
Citizens v. Perry, 548 U.S.
399, 423 (2006) (LULAC) (Texas); Bartlett v.
Strickland, 556 U.S. 1
(2009) (plurality opinion) (North Carolina); Cooper v.
Harris, 581 U.S. 285 (2017) (North Carolina); Abbott
v. Perez, 585 U. S. ___ (2018) (Texas); Wisconsin
Legislature, 595 U. S. ___ (Wisconsin).

															B

															As noted, the District Court concluded that
plaintiffs’ §2 claim was likely to succeed under
Gingles. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1026. Based on our review
of the record, we agree.

															With respect to the first Gingles
precondition, the District Court correctly found that black voters
could constitute a majority in a second district that was
“reasonably configured.” 1 App. to Emergency
Application for Stay in No. 21–1086 etc., p. 253 (MSA). The
plaintiffs adduced eleven illustrative maps—that is, example
districting maps that Alabama could enact—each of which
contained two majority-black districts that comported with
traditional districting criteria. With respect to compactness, for
example, the District Court explained that the maps submitted by
one of plaintiffs’ experts, Dr. Moon Duchin,
“perform[ed] generally better on average than” did HB1.
582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1009. A map offered by another of
plaintiffs’ experts, Bill Cooper, produced districts roughly
as compact as the existing plan. Ibid. And none of
plaintiffs’ maps contained any “tentacles, appendages,
bizarre shapes, or any other obvious irregularities that would make
it difficult to find” them sufficiently compact. Id.,
at 1011. Plaintiffs’ maps also satisfied other traditional
districting criteria. They contained equal populations, were
contiguous, and respected existing political subdivisions, such as
counties, cities, and towns. Id., at 1011, 1016. Indeed,
some of plaintiffs’ proposed maps split the same number of
county lines as (or even fewer county lines than) the
State’s map. Id., at 1011–1012. We agree with
the District Court, therefore, that plaintiffs’ illustrative
maps “strongly suggest[ed] that Black voters in
Alabama” could constitute a majority in a second, reasonably
configured, district. Id., at 1010.

															The State nevertheless argues that
plaintiffs’ maps were not reasonably configured because they
failed to keep together a traditional community of interest within
Alabama. See, e.g., id., at 1012. A “community
of interest,” according to Alabama’s districting
guidelines, is an “area with recognized similarities of
interests, including but not limited to ethnic, racial, economic,
tribal, social, geographic, or historical identities.”
Ibid. Alabama argues that the Gulf Coast region in the
southwest of the State is such a community of interest, and that
plaintiffs’ maps erred by separating it into two different
districts. Ibid.

															We do not find the State’s argument
persuasive. Only two witnesses testified that the Gulf Coast was a
community of interest. Id., at 1015. The testimony provided
by one of those witnesses was “partial, selectively informed,
and poorly supported.” Ibid. The other witness,
meanwhile, justified keeping the Gulf Coast together
“simply” to preserve “political
advantage[ ]”: “You start splitting
counties,” he testified, “and that county loses its
influence. That’s why I don’t want Mobile County to be
split.” Id., at 990, 1015. The District Court
understandably found this testimony insufficient to sustain
Alabama’s “overdrawn argument that there can be no
legitimate reason to split” the Gulf Coast region.
Id., at 1015.

															Even if the Gulf Coast did constitute a
community of interest, moreover, the District Court found that
plaintiffs’ maps would still be reasonably configured because
they joined together a different community of interest called the
Black Belt. Id., at 1012–1014. Named for its fertile
soil, the Black Belt contains a high proportion of black voters,
who “share a rural geography, concentrated poverty, unequal
access to government services, . . . lack of adequate
healthcare,” and a lineal connection to “the many
enslaved people brought there to work in the antebellum
period.” Id., at 1012–1013; see also 1 App.
299–304. The District Court concluded—correctly, under
our precedent—that it did not have to conduct a “beauty
contest[ ]” between plaintiffs’ maps and the
State’s. There would be a split community of interest in
both. 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1012 (quoting Bush v.
Vera, 517 U.S.
952, 977–978 (1996) (plurality opinion)).

															The State also makes a related argument based on
“core retention”—a term that refers to the
proportion of districts that remain when a State transitions from
one districting plan to another. See, e.g., Brief for
Alabama 25, 61. Here, by largely mirroring Alabama’s 2011
districting plan, HB1 performs well on the core retention metric.
Plaintiffs’ illustrative plans, by contrast, naturally fare
worse because they change where the 2011 district lines were drawn.
See e.g., Supp. App. 164–173. But this Court has never
held that a State’s adherence to a previously used
districting plan can defeat a §2 claim. If that were the rule,
a State could immunize from challenge a new racially discriminatory
redistricting plan simply by claiming that it resembled an old
racially discriminatory plan. That is not the law: §2 does not
permit a State to provide some voters “less opportunity
. . . to participate in the political process” just
because the State has done it before. 52 U. S. C.
§10301(b).

															As to the second and third Gingles
preconditions, the District Court determined that there was
“no serious dispute that Black voters are politically
cohesive, nor that the challenged districts’ white majority
votes sufficiently as a bloc to usually defeat Black voters’
preferred candidate.” 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1016 (internal
quotation marks omitted). The Court noted that, “on average,
Black voters supported their candidates of choice with 92.3% of the
vote” while “white voters supported Black-preferred
candidates with 15.4% of the vote.” Id., at 1017
(internal quotation marks omitted). Plaintiffs’ experts
described the evidence of racially polarized voting in Alabama as
“intens[e],” “very strong,” and “very
clear.” Ibid. Even Alabama’s expert conceded
“that the candidates preferred by white voters in the areas
that he looked at regularly defeat the candidates preferred by
Black voters.” Id., at 1018.

															Finally, the District Court concluded that
plaintiffs had carried their burden at the totality of
circumstances stage. The Court observed that elections in Alabama
were racially polarized; that “Black Alabamians enjoy
virtually zero success in statewide elections”; that
political campaigns in Alabama had been “characterized by
overt or subtle racial appeals”; and that
“Alabama’s extensive history of repugnant racial and
voting-related discrimination is undeniable and well
documented.” Id., at 1018–1024.

															We see no reason to disturb the District
Court’s careful factual findings, which are subject to clear
error review and have gone unchallenged by Alabama in any event.
See Cooper, 581 U. S., at 309. Nor is there a basis to
upset the District Court’s legal conclusions. The Court
faithfully applied our precedents and correctly determined that,
under existing law, HB1 violated §2.

															III

															The heart of these cases is not about the law
as it exists. It is about Alabama’s attempt to remake our
§2 jurisprudence anew.

															The centerpiece of the State’s effort is
what it calls the “race-neutral benchmark.” The theory
behind it is this: Using modern computer technology, mapmakers can
now generate millions of possible districting maps for a given
State. The maps can be designed to comply with traditional
districting criteria but to not consider race. The mapmaker can
determine how many majority-minority districts exist in each map,
and can then calculate the median or average number of
majority-minority districts in the entire multimillion-map set.
That number is called the race-neutral benchmark.

															The State contends that this benchmark should
serve as the point of comparison in §2 cases. The benchmark,
the State says, was derived from maps that were
“race-blind”—maps that cannot have
“deni[ed] or abridge[d]” anyone’s right to vote
“on account of race” because they never took race into
“account” in the first place. 52 U. S. C.
§10301(a). Courts in §2 cases should therefore compare
the number of majority-minority districts in the State’s plan
to the benchmark. If those numbers are similar—if the
State’s map “resembles” the benchmark in this
way—then, Alabama argues, the State’s map also cannot
have “deni[ed] or abridge[d]” anyone’s right to
vote “on account of race.” Ibid.

															Alabama contends that its approach should be
adopted for two reasons. First, the State argues that a
race-neutral benchmark best matches the text of the Voting Rights
Act. Section 2 requires that the political processes be
“equally open.” §10301(b). What that means, the
State asserts, is that the State’s map cannot impose
“obstacles or burdens that block or seriously hinder voting
on account of race.” Brief for Alabama 43. These obstacles do
not exist, in the State’s view, where its map resembles a map
that never took race into “account.” Ibid.
Second, Alabama argues that the Gingles framework ends up
requiring racial proportionality in districting. According to the
State, Gingles demands that where “another
majority-black district could be drawn, it must be drawn.”
Brief for Alabama 71 (emphasis deleted). And that sort of
proportionality, Alabama continues, is inconsistent with the
compromise that Congress struck, with the text of §2, and with
the Constitution’s prohibition on racial discrimination in
voting.

															To apply the race-neutral benchmark in practice,
Alabama would require §2 plaintiffs to make at least three
showings. First, the illustrative plan that plaintiffs adduce for
the first Gingles precondition cannot have been
“based” on race. Brief for Alabama 56. Second,
plaintiffs must show at the totality of circumstances stage that
the State’s enacted plan diverges from the average plan that
would be drawn without taking race into account. And finally,
plaintiffs must ultimately prove that any deviation between the
State’s plan and a race-neutral plan is explainable
“only” by race—not, for example, by “the
State’s naturally occurring geography and demography.”
Id., at 46.

															As we explain below, we find Alabama’s new
approach to §2 compelling neither in theory nor in practice.
We accordingly decline to recast our §2 case law as Alabama
requests.

															A

															1

															Section 2 prohibits States from imposing any
“standard, practice, or procedure . . . in a manner
which results in a denial or abridgement of the right of any
citizen . . . to vote on account of race or color.”
52 U. S. C. §10301(a). What that means, §2 goes
on to explain, is that the political processes in the State must be
“equally open,” such that minority voters do not
“have less opportunity than other members of the electorate
to participate in the political process and to elect
representatives of their choice.” §10301(b).

															We have understood the language of §2
against the background of the hard-fought compromise that Congress
struck. To that end, we have reiterated that §2 turns on the
presence of discriminatory effects, not discriminatory intent. See,
e.g., Chisom v. Roemer, 501 U.S.
380, 403–404 (1991). And we have explained that
“[i]t is patently clear that Congress has used the words
‘on account of race or color’ in the Act to mean
‘with respect to’ race or color, and not to connote any
required purpose of racial discrimination.” Gingles,
478 U. S., at 71, n. 34 (plurality opinion) (some alterations
omitted). Individuals thus lack an equal opportunity to participate
in the political process when a State’s electoral structure
operates in a manner that “minimize[s] or cancel[s] out
the[ir] voting strength.” Id., at 47. That occurs
where an individual is disabled from “enter[ing] into the
political process in a reliable and meaningful manner”
“in the light of past and present reality, political and
otherwise.” White, 412 U. S., at 767, 770. A
district is not equally open, in other words, when minority voters
face—unlike their majority peers—bloc voting along
racial lines, arising against the backdrop of substantial racial
discrimination within the State, that renders a minority vote
unequal to a vote by a nonminority voter.

															The State’s reading of §2, by
contrast, runs headlong into our precedent. Alabama asserts that a
State’s map does not “abridge[ ]” a
person’s right to vote “on account of race” if
the map resembles a sufficient number of race-neutral alternatives.
See Brief for Alabama 54–56. But our cases have consistently
focused, for purposes of litigation, on the specific illustrative
maps that a plaintiff adduces. Deviation from that map shows it is
possible that the State’s map has a disparate effect
on account of race. The remainder of the Gingles test helps
determine whether that possibility is reality by looking to
polarized voting preferences and the frequency of racially
discriminatory actions taken by the State, past and present.

															A State’s liability under §2,
moreover, must be determined “based on the totality of
circumstances.” 52 U. S. C. §10301(b). Yet
Alabama suggests there is only one
“circumstance[ ]” that matters—how the
State’s map stacks up relative to the benchmark. That
single-minded view of §2 cannot be squared with the
VRA’s demand that courts employ a more refined approach. And
we decline to adopt an interpretation of §2 that would
“revise and reformulate the Gingles threshold inquiry
that has been the baseline of our §2 jurisprudence” for
nearly forty years. Bartlett, 556 U. S., at 16
(plurality opinion); see also Wisconsin Legislature, 595
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7) (faulting lower court for
“improperly reduc[ing] Gingles’
totality-of-circumstances analysis to a single factor”);
De Grandy, 512 U. S., at 1018 (“An inflexible
rule would run counter to the textual command of §2, that the
presence or absence of a violation be assessed ‘based on the
totality of circumstances.’ ”).[4]

															2

															Alabama also argues that the race-neutral
benchmark is required because our existing §2 jurisprudence
inevitably demands racial proportionality in districting, contrary
to the last sentence of §2(b). But properly applied, the
Gingles framework itself imposes meaningful constraints on
proportionality, as our decisions have frequently demonstrated.

															In Shaw v. Reno, for example, we
considered the permissibility of a second majority-minority
district in North Carolina, which at the time had 12 seats in the
U. S. House of Representatives and a 20% black voting age
population. 509 U.S.
630, 633–634 (1993). The second majority-minority
district North Carolina drew was “160 miles long and, for
much of its length, no wider than the [interstate] corridor.”
Id., at 635. The district wound “in snakelike fashion
through tobacco country, financial centers, and manufacturing areas
until it gobble[d] in enough enclaves of black
neighborhoods.” Id., at 635–636. Indeed, the
district was drawn so imaginatively that one state legislator
remarked: “[I]f you drove down the interstate with both car
doors open, you’d kill most of the people in the
district.” Id., at 636.

															Though North Carolina believed the additional
district was required by §2, we rejected that conclusion,
finding instead that those challenging the map stated a claim of
impermissible racial gerrymandering under the Equal Protection
Clause. Id., at 655, 658. In so holding, we relied on the
fact that the proposed district was not reasonably compact.
Id., at 647. North Carolina had “concentrated a
dispersed minority population in a single district by
disregarding traditional districting principles such as
compactness, contiguity, and respect for political
subdivisions.” Ibid. (emphasis added). And “[a]
reapportionment plan that includes in one district individuals who
belong to the same race, but who are otherwise separated by
geographical and political boundaries,” we said, raised
serious constitutional concerns. Ibid. (emphasis added).

															The same theme emerged in our 1995 decision
Miller v. Johnson, where we upheld a district
court’s finding that one of Georgia’s ten congressional
districts was the product of an impermissible racial gerrymander.
515 U.S.
900, 906, 910–911. At the time, Georgia’s black
voting age population was 27%, but there was only one
majority-minority district. Id., at 906. To comply with the
VRA, Georgia thought it necessary to create two more
majority-minority districts—achieving proportionality.
Id., at 920–921. But like North Carolina in
Shaw, Georgia could not create the districts without
flouting traditional criteria. One district “centered around
four discrete, widely spaced urban centers that ha[d] absolutely
nothing to do with each other, and stretch[ed] the district
hundreds of miles across rural counties and narrow swamp
corridors.” 515 U. S., at 908.
“Geographically,” we said of the map, “it is a
monstrosity.” Id., at 909.

															In Bush v. Vera, a plurality of
the Court again explained how traditional districting criteria
limited any tendency of the VRA to compel proportionality. The case
concerned Texas’s creation of three additional
majority-minority districts. 517 U. S., at 957. Though the
districts brought the State closer to proportional representation,
we nevertheless held that they constituted racial gerrymanders in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. That was because the
districts had “no integrity in terms of traditional, neutral
redistricting criteria.” Id., at 960. One of the
majority-black districts consisted “of narrow and bizarrely
shaped tentacles.” Id., at 965. The proposed
majority-Hispanic district resembled “a sacred Mayan
bird” with “[s]pindly legs reach[ing] south” and
a “plumed head ris[ing] northward.” Id., at
974.

															The point of all this is a simple one. Forcing
proportional representation is unlawful and inconsistent with this
Court’s approach to implementing §2. The numbers bear
the point out well. At the congressional level, the fraction of
districts in which black-preferred candidates are likely to win
“is currently below the Black share of the eligible voter
population in every state but three.” Brief for Professors
Jowei Chen et al. as Amici Curiae 3 (Chen Brief ).
Only one State in the country, meanwhile, “has attained a
proportional share” of districts in which Hispanic-preferred
candidates are likely to prevail. Id., at 3–4. That is
because as residential segregation decreases—as it has
“sharply” done since the 1970s—satisfying
traditional districting criteria such as the compactness
requirement “becomes more difficult.” T. Crum,
Reconstructing Racially Polarized Voting, 70 Duke L. J. 261,
279, and n. 105 (2020).

															Indeed, as amici supporting the appellees
emphasize, §2 litigation in recent years has rarely been
successful for just that reason. See Chen Brief 3–4. Since
2010, plaintiffs nationwide have apparently succeeded in fewer than
ten §2 suits. Id., at 7. And “the only
state legislative or congressional districts that were redrawn
because of successful Section 2 challenges were a handful of state
house districts near Milwaukee and Houston.” Id., at
7–8. By contrast, “[n]umerous lower courts” have
upheld districting maps “where, due to minority
populations’ geographic diffusion, plaintiffs couldn’t
design an additional majority-minority district” or satisfy
the compactness requirement. Id., at 15–16 (collecting
cases). The same has been true of recent litigation in this Court.
See Abbott, 585 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at
33–34) (finding a Texas district did not violate §2
because “the geography and demographics of south and west
Texas do not permit the creation of any more than the seven Latino
. . . districts that exist under the current
plan”).[5]

															Reapportionment, we have repeatedly observed,
“is primarily the duty and responsibility of the
State[s],” not the federal courts. Id., at ___ (slip
op., at 21). Properly applied, the Gingles factors help
ensure that remains the case. As respondents themselves emphasize,
§2 “never require[s] adoption of districts that violate
traditional redistricting principles.” Brief for Respondents
in No. 21–1087, p. 3. Its exacting requirements,
instead, limit judicial intervention to “those instances of
intensive racial politics” where the “excessive role
[of race] in the electoral process . . . den[ies]
minority voters equal opportunity to participate.” Senate
Report 33–34.

															B

															Although we are content to reject
Alabama’s invitation to change existing law on the ground
that the State misunderstands §2 and our decisions
implementing it, we also address how the race-neutral benchmark
would operate in practice. Alabama’s approach fares poorly on
that score, which further counsels against our adopting it.

															1

															The first change to existing law that Alabama
would require is prohibiting the illustrative maps that plaintiffs
submit to satisfy the first Gingles precondition from being
“based” on race. Brief for Alabama 56. Although Alabama
is not entirely clear whether, under its view, plaintiffs’
illustrative plans must not take race into account at all or
whether they must just not “prioritize” race,
ibid., we see no reason to impose such a new rule.

															When it comes to considering race in the context
of districting, we have made clear that there is a difference
“between being aware of racial considerations and being
motivated by them.” Miller, 515 U. S., at 916;
see also North Carolina v. Covington, 585 U. S.
___, ___ (2018) ( per curiam) (slip op., at 8). The
former is permissible; the latter is usually not. That is because
“[r]edistricting legislatures will . . . almost
always be aware of racial demographics,” Miller, 515
U. S., at 916, but such “race consciousness does not
lead inevitably to impermissible race discrimination,”
Shaw, 509 U. S., at 646. Section 2 itself
“demands consideration of race.” Abbott, 581
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 4). The question whether
additional majority-minority districts can be drawn, after
all, involves a “quintessentially race-conscious
calculus.” De Grandy, 512 U. S., at 1020.

															At the same time, however, race may not be
“the predominant factor in drawing district lines unless
[there is] a compelling reason.” Cooper, 581
U. S., at 291. Race predominates in the drawing of district
lines, our cases explain, when “race-neutral considerations
[come] into play only after the race-based decision had been
made.” Bethune-Hill v. Virginia State Bd. of
Elections, 580 U.S. 178, 189 (2017) (internal quotation marks
omitted). That may occur where “race for its own sake is the
overriding reason for choosing one map over others.”
Id., at 190.

															While the line between racial predominance and
racial consciousness can be difficult to discern, see
Miller, 515 U. S., at 916, it was not breached here.
The Caster plaintiffs relied on illustrative maps produced
by expert Bill Cooper. See 2 App. 591–592. Cooper testified
that while it was necessary for him to consider race, he
also took several other factors into account, such as compactness,
contiguity, and population equality. Ibid. Cooper testified
that he gave all these factors “equal weighting.”
Id., at 594. And when asked squarely whether race
predominated in his development of the illustrative plans, Cooper
responded: “No. It was a consideration. This is a Section 2
lawsuit, after all. But it did not predominate or dominate.”
Id., at 595.

															The District Court agreed. It found
“Cooper’s testimony highly credible” and
commended Cooper for “work[ing] hard to give ‘equal
weight[ ]’ to all traditional redistricting
criteria.” 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 1005–1006; see also
id., at 978–979. The court also explained that
Alabama’s evidence of racial predominance in Cooper’s
maps was exceedingly thin. Alabama’s expert, Thomas Bryan,
“testified that he never reviewed the exhibits to Mr.
Cooper’s report” and “that he never
reviewed” one of the illustrative plans that Cooper
submitted. Id., at 1006. Bryan further testified that he
could offer no “conclusions or opinions as to the apparent
basis of any individual line drawing decisions in Cooper’s
illustrative plans.” 2 App. 740. By his own admission,
Bryan’s analysis of any race predominance in Cooper’s
maps “was pretty light.” Id., at 739. The
District Court did not err in finding that race did not predominate
in Cooper’s maps in light of the evidence before it.[6]

															The dissent contends that race nevertheless
predominated in both Cooper’s and Duchin’s maps because
they were designed to hit “ ‘express racial
target[s]’ ”—namely, two “50%-plus
majority-black districts.” Post, at 15 (opinion of
Thomas, J.) (quoting Bethune-Hill, 580 U. S., at 192).
This argument fails in multiple ways. First, the dissent’s
reliance on Bethune-Hill is mistaken. In that case, this
Court was unwilling to conclude that a State’s maps were
produced in a racially predominant manner. Instead, we remanded for
the lower court to conduct the predominance analysis itself,
explaining that “the use of an express racial target”
was just one factor among others that the court would have to
consider as part of “[a] holistic analysis.”
Id., at 192. Justice Thomas dissented in relevant part,
contending that because “the legislature sought to achieve a
[black voting-age population] of at least 55%,” race
necessarily predominated in its decisionmaking. Id., at 198
(opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part). But the Court
did not join in that view, and Justice Thomas again dissents along
the same lines today.

															The second flaw in the dissent’s proposed
approach is its inescapable consequence: Gingles must be
overruled. According to the dissent, racial predominance plagues
every single illustrative map ever adduced at the
first step of Gingles. For all those maps were created with
an express target in mind—they were created to show, as our
cases require, that an additional majority-minority district could
be drawn. That is the whole point of the enterprise. The upshot of
the approach the dissent urges is not to change how Gingles
is applied, but to reject its framework outright.

															The contention that mapmakers must be entirely
“blind” to race has no footing in our §2 case law.
The line that we have long drawn is between consciousness and
predominance. Plaintiffs adduced at least one illustrative map that
comported with our precedents. They were required to do no more to
satisfy the first step of Gingles.

															2

															The next condition Alabama would graft onto
§2 is a requirement that plaintiffs demonstrate, at the
totality of circumstances stage, that the State’s enacted
plan contains fewer majority-minority districts than the
race-neutral benchmark. Brief for Alabama 43. If it does not, then
§2 should drop out of the picture. Id., at 44.

															Alabama argues that is what should have happened
here. It notes that one of plaintiffs’ experts, Dr. Duchin,
used an algorithm to create “2 million districting plans for
Alabama . . . without taking race into account in any way
in the generation process.” 2 App. 710. Of these two million
“race-blind” plans, none contained two majority-black
districts while many plans did not contain any. Ibid.
Alabama also points to a “race-neutral” computer
simulation conducted by another one of plaintiffs’ experts,
Dr. Kosuke Imai, which produced 30,000 potential maps. Brief for
Alabama 55. As with Dr. Duchin’s maps, none of the maps that
Dr. Imai created contained two majority-black districts. See 2 App.
571–572. Alabama thus contends that because HB1 sufficiently
“resembles” the “race-neutral” maps created
by Dr. Duchin and Dr. Imai—all of the maps lack two
majority-black districts—HB1 does not violate §2. Brief
for Alabama 54.

															Alabama’s reliance on the maps created by
Dr. Duchin and Dr. Imai is misplaced. For one, neither
Duchin’s nor Imai’s maps accurately represented the
districting process in Alabama. Dr. Duchin’s maps were based
on old census data—from 2010 instead of 2020—and
ignored certain traditional districting criteria, such as keeping
together communities of interest, political subdivisions, or
municipalities.[7] And Dr.
Imai’s 30,000 maps failed to incorporate Alabama’s own
districting guidelines, including keeping together communities of
interest and preserving municipal boundaries. See Supp.
App. 58–59.[8]

															But even if the maps created by Dr. Duchin and
Dr. Imai were adequate comparators, we could not adopt the
map-comparison test that Alabama proposes. The test is flawed in
its fundamentals. Districting involves myriad
considerations—compactness, contiguity, political
subdivisions, natural geographic boundaries, county lines, pairing
of incumbents, communities of interest, and population equality.
See Miller, 515 U. S., at 916. Yet
“[q]uantifying, measuring, prioritizing, and reconciling
these criteria” requires map drawers to “make
difficult, contestable choices.” Brief for Computational
Redistricting Experts as Amici Curiae 8 (Redistricting
Brief ). And “[i]t is easy to imagine how different
criteria could move the median map toward different . . .
distributions,” meaning that “the same map could be
[lawful] or not depending solely on what the mapmakers said they
set out to do.” Rucho v. Common Cause, 588
U. S. ___, ___–___ (2019) (slip op., at 27–28).
For example, “the scientific literature contains dozens of
competing metrics” on the issue of compactness. Redistricting
Brief 8. Which one of these metrics should be used? What happens
when the maps they produce yield different benchmark results? How
are courts to decide?

															Alabama does not say; it offers no rule or
standard for determining which of these choices are better than
others. Nothing in §2 provides an answer either. In 1982, the
computerized mapmaking software that Alabama contends plaintiffs
must use to demonstrate an (unspecified) level of deviation did not
even exist. See, e.g., J. Chen & N. Stephanopoulos, The
Race-Blind Future of Voting Rights, 130 Yale L. J. 862,
881–882 (2021) (Chen & Stephanopoulos). And neither the
text of §2 nor the fraught debate that produced it suggests
that “equal access” to the fundamental right of voting
turns on computer simulations that are technically complicated,
expensive to produce, and available to “[o]nly a small cadre
of university researchers [that] have the resources and expertise
to run” them. Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae
28 (citing Chen & Stephanopoulos 882–884).[9]

															One final point bears mentioning. Throughout
these cases, Alabama has repeatedly emphasized that HB1 cannot have
violated §2 because none of plaintiffs’ two million odd
maps contained more than one majority-minority district. See,
e.g., Brief for Alabama 1, 23, 30, 31, 54–56, 70, 79.
The point is that two million is a very big number and that sheer
volume matters. But as elsewhere, Alabama misconceives the math
project that it expects courts to oversee. A brief submitted by
three computational redistricting experts explains that the number
of possible districting maps in Alabama is at least in the
“trillion trillions.” Redistricting Brief 6, n. 7.
Another publication reports that the number of potential maps may
be orders of magnitude higher: “the universe of all possible
connected, population-balanced districting plans that satisfy the
state’s requirements,” it explains, “is likely in
the range of googols.” Duchin & Spencer 768. Two million
maps, in other words, is not many maps at all. And Alabama’s
insistent reliance on that number, however powerful it may sound in
the abstract, is thus close to irrelevant in practice. What would
the next million maps show? The next billion? The first trillion of
the trillion trillions? Answerless questions all. See, e.g.,
Redistricting Brief 2 (“[I]t is computationally intractable,
and thus effectively impossible, to generate a complete enumeration
of all potential districting plans. [Even] algorithms that attempt
to create a manageable sample of that astronomically large universe
do not consistently identify an average or median map.”);
Duchin & Spencer 768 (“[A] comprehensive survey of [all
districting plans within a State] is impossible.”).

															Section 2 cannot require courts to judge a
contest of computers when there is no reliable way to determine who
wins, or even where the finish line is.

															3

															Alabama’s final contention with respect
to the race-neutral benchmark is that it requires plaintiffs to
demonstrate that any deviations between the State’s enacted
plan and race-neutral alternatives “can be explained
only by racial discrimination.” Brief for Alabama 44
(emphasis added).

															We again find little merit in Alabama’s
proposal. As we have already explained, our precedents and the
legislative compromise struck in the 1982 amendments clearly
rejected treating discriminatory intent as a requirement for
liability under §2. See, e.g., Chisom, 501
U. S., at 403–404; Shaw, 509 U. S., at 641;
Reno v. Bossier Parish School Bd., 520 U.S.
471, 481–482 (1997). Yet Alabama’s proposal is even
more demanding than the intent test Congress jettisoned.
Demonstrating discriminatory intent, we have long held, “does
not require a plaintiff to prove that the challenged action rested
solely on racially discriminatory purpose[ ].”
Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Development
Corp., 429 U.S.
252, 265 (1977) (emphasis added); see also Reno, 520
U. S., at 488. Alabama’s proposed approach stands in
sharp contrast to all this, injecting into the effects test of
§2 an evidentiary standard that even our purposeful
discrimination cases eschew.

															C

															Alabama finally asserts that the Court should
outright stop applying §2 in cases like these because the text
of §2 does not apply to single-member redistricting and
because §2 is unconstitutional as the District Court applied
it here. We disagree on both counts.

															Alabama first argues that §2 does not apply
to single-member redistricting. Echoing Justice Thomas’s
concurrence in Holder v. Hall, Alabama reads
§2’s reference to “standard, practice, or
procedure” to mean only the “methods for conducting a
part of the voting process that might . . . be used to
interfere with a citizen’s ability to cast his vote.”
512 U. S., at 917–918 (opinion concurring in judgment).
Examples of covered activities would include “registration
requirements, . . . the locations of polling places, the
times polls are open, the use of paper ballots as opposed to voting
machines, and other similar aspects of the voting process.”
Id., at 922. But not “a single-member districting
system or the selection of one set of districting lines over
another.” Id., at 923.

															This understanding of §2 cannot be
reconciled with our precedent. As recounted above, we have applied
§2 to States’ districting maps in an unbroken line of
decisions stretching four decades. See supra, at 11; see
also Brnovich, 594 U. S., at ___, n. 5 (slip op.,
at 7, n. 5) (collecting cases). In doing so, we have
unanimously held that §2 and Gingles “[c]ertainly
. . . apply” to claims challenging single-member
districts. Growe, 507 U. S., at 40. And we have even
invalidated portions of a State’s single-district map under
§2. See LULAC, 548 U. S., at
427–429.[10]
Alabama’s approach would require “abandoning”
this precedent, “overruling the interpretation of
§2” as set out in nearly a dozen of our cases.
Holder, 512 U. S., at 944 (opinion of Thomas, J.).

															We decline to take that step. Congress is
undoubtedly aware of our construing §2 to apply to districting
challenges. It can change that if it likes. But until and unless it
does, statutory stare decisis counsels our staying the
course. See, e.g., Kimble v. Marvel Entertainment,
LLC, 576 U.S. 446, 456 (2015).[11]

															The statutory text in any event supports the
conclusion that §2 applies to single-member districts.
Alabama’s own proffered definition of a “procedure is
the manner or method of proceeding in a process or course of
action.” Brief for Alabama 51 (internal quotation marks
omitted). But the manner of proceeding in the act of voting entails
determining in which districts voters will vote. The fact that the
term “procedure” is preceded by the phrase
“qualification or prerequisite to voting,” 52
U. S. C. §10301(a), does not change its meaning. It
is hard to imagine many more fundamental
“prerequisites” to voting than determining where to
cast your ballot or who you are eligible to vote for. Perhaps for
that reason, even Alabama does not bear the courage of its
conviction on this point. It refuses to argue that §2 is
inapplicable to multimember districting, though its textual
arguments apply with equal force in that context.

															The dissent, by contrast, goes where even
Alabama does not dare, arguing that §2 is wholly inapplicable
to districting because it “focuses on ballot access and
counting” only. Post, at 2 (opinion of Thomas, J.).
But the statutory text upon which the dissent relies supports the
exact opposite conclusion. The relevant section provides that
“[t]he terms ‘vote’ or ‘voting’ shall
include all action necessary to make a vote
effective.” Ibid. (quoting 52 U. S. C.
§10310(c)(1); emphasis added). Those actions “includ[e],
but [are] not limited to, . . . action[s] required by law
prerequisite to voting, casting a ballot, and having such ballot
counted properly and included in the appropriate totals of votes
cast.” §10310(c)(1). It would be anomalous to read the
broad language of the statute—“all action
necessary,” “including but not limited
to”—to have the crabbed reach that Justice Thomas
posits. And we have already discussed why determining where to cast
a ballot constitutes a “prerequisite” to voting, as the
statute requires.

															The dissent also contends that “applying
§2 to districting rests on systematic neglect of
. . . the ballot-access focus of the 1960s’
voting-rights struggles.” Post, at 3 (opinion of
Thomas, J.). But history did not stop in 1960. As we have
explained, Congress adopted the amended §2 in response to the
1980 decision City of Mobile, a case about
districting. And—as the dissent itself
acknowledges—“Congress drew §2(b)’s current
operative language” from the 1973 decision White v.
Regester, post, at 4, n. 3 (opinion of Thomas, J.), a
case that was also about districting (in fact, a case that
invalidated two multimember districts in Texas and ordered them
redrawn into single-member districts, 412 U. S., at 765). This
was not lost on anyone when §2 was amended. Indeed, it was the
precise reason that the contentious debates over proportionality
raged—debates that would have made little sense if §2
covered only poll taxes and the like, as the dissent contends.

															We also reject Alabama’s argument that
§2 as applied to redistricting is unconstitutional under the
Fifteenth Amendment. According to Alabama, that Amendment permits
Congress to legislate against only purposeful discrimination by
States. See Brief for Alabama 73. But we held over 40 years ago
“that, even if §1 of the [Fifteenth] Amendment prohibits
only purposeful discrimination, the prior decisions of this Court
foreclose any argument that Congress may not, pursuant to §2
[of the Fifteenth Amendment] outlaw voting practices that are
discriminatory in effect.” City of Rome v. United
States, 446 U.S.
156, 173 (1980). The VRA’s “ban on electoral
changes that are discriminatory in effect,” we emphasized,
“is an appropriate method of promoting the purposes of the
Fifteenth Amendment.” Id., at 177. As City of
Rome recognized, we had reached the very same conclusion in
South Carolina v. Katzenbach, a decision issued right
after the VRA was first enacted. 383 U. S., at 308–309,
329–337; see also Brnovich, 594 U. S., at ___
(slip op., at 3).

															Alabama further argues that, even if the
Fifteenth Amendment authorizes the effects test of §2, that
Amendment does not authorize race-based redistricting as a remedy
for §2 violations. But for the last four decades, this Court
and the lower federal courts have repeatedly applied the effects
test of §2 as interpreted in Gingles and, under certain
circumstances, have authorized race-based redistricting as a remedy
for state districting maps that violate §2. See, e.g.,
supra, at 11; cf. Mississippi Republican Executive
Committee v. Brooks, 469 U.S.
1002 (1984). In light of that precedent, including City of
Rome, we are not persuaded by Alabama’s arguments that
§2 as interpreted in Gingles exceeds the remedial
authority of Congress.

															The concern that §2 may impermissibly
elevate race in the allocation of political power within the States
is, of course, not new. See, e.g., Shaw, 509
U. S., at 657 (“Racial gerrymandering, even for remedial
purposes, may balkanize us into competing racial factions; it
threatens to carry us further from the goal of a political system
in which race no longer matters.”). Our opinion today does
not diminish or disregard these concerns. It simply holds that a
faithful application of our precedents and a fair reading of the
record before us do not bear them out here.

															*  *  *

															The judgments of the District Court for the
Northern District of Alabama in the Caster case, and of the
three-judge District Court in the Milligan case, are
affirmed.

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
*Justice Kavanaugh joins all
but Part III–B–1 of this opinion.
2
 As originally enacted,
§2 provided that “[n]o voting qualification or
prerequisite to voting, or standard, practice, or procedure shall
be imposed or applied by any State or political subdivision to deny
or abridge the right of any citizen of the United States to vote on
account of race or color.” 42 U. S. C. §1973
(1970 ed.).
3
 Judge Manasco, presiding
in Caster, also preliminarily enjoined Alabama from using
HB1. Her opinion was based on the same evidentiary record as was
before the three-judge Court, and it adopted in full that
Court’s “recitation of the evidence, legal analysis,
findings of fact and conclusions of law.” 1 App. to Emergency
Application for Stay in No. 2:21–cv–1536, p. 4;
see also 582 F. Supp. 3d, at 942–943, and n. 4. Any
reference to the “District Court” in this opinion
applies to the Caster Court as well as to the three-judge
Court.
4
 The principal dissent
complains that “what the District Court did here is
essentially no different from what many courts have done for
decades under this Court’s superintendence.”
Post, at 47 (opinion of Thomas, J.). That is not such a bad
definition of stare decisis.
5
 Despite this all, the
dissent argues that courts have apparently been “methodically
carving the country into racially designated electoral
districts” for decades. Post, at 48 (opinion of
Thomas, J.). And that, the dissent inveighs, “should inspire
us to repentance.” Ibid. But proportional
representation of minority voters is absent from nearly every
corner of this country despite §2 being in effect for over 40
years. And in case after case, we have rejected districting plans
that would bring States closer to proportionality when those plans
violate traditional districting criteria. See supra, at
19–21. It seems it is the dissent that is “quixotically
joust[ing] with an imaginary adversary.” Post, at 47
(opinion of Thomas, J.).
6
 The dissent claims that
Cooper “treated ‘the minority population in and of
itself ’ as the paramount community of interest in his
plans.” Post, at 14 (opinion of Thomas, J.) (quoting 2
App. 601). But Cooper testified that he was “aware that the
minority population in and of itself can be a community of
interest.” Id., at 601 (emphasis added). Cooper then
explained that the relevant community of interest here—the
Black Belt—was a “historical feature” of
the State, not a demographic one. Ibid. (emphasis added).
The Black Belt, he emphasized, was defined by its “historical
boundaries”—namely, the group of “rural counties
plus Montgomery County in the central part of the state.”
Ibid. The District Court treated the Black Belt as a
community of interest for the same reason. The dissent also
protests that Cooper’s “plans prioritized race over
neutral districting criteria.” Post, at 14 (opinion of
Thomas, J.). But as the District Court found, and as Alabama does
not contest, Cooper’s maps satisfied other traditional
criteria, such as compactness, contiguity, equal populations, and
respect for political subdivisions.
7
 Dr. Duchin created her
two million map sample as part of an academic article that she
helped author, not for her work on this case, and the article was
neither entered into evidence below nor made part of the record
here. See 2 App. 710; see also M. Duchin & D. Spencer, Models,
Race, and the Law, 130 Yale L. J. Forum 744, 763–764 (2021)
(Duchin & Spencer).
8
 The principal dissent
decrees that Dr. Duchin’s and Dr. Imai’s maps are
“surely probative,” forgiving the former’s use of
stale census data as well as both mapmakers’ collective
failure to incorporate many traditional districting guidelines.
Post, at 23–24, and n. 14 (opinion of Thomas,
J.); see also post, at 15, n. 9, 16. In doing so, that
dissent ignores Dr. Duchin’s testimony that—when using
the correct census data—the “randomized
algorithms” she employed “found plans with two
majority-black districts in literally thousands of different
ways.” MSA 316–317. The principal dissent and the
dissent by Justice Alito also ignore Duchin’s testimony that
“it is certainly possible” to draw the illustrative
maps she produced in a race-blind manner. 2 App. 713. In that way,
even the race-blind standard that the dissents urge would be
satisfied here. See post, at 21 (opinion of Thomas, J.);
post, at 6 (opinion of Alito, J.). So too could that
standard be satisfied in every §2 case; after all, as Duchin
explained, any map produced in a deliberately race-predominant
manner would necessarily emerge at some point in a random,
race-neutral process. 2 App. 713. And although Justice Alito voices
support for an “old-school approach” to §2, even
that approach cannot be squared with his understanding of
Gingles. Post, at 6. The very reason a plaintiff
adduces a map at the first step of Gingles is precisely
because of its racial composition—that is,
because it creates an additional majority-minority district that
does not then exist.
9
 None of this is to
suggest that algorithmic mapmaking is categorically irrelevant in
voting rights cases. Instead, we note only that, in light of the
difficulties discussed above, courts should exercise caution before
treating results produced by algorithms as all but dispositive of a
§2 claim. And in evaluating algorithmic evidence more
generally in this context, courts should be attentive to the
concerns we have discussed.
10  The
dissent suggests that Growe does not support the proposition
that §2 applies to single-member redistricting. Post,
at 4–5 (opinion of Thomas, J.). The Court has understood
Growe much differently. See, e.g., Abrams v.
Johnson, 521 U.S.
74, 90 (1997) (“Our decision in [Gingles] set out
the basic framework for establishing a vote dilution claim against
at-large, multimembers districts; we have since extended the
framework to single-member districts.” (citing Growe,
507 U. S., at 40–41)); Johnson v. De
Grandy, 512 U.S.
997, 1006 (1994) (“In Growe, we held that a claim
of vote dilution in a single-member district requires proof meeting
the same three threshold conditions for a dilution challenge
to a multimember district . . . .”);
Bartlett v. Strickland, 556 U.S.
1, 12 (plurality opinion) (“The Court later held that the
three Gingles requirements apply equally in §2 cases
involving single-member districts . . . .”
(citing Growe, 507 U. S., at
40–41)).
11  Justice Alito argues that
“[t]he Gingles framework should be
[re]interpreted” in light of changing methods in statutory
interpretation. Post, at 10 (dissenting opinion). But as we
have explained, Gingles effectuates the delicate legislative
bargain that §2 embodies. And statutory stare decisis
counsels strongly in favor of not “undo[ing] . . .
the compromise that was reached between the House and Senate when
§2 was amended in 1982.” Brnovich, 594
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 22).


