::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-040
::decision_cite:: 21-12
::decision_name::  Federal Election Commission v. Cruz
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–12

															_________________

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, APPELLANT v. TED CRUZ FOR SENATE, et al.

															on appeal from the united states district court for the district of columbia

															[May 16, 2022]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Sotomayor join, dissenting.

															A candidate for public office extends a $500,000 loan to his campaign organization, hoping to recoup the amount from benefactors’ post-election contributions.  Once elected, he devotes himself assiduously to recovering the money; his personal bank account, after all, now has a gaping half-million-dollar hole.  The politician solicits donations from wealthy individuals and corporate lobbyists, making clear that the money they give will go straight from the campaign to him, as repayment for his loan.  He is deeply grateful to those who help, as they know he will be—more grateful than for ordinary campaign contributions (which do not increase his personal wealth).  And as they paid him, so he will pay them.  In the coming months and years, they receive government benefits—maybe favorable legislation, maybe prized appointments, maybe lucrative contracts.  The politician is happy; the donors are happy.  The only loser is the public.  It inevitably suffers from government corruption.

															 The campaign finance measure at issue here has for two decades checked the crooked exchanges just described.  The provision, Section 304 of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, prohibited a candidate from using post-election donations to repay loans exceeding $250,000 that he made to his campaign.  The theory of the legislation is easy to grasp.  Political contributions that will line a candidate’s own pockets, given after his election to office, pose a special danger of corruption.  The candidate has a more-than-usual interest in obtaining the money (to replenish his personal finances), and is now in a position to give something in return.  The donors well understand his situation, and are eager to take advantage of it.  In short, everyone’s incentives are stacked to enhance the risk of dirty dealing.  At the very least—even if an illicit exchange does not occur—the public will predictably perceive corruption in post-election payments directly enriching an officeholder.  Congress enacted Section 304 to protect against those harms.

															In striking down the law today, the Court greenlights all the sordid bargains Congress thought right to stop.  The theory of the decision (unlike of the statute) is hard to fathom.  The majority says that Section 304 violates the candidate’s
 
First Amendment rights by interfering with his ability to “self-fund” his campaign.  Ante, at 12.  But the candidate can in fact self-fund all he likes.  The law impedes only his ability to use other people’s money to finance his campaign—much as standard (and permissible) contribution limits do.  And even that third-party restriction is a modest one, applying only to post- (not pre-) election donations to repay sizable (not small) loans.  So the majority overstates the
 
First Amendment burdens Section 304 imposes.  At the same time, the majority understates the anti-corruption values Section 304 serves.  In the majority’s view, there is “scant” danger here of quid pro quo corruption; loan repayments produce only the “sort of ‘corruption’ ” in which contributors wield “greater influence” over candidates than they otherwise would.  Ante, at 16–17, 21.  Assume away all objections to that distinction, which even the majority concedes is “vague,” ante, at 16; for better or worse, it underlies this Court’s recent campaign finance decisions.  Still, the conduct targeted by Section 304 threatens, if anything does, both corruption and the appearance of corruption of the quid pro quo kind.  That is because the regulated transactions—as Members of Congress well knew from experience—personally enrich those already elected to office.  In allowing those payments to go forward unrestrained, today’s decision can only bring this country’s political system into further disrepute.

															I

															In assessing a law’s burden on speech, this Court’s decisions all distinguish between restricting expenditures and restricting contributions.  See, e.g., Buckley v. Valeo,

424 U.S. 1, 19–23 (1976) (per curiam).  (The majority glosses over that core distinction, for reasons that will soon become clear.)  According to settled precedent, expenditure restrictions—caps on a campaign’s or candidate’s electoral spending—impose the greatest burdens on expression.  The
 
First Amendment, as the majority notes, “has its fullest and most urgent application” when a “legislative limit” prevents a candidate from “us[ing] personal funds to finance campaign speech”—that is, speech “on behalf of his own candidacy.”  Ante, at 10 (internal quotation marks omitted).  By contrast, laws focused on third-party contributions to a campaign (a category the majority mostly prefers to ignore) typically “entail[ ] only a marginal restriction” on
 
First Amendment interests.  Buckley, 424 U. S., at 20.  Take, for example, a simple limit on the amount someone can donate to a campaign, like the federal $2,900 ceiling.  That kind of restriction, we have reasoned, in no way interferes with the donor’s “freedom to discuss candidates and issues” through independent spending.  Id., at 21.  And it has only an indirect effect on the campaign itself.  To be sure, the cap makes raising money (for speech and other things) harder: It forces candidates “to raise funds from a greater number” of people and generally results in the campaign taking in less money than it otherwise would.  Id., at 22.  But the Court has viewed such limits as troublesome only if they are so low as to prevent candidates from raising “the resources necessary for effective advocacy.”  Randall v. Sorrell,

548 U.S. 230, 247 (2006) (plurality opinion) (quoting Buckley, 424 U. S., at 21).  In the usual case, the incidental effect of a contribution restriction on a campaign’s speech does not count as a significant
 
First Amendment burden.  See Randall, 548 U. S., at 246–247.

															Under that precedent, Section 304 “entails only a marginal restriction” on speech, because it regulates contributions alone.  Buckley, 424 U. S., at 20.  The provision leaves a campaign free to spend any amount of money for speech.  Likewise, it leaves the candidate himself—here, Senator Ted Cruz—free to do so.  The candidate can (in the majority’s words) “use personal funds to finance campaign speech” without limit; if he wishes, he can devote his whole fortune to “speech on behalf of his own candidacy.”  Ante, at 10–11. Section 304 restricts only the use of third-party contributions to support his efforts—which, as just shown, imposes a far more modest
 
First Amendment burden.  Recall how Section 304 works: It prevents post-election campaign contributions from going to repay large loans that the candidate has made to his campaign.  So the provision limits—much as standard contribution caps do—only the candidate’s ability to shift the costs of his electoral speech to others.  Or said a bit differently, it addresses not a candidate’s “self-fund[ing],” ante, at 12, but only his reliance on third-party financing.

															And even that regulation of third-party contributions is a narrow one.  Under Section 304, a campaign can always accept donations for small loans a candidate makes.  And it can use pre-election donations to retire even his sizable loans.  The statute just insists that donations for that purpose occur when speech is ongoing, and before everyone knows which candidate won (and so is in a position to return the favor by delivering government benefits).  Consistent with our caselaw, that minor restriction on a candidate’s use of other people’s money does not severely burden his (or anyone else’s) expression.

															The majority’s argument to the contrary focuses not on the restriction Section 304 actually imposes, but on the indirect effects the provision might have.  The majority does not dispute that Section 304 places no limits on the amount a candidate can spend for expression.  See ante, at 11.  Nor does (or could) the majority even claim that the provision caps what a candidate can lend his campaign.  Instead, the majority argues that the law “may deter” a candidate from making large loans because it curtails a potential source of repayment—i.e., post-election donations.  Ante, at 12.  In that way, the majority insists, the law—though concededly regulating only the use of contributions—functions to “restrict[ ] a candidate’s speech.”  Ante, at 11; see ante, at 13.

															But every contribution regulation has some kind of indirect effect on electoral speech, and we have still understood them to impose only minimal burdens.  Consider again a standard contribution ceiling, like the federal $2,900 cap.  That limit, as we have acknowledged, makes raising money harder.  See Randall, 548 U. S., at 247; Buckley, 424 U. S., at 20–21.  And so it predictably gives a campaign less money to spend.  (In fact, a lot less: Just think of a world in which a candidate could raise an unlimited sum from every supporter.)  With the contribution cap in effect, the campaign cannot pay for (nearly) as many advertisements, mailings, signs, and so forth.  And likewise, to return to the fact pattern here, the campaign has less money available than it otherwise would to repay a candidate’s (or any other) loans.  By the majority’s logic, that downstream effect would mean the contribution cap imposes a significant
 
First Amendment burden.  But as noted above, we have always held to the contrary, save for the rare case in which the limit is so low as to preclude effective advocacy.  See supra, at 3–4.  There is no reason to treat Section 304 differently.  In fact, its restriction on post-election contributions for loan repayment probably has much smaller indirect effects on a campaign’s or candidate’s speech than the contribution ceilings this Court has approved.  (Again, just think of all the multi-million-dollar donations those ceilings prevent.)  So the majority’s view cannot be right.

															And more fundamentally, the majority fails to appreciate what Section 304 has an indirect effect on: lending, rather than spending, money.  In the majority’s view, those two activities count as one and the same.  See ante, at 10–11.  But they are not, in an obvious way.  The expenditure of “personal funds” for speech, this Court has observed, “reduces the candidate’s dependence” on donors—precisely because he is not trying to speak on their dime.  Buckley, 424 U. S., at 53.  The loan of personal funds has the opposite effect, as further shown in this opinion’s next part.  When a candidate lends substantial funds to his campaign, he wants (maybe desperately needs) them returned; he thus risks—indeed, invites—dependence on donors, who alone can make him financially whole.  Section 304 responds to that difference in whether a candidate is speaking independently, or instead relying on others’ largesse.  The provision at most deters a single mechanism for financing electoral activities, because it carries a heightened threat of corruption.

															II

															Preventing quid pro quo corruption or its appearance is a compelling interest by any measure.  See Federal Election Comm’n v. National Conservative Political Action Comm.,

470 U.S. 480, 496–497 (1985).  Quid pro quo corruption—which extends beyond criminal bribery to “less blatant and specific” arrangements—“subver[ts] the political process” and threatens “the integrity of our system of representative democracy.”  Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC,

528 U.S. 377, 388–389 (2000) (internal quotation marks omitted).  And the appearance of that corruption (though scarcely mentioned in the majority opinion) is “[o]f almost equal concern.”  Id., at 388.  Avoiding that appearance is “critical” if public “confidence in the system of representative Government is not to be eroded to a disastrous extent.”  Id., at 389.

															Serious dangers of actual and apparent quid pro quo corruption attend the transactions Section 304 regulates—again, the use of post-election contributions to repay a candidate’s personal loans.  Consider a simple comparison.  When a campaign uses a donation to fund routine electoral activities (including speech), the money marginally aids the candidate’s electoral odds, but in no way adds to his personal wealth.  By contrast, when a campaign uses a donation to repay the candidate’s loan, every dollar given goes straight into the candidate’s pocket.  With each such contribution, his assets increase; he can now buy a car or make tuition payments or join a country club—all with his donors’ dollars.  So contributions going to loan repayment have exceptional value to the candidate—which his donors of course realize.  And when the contributions occur after the election, their corrupting potential further increases.  At that time, a campaign can use donations only to repay loans, of which some 97% come from candidates.  See 11 CFR 110.1(b)(3)(i) (2017); A. Ovtchinnikov & P. Valta, Self-Funding of Political Campaigns, Management Science, Articles in Advance 5 (Apr. 7, 2022) (Ovtchinnikov, Self-Funding).  So post-election donors can be confident their money will enrich a candidate personally.  And those donors have of course learned which candidate won.  When they give money to repay the victor’s loan, they know—not merely hope—he will be in a position to perform official favors.  The recipe for quid pro quo corruption is thus in place: a donation to enhance the candidate’s own wealth (the quid), made when he has become able to use the power of public office to the donor’s advantage (the quo).  The heightened threat of corruption—and, even more, of its appearance—is self-evident (except, it seems, to observers allergic to all campaign finance regulation).

															In addressing that special danger, Section 304 is anything but a “prophylaxis-upon-prophylaxis,” as the majority labels it.  Ante, at 14.  The idea behind that fancy-sounding epithet is just that the statute is a needless precaution: The $2,900 contribution ceiling, the majority asserts, already provides generous protection against the corrupting potential of donations, so the loan-repayment provision is unnecessary.  See ibid.  But that claim ignores that Section 304 targets only a subset of contributions, which raise (as just described) unique corruption risks.  When an added protection addresses an added danger, the existence of a basic protection (however ordinarily ample) fails to show the supplement’s pointlessness.  Regular seatbelts might suffice to protect drivers on the interstate, but special belts—and roll cages to boot—are essential measures on the racetrack.  So too, a $2,900 cap might suffice to prevent corruption from normal campaign contributions—but not from post-election contributions to repay a candidate’s loan, and thus to enrich him personally.  When Congress, as here, responds to a heightened threat with a heightened safeguard, the majority has no call to “greet” it “with a measure of skepticism.”  Ibid.

															Nor does the majority have reason to second-guess Congress’s experience-based judgment about the specially corrupting effects of post-election donations to repay candidate loans.  The majority’s first attempt to counter that judgment is that “we are only talking about repayment of a loan”: “If the candidate did not have the money to buy a car before he made a loan to his campaign, repayment of the loan would not change that in any way.”  Ante, at 19.  But that altogether misses the point.  However much money the candidate had before he makes a loan to his campaign, he has less after it: The amount of the loan is the size of the hole in his bank account.  So whatever he could buy with, say, $250,000—surely a car, but that’s beside the point—he cannot buy any longer.  Until, that is, donors pay him back.  Then, the hole is filled, the bank account replenished, and the purchasing power restored.  That is a significant financial gain to the officeholder, courtesy of donors.  If they had not stepped up, the officeholder would have been $250,000 poorer.

															The majority’s second theory fares no better.  Contributions to repay loans, the majority argues, do not really enrich an officeholder, because he has, from the beginning, “expect[ed] to be repaid.”  Ante, at 20.  But the record provides no support for that self-assured statement.  Contra the majority, the Government “has recognized throughout this litigation” not that winning candidates are usually repaid, but only that they are repaid more often than losing ones.  Ibid.; see App. 31–32, 317.[1]  That is no surprise—and the fact is affirmatively unhelpful for the majority’s position, because it shows how post-election donations reflect an expectation of payback from the recipient.  Nothing else in the record (or outside it) is helpful to the majority either.  The best empirical study suggests that a substantial portion of winning campaigns fail to retire candidate loans, even when their amounts are too small to trigger Section 304’s restrictions.  See Ovtchinnikov, Self-Funding 11; see also Brief for Campaign Legal Center et al. as Amici Curiae 12–13 (summarizing research “show[ing] that most campaigns fail to pay off candidates’ personal loans in any amount at any time,” in confirmation of the “[c]onventional wisdom” that post-election fundraising is “notoriously difficult”).  So a candidate with a loan outstanding has plenty of reason to feel anxious—and to see the loan’s repayment as a gratitude-inducing personal benefit.  The donor takes him off a sharp hook.  And even a candidate who expects repayment is far from impervious to corruption.  He may have that confidence exactly because he knows that a raft of lobbyists will be eager to pay for political benefits.  And with his bank account depleted, he has a great temptation to perform his part in such an exchange.[2]

															The common sense of Section 304—the obviousness of the theory behind it—lessens the need for the Government to identify past cases of quid pro quo corruption involving candidate loan repayments.  As this Court has made clear, “[t]he quantum of empirical evidence needed” to sustain a campaign finance law “var[ies] up or down with the novelty and plausibility of the [law’s] justification.”  McConnell v. Federal Election Comm’n,

540 U.S. 93, 144 (2003).  There is nothing novel or implausible about Section 304’s rationale—once again, that payments going to line an elected official’s pockets pose an especial risk of corruption.  It is in fact what everyone knows to be true—because everyone knows people (including politicians) will often do things for money.  The majority suggests that we should discard our understanding of how the world works because the Government has not come forward with adjudicated instances of corruption in the loan-repayment context.  See ante, at 15–16.  But quid pro quo exchanges, in that and every other setting, are nigh-impossible to detect and prove.  That is indeed why we have campaign finance laws like Section 304.  They prohibit conduct posing a heightened risk of corruption, so that the Government does not have to ferret out illicit exchanges case by case by case.  To strike down Section 304 because the Government has not proved to a certainty some number of loan-repayments-for-political-paybacks is to miss the provision’s essential point.

															In any event, the Government and its amici have marshalled significant evidence showing that the loan repayments Section 304 targets have exactly the dangers Congress thought.  See Brief for Appellant 37–40; Brief for Campaign Legal Center et al. 27–29.  Here is a sampling from the record, involving jurisdictions unprotected by either Section 304 or a state equivalent.  In Ohio, various law firms donated almost $200,000 to help the newly elected attorney general recoup his personal loans.  Those donors later received more than 200 state contracts worth nearly $10 million in legal fees.  See L. Bischoff, Donations Helping DeWine Pay Down Campaign Loan, Springfield News-Sun, Feb. 2, 2012, p. A1.  In Alaska, a lobbyist collected almost $100,000 for post-election repayment of the Governor’s personal loans.  A business in which he held an interest later received a $9 million state contract.  See B. Curry, Alaska Gov. Sheffield’s Impeachment Inquiry Has Overtones of Watergate Scandal, L. A. Times, July 19, 1985, p. 11.  In Kentucky, two Governors loaned their campaigns millions of dollars, “only to be repaid after the election by contributors seeking no-bid contracts.”  J. Moore, Campaign Finance Reform in Kentucky: The Race for Governor, 85 Ky. L. J. 723, 746 (1997).  The scandal those transactions created led to a new state campaign-finance law similar to Section 304.  In upholding that statute, a court more cognizant than this one about how corruption works explained that “heavily indebted candidates” were “easy bedfellows for quid pro quo contributors.”  Wilkinson v. Jones, 876 F. Supp. 916, 930 (WD Ky. 1995).  That is also true on the local level.  In San Diego, to take just one instance, three city council members cast critical votes benefiting lobbyists who had raised funds to retire their campaign debts.  See C. Gustafson, Lobbyists See Benefit From Three City Officials, San Diego Union-Tribune, June 13, 2009, p. A1.[3]

															An empirical study in the record confirms the dangers of corruption shown in those examples.  The study first found, based on data preceding Section 304’s enactment, that politicians carrying campaign debt were “significantly more likely” than their “debt-free counterparts” to “switch their votes” after receiving contributions from special interests.  A. Ovtchinnikov & P. Valta, Debt in Political Campaigns (2020), in No. 1:19–cv–00908 (D DC, July 14, 2020), ECF Doc. 65–1, p. 31.  In other words, officeholders did more in exchange for donations repaying their personal loans than for other donations.  The analysis next looked at Section 304’s effect.  Here, the data showed that politicians with debt exceeding the law’s $250,000 threshold became “significantly less responsive” to contributions than before: They began to “behave remarkably similar to their debt free counterparts.”  Id., at 28; see Ovtchinnikov, Self-Funding 3 (similarly stating that those politicians became more “independent of contributions from special interest[s]”).  In other words, Section 304 did just what Congress thought it would.  By preventing post-election contributions from personally enriching politicians, the provision diminished donor-responsive voting.  The majority tries to undermine those findings by quoting the kind of careful caveats always accompanying good social science.  See ante, at 17; Ovtchinnikov, Self-Funding 21 (noting that the study is a “first step in understanding” and that more work is needed to “fully pin down” all aspects of causation).  But the authors are confident—and rightly so—in the findings just described: that Section 304 markedly decreased the frequency with which officeholders voted as donors would like.  And although the authors could not responsibly claim that all the shifted votes they tallied were part of quid pro quo deals—they are, after all, professors, not the FBI—they deduce from the data that politicians carrying campaign debt were “less likely to [be] sell[ing] access” than to be “sell[ing] votes.”  Id., at 18.

															Finally, the record evidence addresses the “almost equal[ly]” important matter of the appearance of corruption.  Shrink Missouri, 528 U. S., at 390; see supra, at 6–7.  A Government-commissioned survey of public opinion found that 81% of respondents believed it “very likely” or “likely” that a person who “donate[s] money to a candidate’s campaign after the election expect[s] a political favor in return.”  App. 351–353.  That bears repeating: 81%—an overwhelming perception across all demographic categories, as well as across all party affiliations and political ideologies.  See ibid.  As the court reviewing the Kentucky version of Section 304 explained: “[T]here is an impression” when a contribution repays a loan after an election that the contributor is simply “lining the candidate’s pocket, as there is no ongoing campaign to which the contribution may be made.”  Wilkinson, 876 F. Supp., at 930; see supra, at 12.  The majority flyspecks the polling questions: Why didn’t the poll define “political favor”?  Did the poll mention that the contributions had to comply with the $2,900 cap?  And so forth.  See ante, at 17–18.  But really—is it likely that such tinkering would have made a real difference?  The poll results were so lopsided because the post-election contributions Section 304 targets—ones adding to the candidate’s personal wealth—have so conspicuous a potential to corrupt.  The public knows that to be true.  The public’s representatives in Congress knew it to be true.  Only this Court—somehow—does not.

															*  *  *

															“Democracy works only if the people have faith in those who govern.”  Shrink Missouri, 528 U. S., at 390 (internal quotation marks omitted).  And the people cannot have faith in representatives who trade official acts for financial gain.  Section 304 prevents that kind of corruption, at barely discernable cost to
 
First Amendment freedoms.  The provision limits one narrow use of third-party contributions to a campaign, thus “entail[ing] only a marginal restriction” on speech.  Buckley, 424 U. S., at 20.  And the provision targets a practice posing exceptional risks of quid pro quo deals.  Repaying a candidate’s loan after he has won election cannot serve the usual purposes of a contribution: The money comes too late to aid in any of his campaign activities.  All the money does is enrich the candidate personally at a time when he can return the favor—by a vote, a contract, an appointment.  It takes no political genius to see the heightened risk of corruption—the danger of “I’ll make you richer and you’ll make me richer” arrangements between donors and officeholders.  Section 304 has guarded against that threat for two decades, but no longer.  In discarding the statute, the Court fuels non-public-serving, self-interested governance.  It injures the integrity, both actual and apparent, of the political process.  I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 The statement the majority quotes from a former FEC Commissioner does not support any broader understanding of the Government’s claim.  That statement appears in a parenthetical to a citation for the Government’s actual argument: that winning candidates “possess a greater capacity” than losing ones do to get their loans repaid.  App. 31.  And the statement—that “only winners” have “an easy time dealing with debt”—means not that all or most winners do, but instead that no losers do.  Id., at 31–32.  The former Commissioner who made the remark had also served as counsel to a losing presidential campaign, and he was merely observing how hard that campaign had found it to repay debt.  See P. Overby, How Will Clinton Resolve Campaign Debt? National Public Radio, May 14, 2008. 

2
 The majority also fails to recognize that post-election contributions can go toward interest payments, enabling a candidate to turn a tidy profit on top of recovering the amount loaned.  Consider the case of one member of the U. S. House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.  She loaned her campaign $150,000 at an 18% interest rate (no, that is not a typo), and over time collected more than $200,000 in interest payments.  Much of that money came from fundraising events hosted by a lobbying firm representing members of the transportation industry.  See A. Zajac, Interest on Campaign Loan Pays, L. A. Times, Feb. 14, 2009, p. B1.  The example is extreme, but the FEC typically allows candidates to charge their campaigns—which then tap contributors for—a commercially reasonable rate of interest.  See FEC, Campaign Guide for Congressional Candidates and Committees 101 (2021). 

3
 The majority asserts without explanation that these and other similar examples involve not quid pro quo corruption, but only contributors’ exercise of their “greater influence” over candidates.  Ante, at 16.  Even accepting that distinction (as our caselaw does), the majority’s claim is hard to understand.  Here is the quid in the examples: a donation paying off a successful candidate’s personal loan.  And here is the quo: a government contract, or a key vote.  However “vague” the “line between quid pro quo corruption and general influence,” ibid., those exchanges cross it.  The majority must mean that the Government has not proved beyond a doubt that the trades in fact occurred.  But again, that is the wrong standard given (1) the difficulty of such proof and (2) the significant risks of quid pro quo corruption inherent in the above fact patterns.  See supra, at 10–11. 


