::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1052
::decision_name::  United States ex rel. Polansky v. Executive Health Resources, Inc.
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1052

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, ex rel. JESSE POLANSKY,
M.D., M.P.H., PETITIONER v. EXECUTIVE HEALTH RESOURCES,
INC., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the third circuit

															[June 16, 2023]

															

															Justice Thomas, dissenting.

															In my view, the text and structure of the False
Claims Act (FCA), 31 U. S. C.
§§3729–3733, afford the Government no power to
unilaterally dismiss a pending qui tam action after it
has “decline[d] to take over the action” from the
relator at its outset. §3730(b)(4)(B). Thus, I would vacate
the judgment below and remand for the Third Circuit to consider the
serious constitutional questions that may affect the disposition of
the Government’s motion to dismiss petitioner’s
qui tam suit. Because the Court instead affirms, I
respectfully dissent.

															I

															The FCA provides that private parties known as
relators may bring qui tam suits “for
[themselves] and for the United States Government.”
§3730(b)(1). It then sets out a reticulated scheme to govern
the initiation of a qui tam suit, see §3730(b);
the parties’ procedural rights during the suit, see
§3730(c); and the rights of the parties to any proceeds at the
end of the suit, see §3730(d). See also ante, at
2–6, 18–21. The main structural feature of this scheme
is the so-called seal period: a window of time at the start of
every FCA qui tam action during which the suit is on
hold and the Government must “elect” whether “to
intervene and proceed with the action,” §3730(b)(2), or,
alternatively, to “declin[e] to take over the action”
and allow the relator to proceed, §3730(b)(4)(B).

															This case requires us to decide whether the
Government enjoys the same panoply of procedural rights when it
takes over an action during the seal period and when (as here) it
intervenes in the action “at a later date” after the
relator has “proceed[ed] with the action.”
§3730(c)(3). Today, the Court holds that the Government has
all of the same procedural rights in both circumstances, including
the right to “dismiss the action notwithstanding the
objections of the [relator].” §3730(c)(2)(A). I would
instead hold that the structure of the FCA’s
qui tam provisions and the clear text of
§3730(c)(3) do not permit the Government to seize the reins
from the relator to unilaterally dismiss the suit after declining
to proceed with an action during the seal period.

															To bring out the statutory structure, it is
helpful to take the FCA’s qui tam provisions from
the top. Under §3730(b)(2), the first step in a
qui tam suit is for the relator to file the complaint
in camera and under seal, serving it on the Government but
not the defendant. That filing starts the clock on a 60-day window
in which “[t]he Government may elect to intervene and proceed
with the action.” §3730(b)(2). The Government may move
to extend this seal period for cause, see §3730(b)(3), but,
ultimately, the Government faces a binary choice. It must either:
“(A) proceed with the action, in which case the action shall
be conducted by the Government; or (B) notify the court that it
declines to take over the action, in which case the [relator] shall
have the right to conduct the action.” §3730(b)(4).
Thus, under §3730(b)(4), the Government’s seal-period
choice to “proceed with the action” or not determines
who “shall” “conduct” the suit—the
Government or the relator.

															Section 3730(c) picks up at this critical
juncture, defining the respective litigating rights of the
Government and the relator based on the Government’s choice
to “proceed with the action” or not. First, paragraph
(1) of subsection (c) (or, paragraph (c)(1)) provides: “If
the Government proceeds with the action, it shall have the primary
responsibility for prosecuting the action,” but the relator
“shall have the right to continue as a party to the action,
subject to [paragraph (c)(2)’s] limitations.”[1] As used here, the phrase
“proceeds with the action” naturally refers to the same
seal-period choice for which §3730 uses the same phrase in
paragraph (b)(2) and subparagraph (b)(4)(A). And the Government
“hav[ing] the primary responsibility for prosecuting the
action” appears synonymous with the Government
“conduct[ing]” the action under subparagraph (b)(4)(A).
See 3 Oxford English Dictionary 691 (2d ed. 1989) (defining
“conduct” as “[t]o lead, command, direct,
manage”).

															By contrast, paragraph (c)(3) provides:
“If the Government elects not to proceed with the action, the
[relator] shall have the right to conduct the action.” The
conditional clause of this sentence is a clear reference to the
seal-period “elect[ion]” described in paragraph
(b)(2).[2] Likewise, the result
clause plainly echoes “the right to conduct the action”
referred to under subparagraph (b)(4)(B), which the relator
acquires when the Government does not “proceed with the
action” under subparagraph (b)(4)(A) at the end of the seal
period.

															In short, the initial clauses of paragraphs
(c)(1) and (c)(3) track subparagraphs (b)(4)(A) and (b)(4)(B) and
point back to the Government’s seal-period choice to
“proceed with the action” or not. If the Government
chooses to proceed with the action under §3730(b)(4)(A), then
paragraph (c)(1) applies, along with the conditions of paragraph
(c)(2). Conversely, if the Government elects not to proceed with
the action under §3730(b)(4)(B), then paragraph (c)(3)
applies.

															To be sure, the last sentence of paragraph
(c)(3) provides: “When [the relator] proceeds with the
action, the court, without limiting the status and rights of the
[relator], may nevertheless permit the Government to intervene at a
later date upon a showing of good cause.” But this sentence
is not, as the majority reads it, a secret pass in paragraph (c)(3)
that leads the parties back to their relative rights under
paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2). See ante, at 10–13. The
sentence itself makes that clear by cautioning that the
Government’s later intervention may not “limi[t] the
status and rights of the [relator].” §3730(c)(3). Read
in the context of §§3730(b)(4) and (c), this
“without limiting” condition clearly preserves the
relator’s status as an autonomous litigant and the
“right to conduct the action” that he acquired when the
Government declined to take over the action at its inception. In
other words, the plain import of the condition is that the relator
keeps “the right to conduct the action” under
§§3730(b)(4)(B) and (c)(3), as opposed to being demoted
to paragraph (c)(1)’s inferior “right to continue as a
party” with the restrictions set out in paragraph (c)(2).

															The majority short-circuits this straightforward
conclusion by essentially stipulating that the Government
“proceeds with the action”—and thus activates
paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2)—whenever it is a party,
regardless of when and how it became a party. See
ante, at 11, and n. 3. Nothing in the FCA’s
overall text or structure favors that interpretation. Nor does the
text of paragraph (c)(3). When that provision describes the
Government “interven[ing]” after the seal period, it
does not use the phrase “proceed with the action”
(except in reference to the relator). Cf. §3730(b)(2)
(“The Government may elect to intervene and proceed
with the action” (emphasis added)). Nor is the
majority’s understanding compelled by the ordinary meaning of
the term “proceed.” To “proceed” means to
move forward, generally with the distinctive connotation of moving
forward from a particular point. See 12 Oxford English
Dictionary, at 544 (“[t]o go, move, or travel forward; to
make one’s way onward; esp. to move onward after
interruption or stoppage, or after reaching a certain
point”). That idea fits the FCA like a glove. The Government
“proceeds with the action”—as that phrase is used
in §§3730(b)(2), (b)(4)(A), (c)(1), and (c)(3)—if
it chooses to move forward with an action from the seal period,
which is specifically set up for the Government to decide whether
to “proceed with the action,” §3730(b)(2).

															The majority’s interpretation of
“proceeds with the action” in turn dictates an
unnatural reading of paragraph (c)(3)’s “without
limiting” condition. When the FCA says that the
Government’s belated intervention may not
“limi[t]” the relator’s “status and
rights,” it naturally means the status and rights that the
relator actually enjoyed under paragraph (c)(3) immediately before
the Government sought to intervene. By contrast, to accommodate its
misreading of “proceeds with the action,” the majority
is compelled to read paragraph (c)(3) to protect only the status
and rights that the relator would have enjoyed in an
alternative timeline where the Government intervened during the
seal period and paragraph (c)(3) never came into play at all. See
ante, at 12. That reading is counterintuitive, to say the
least.

															Nor is that the end of the problems with the
majority’s “seal-agnostic view.” Ibid.
Immediately below subsection (c), §§3730(d)(1) and (d)(2)
establish two alternative ranges for the relator’s share of
any recovery at the end of a qui tam action. Like the
parties’ litigation rights under paragraphs (c)(1) and
(c)(3), those ranges depend on whether the Government has
“proceed[ed] with” the action or not. “If the
Government proceeds with an action brought . . . under
subsection (b),” the relator is usually entitled to between
15 and 25 percent of any recovery. §3730(d)(1). Conversely,
“[i]f the Government does not proceed with [the]
action,” the relator is entitled to 25 to 30 percent.
§3730(d)(2). Given the majority’s view that intervention
under paragraph (c)(3) counts as “proceed[ing] with the
action,” it follows that even an eleventh-hour intervention
by the Government would automatically shunt the relator out of
paragraph (d)(2)’s more generous range and into paragraph
(d)(1)’s less generous one. Surely, that result would qualify
as “limiting the [relator’s] status and rights.”
§3730(c)(3).

															The majority bolsters its tenuous textual and
structural case with an appeal to “the FCA’s
Government-centered purposes.” Ante, at 12. But
“every statute purposes, not only to achieve certain ends,
but also to achieve them by particular means.” Freeman
v. Quicken Loans, Inc., 566 U.S.
624, 637 (2012) (alteration and internal quotation marks
omitted). And, while it is certainly the FCA’s ultimate goal
to “redress injuries against the Government,”
ante, at 12–13, its chosen means is to empower private
parties to seek redress of those injuries through litigation that
the Government does not necessarily control and might not have
brought if left to its own devices. Allowing the relator to
maintain the suit after the Government has declined its initial
opportunity to take it over (even if only to dismiss it) is fully
consistent with the FCA.

															Indeed, the FCA’s history undermines the
majority’s free-floating account of its
“purposes.” As enacted in 1863, the original FCA
contained no provision for the Government to intervene in a
relator’s suit at all. See 12 Stat. 698. In 1943,
Congress first gave the Government that opportunity by creating the
60-day seal period, which it set up to function as the very
“on-off switch” the majority seems to consider
implausible, ante, at 13: Either the Government intervened
during the seal period and assumed sole control of the action, or
it did not intervene and was permanently excluded from the action.
See 57 Stat. 608–609. Finally, in 1986, Congress revamped the
FCA into its modern form, under which (as never before) the
Government and the relator can litigate side by side as
co-plaintiffs in the same action. In creating this possibility,
Congress tweaked both halves of the previous regime in roughly
parallel ways. If the Government intervenes during the seal period,
paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) now permit the relator to remain a
party and play a role in the litigation—but only a
subordinate role. Conversely, if the Government does not intervene
and proceed with the action during the seal period, it is not
forever barred from taking a litigating role—but, if it
intervenes later, it does not downgrade the relator’s
“status and rights” to those of a second-chair
litigant. §3730(c)(3).

															In sum, the text, structure, and history of the
FCA all point to the same conclusion. The FCA affords the
Government no statutory right to unilaterally dismiss a declined
action when it intervenes under §3730(c)(3).

															II

															However, the text and structure of the FCA are
not the end of the story. Defendant-respondent has pointed to
serious constitutional questions that might affect the disposition
of the Government’s motion here. At the same time, it is not
clear that the parties have examined these questions in their full
complexity, and the Third Circuit’s reading of §3730(c)
gave it no reason to do so. Therefore, after holding that the
Government could not invoke the dismissal authority of
§3730(c)(2)(A) as a statutory matter, I would remand this case
for the Third Circuit to consider whether the Constitution
nonetheless requires the dismissal of petitioner’s suit.

															The FCA’s qui tam provisions
have long inhabited something of a constitutional twilight zone.
There are substantial arguments that the qui tam device
is inconsistent with Article II and that private relators may not
represent the interests of the United States in litigation. Because
“[t]he entire ‘executive Power’ belongs to the
President alone,” Seila Law LLC v. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, 591 U. S. ___, ___ (2020)
(slip op., at 11), it can only be exercised by the President and
those acting under him, see id., at ___ (slip op., at 2)
(Thomas, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). And, as
“[a] lawsuit is the ultimate remedy for a breach of the
law,” the Court has held that “conducting civil
litigation . . . for vindicating public rights” of
the United States is an “executive functio[n]” that
“may be discharged only by persons who are ‘Officers of
the United States’ ” under the Appointments
Clause, Art. II, §2, cl. 2. Buckley v.
Valeo, 424 U.S.
1, 138–140 (1976) (per curiam) (some internal
quotation marks omitted). A private relator under the FCA, however,
is not “appointed as an officer of the United States”
under Article II. Cochise Consultancy, Inc. v. United
States ex rel. Hunt, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip
op., at 8). It thus appears to follow that Congress cannot
authorize a private relator to wield executive authority to
represent the United States’ interests in civil
litigation.

															The potential inconsistency of
qui tam suits with Article II has been noticed for
decades. See, e.g., Riley v. St. Luke’s
Episcopal Hospital, 
252 F.3d 749, 758–775 (CA5 2001) (en banc) (Smith, J.,
dissenting); J. Blanch, Note, The Constitutionality of the False
Claims Act’s Qui Tam Provision, 16 Harv.
J. L. & Pub. Pol’y 701, 736–767 (1993);
Constitutionality of the Qui Tam Provisions of the False
Claims Act, 13 Op. OLC 207, 221–224, 228–232 (1989).
The primary counterargument has emphasized the long historical
pedigree of qui tam suits, including the fact that the
First Congress passed a handful of qui tam statutes.
See, e.g., Vermont Agency of Natural Resources v.
United States ex rel. Stevens, 529 U.S.
765, 801 (2000) (Stevens, J., dissenting); Riley, 252
F. 3d, at 752–753 (“[H]istory alone resolves
. . . whether the qui tam provisions in the FCA
violate Article II”). “Standing alone,” however,
“historical patterns cannot justify contemporary violations
of constitutional guarantees,” Marsh v.
Chambers, 463 U.S.
783, 790 (1983), even when the practice in question
“covers our entire national existence and indeed predates
it,” Walz v. Tax Comm’n of City of New
York, 397 U.S.
664, 678 (1970). Nor is enactment by the First Congress a
guarantee of a statute’s constitutionality. See
Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch 137 (1803). Finally, we
should be especially careful not to overread the early history of
federal qui tam statutes given that the
Constitution’s creation of a separate Executive Branch
coequal to the Legislature was a structural departure from the
English system of parliamentary supremacy, from which many legal
practices like qui tam were inherited. See S. Prakash, The
Chief Prosecutor, 73 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 521, 589 (2005)
(noting that, for this reason, “we ought to be cautious about
importing English constraints or exceptions to the executive power,
when those limitations might be based on the principle of
parliamentary supremacy”).

															In short, there is good reason to suspect that
Article II does not permit private relators to represent the United
States’ interests in FCA suits. However, even if that is
true, the follow-on implications may not be as straightforward as
they appear at first glance. Under the FCA, the relator brings suit
“for [himself]” as well as “for the United
States Government.” §3730(b)(1) (emphasis added). In
Stevens, we read this language “as effecting a partial
assignment of the Government’s damages claim,” which
provided “the theoretical justification” for our
holding “that a qui tam relator under the FCA has
Article III standing.” 529 U. S., at 773, 778. For that
holding to make sense, it appears that this assignment must be
effective no later than the point in time at which the Government
declines to intervene in the seal period and the relator may
proceed with the action as the only plaintiff in court.

															Under Stevens’ partial-assignment
theory, it is not immediately clear that the Government may dismiss
the relator’s interest in a qui tam suit,
even assuming that the relator’s representation of the
United States’ interest is unconstitutional. Whether the
Government may do so may depend on the implicit conditions of the
assignment; conceivably, it may also depend on whether the
assignment is severable from the FCA’s attempt to vest the
authority to represent the United States in litigation in a party
outside the Executive Branch.

															In examining these issues, moreover, it may be
necessary to consider a question that Stevens left
unaddressed: What is the source of Congress’ power to effect
partial assignments of the United States’ damages claims? One
candidate might be the Necessary and Proper Clause, Art. I,
§8, cl. 18; but, if qui tam suits violate Article
II, then it appears unlikely that any assignment effectuated by the
FCA’s qui tam provisions could be considered
“necessary and proper for carrying into Execution” any
constitutional power. See Gonzales v. Raich,
545 U.S.
1, 60 (2005) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (“To act under the
Necessary and Proper Clause,” “Congress must select a
means” not “ ‘prohibited’ by the
Constitution” or “inconsistent with ‘the letter
and spirit of the Constitution’ ” (quoting
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421 (1819);
alteration omitted)). Alternatively, such assignments might rely at
least partly on the Property Clause, which empowers Congress
“to dispose of and make all needful Rules and Regulations
respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the United
States,” and which may include the power to assign claims for
damages as “other Property.” Art. IV, §3,
cl. 2; see also D. Engdahl, The Basis of the Spending Power,
18 Seattle U. L. Rev. 215, 256–257 (1995) (“The
Article IV Property Clause is most familiar, of course, in its
application to landed property, . . . but it has
been recognized as applying to personal property as
well”).

															In any event, these are complex questions, which
I would leave for the parties and the court below to consider after
resolving the statutory issues that have been the focus of this
case up to now.[3] Therefore, I
would vacate the judgment below granting the Government’s
motion to dismiss and remand for the Third Circuit to consider the
correct disposition of that motion in light of any applicable
constitutional requirements.

Notes
1
 The remainder of
paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) largely describe the contours of the
Government’s primary responsibility vis-à-vis the
relator’s circumscribed litigation rights. I agree with the
Court’s holding that paragraph (c)(2) is clearly subordinate
to paragraph (c)(1). See ante, at 8–10.
2
 One other provision of
the FCA refers to the Government “making an election under
section 3730(b),” which likewise clearly signifies the
seal-period decision. 31 U. S. C.
§3733(a)(1).
3
 For two reasons, the fact
that my reading of §3730 would require confronting these
constitutional questions in this case does not counsel in favor of
a different interpretation. First, principles of constitutional
avoidance can operate only “in the choice of fair
alternatives,” not when the text and structure of a statute
point to a clear answer. United States v. Rumely,
345 U.S.
41, 45 (1953); see also Skilling v. United
States, 561 U.S.
358, 423 (2010) (Scalia, J., concurring in part and concurring
in judgment). Second, the force of constitutional-avoidance
principles is inherently limited where, as here, the choice of
interpretations is tangential to the constitutional questions at
stake. On any interpretation, the FCA purports to authorize private
parties to represent the United States in litigation. That basic
feature of the qui tam device must be the core of any
Article II objection to the FCA. If it is constitutionally
problematic, then the majority’s interpretation of the FCA
does not cure the problem; on the other hand, if
qui tam is constitutional, then there is no
constitutional problem to avoid.


