::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1043
::decision_name::  Abitron Austria GmbH v. Hetronic International, Inc.
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1043

															_________________

															ABITRON AUSTRIA GmbH, et al., PETITIONERS
v. HETRONIC INTERNATIONAL, INC.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the tenth circuit

															[June 29, 2023]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom The Chief
Justice, Justice Kagan, and Justice Barrett join, concurring in the
judgment.

															Sections 32(1)(a) and 43(a)(1)(A) of the Lanham
Act prohibit trademark infringement and unfair competition
activities that are “likely to cause confusion, or to cause
mistake, or to deceive.” 60Stat. 437, 441, as amended, 15
U. S. C. §§1114(1)(a), 1125(a)(1)(A).[1] The issue in this case is whether,
and to what extent, these provisions apply to activities that occur
in a foreign country. I agree with the majority’s conclusion
that the decision below must be vacated. I disagree, however, with
the extraterritoriality framework that the Court adopts today. In
my view, §§32(1)(a) and 43(a)(1)(A) of the Lanham Act
extends to activities carried out abroad when there is a likelihood
of consumer confusion in the United States.

															I

															This Court previously considered the
extraterritoriality of the Lanham Act in Steele v. Bulova
Watch Co., 344 U.S.
280 (1952). There, the Court applied the Lanham Act to
trademark infringement and unfair competition activities that
occurred abroad but confused consumers in the United States. See
id., at 281, 286–287. Because the Court decided
Steele 70 years ago, it had no occasion to apply the
two-step framework that the Court has since developed for
evaluating the extraterritorial reach of a statute. A proper
application of that framework, however, leads to a result
consistent with Steele: Although there is no clear
indication that the Lanham Act provisions at issue rebut the
presumption against extraterritoriality at step one, a domestic
application of the statute can implicate foreign conduct at step
two, so long as the plaintiff proves a likelihood of consumer
confusion domestically.

															A

															In Steele, the Bulova Watch Company,
Inc., a New York corporation that marketed watches under the
registered U. S. mark “Bulova,” sued Sidney
Steele, a U. S. citizen and resident of Texas with a watch
business in Mexico City. Id., at 281, 284. Upon discovering
that the mark “Bulova” was not registered in Mexico,
Steele obtained the Mexican registration of the mark, assembled
watches in Mexico using component parts he had procured from the
United States and Switzerland, and “stamped his watches with
‘Bulova’ and sold them as such.” Id., at
281, 284–285. As a result, “spurious
‘Bulovas’ filtered through the Mexican border into this
country,” causing a Bulova Watch Company’s sales
representative in the United States to “receiv[e] numerous
complaints from retail jewelers in the Mexican border area [of
Texas] whose customers brought in for repair defective
‘Bulovas’ which upon inspection often turned out not to
be products of that company.” Id., at 285–286.
Steele “committed no illegal acts within the United
States.” Id., at 282.

															The Court held that, because Steele’s
“operations and their effects were not confined within the
territorial limits of a foreign nation,” the Lanham Act
applied to Steele’s activities. Id., at 286. The Court
emphasized that Steele’s conduct had the potential to
“reflect adversely on Bulova Watch Company’s trade
reputation” in the United States. Ibid. By contrast,
the fact that Steele “affixed the mark ‘Bulova’
in Mexico City rather than here” was not
“material.” Id., at 287.

															B

															Following Steele, the Courts of Appeals
developed various tests, modeled after Steele’s facts,
to address the Lanham Act’s extraterritorial reach.[2] This Court also subsequently adopted
a two-step framework for determining when a statute can apply
extraterritorially to foreign conduct. That framework implements
“a canon of statutory construction known as the presumption
against extraterritoriality.” RJR Nabisco, Inc. v.
European Community, 579 U.S. 325, 335 (2016). The presumption
reflects the “longstanding principle of American law that
legislation of Congress, unless a contrary intent appears, is meant
to apply only within the territorial jurisdiction of the United
States.” Morrison v. National Australia Bank
Ltd., 561 U.S.
247, 255 (2010) (internal quotation marks omitted). That is,
courts presume that, “in general, ‘United States law
governs domestically but does not rule the
world.’ ” RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at
335 (quoting Microsoft Corp. v. AT&T Corp.,
550 U.S.
437, 454 (2007)).

															Under this framework, the Court first asks
“whether the presumption against extraterritoriality has been
rebutted” by “a clear, affirmative indication that [the
statute] applies extraterritorially.” RJR Nabisco, 579
U. S., at 337. If the presumption is not rebutted at that
first step, the Court then proceeds to determine at step two
“whether the case involves a domestic application of the
statute.” Ibid. To determine whether a domestic
application exists, the Court must ascertain the statute’s
“focus,” i.e., “the objec[t] of the
statute’s solicitude.” Morrison, 561 U. S.,
at 266–267.

															As I explain below, although I agree with the
result the Court reaches with respect to the first step, I disagree
with its analysis at step two.

															1

															Sections 32(1)(a) and 43(a)(1)(A) of the
Lanham Act impose civil liability on a defendant who “use[s]
in commerce” a trademark in a manner that is “likely to
cause confusion, or to cause mistake, or to deceive.” 15
U. S. C. §§1114(1)(a), 1125(a)(1)(A). The Act
in turn defines “commerce” as “all commerce which
may lawfully be regulated by Congress.” §1127.

															Under this Court’s precedents, this
language is insufficient to rebut the presumption against
extraterritoriality at step one. The Court has “repeatedly
held that even statutes that contain broad language in their
definitions of ‘commerce’ that expressly refer to
‘foreign commerce’ do not apply abroad” to
all foreign conduct. Morrison, 561 U. S., at
262–263 (internal quotation marks omitted); see also RJR
Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 344 (a statute’s reference to
“foreign commerce” does not “mean literally all
commerce occurring abroad”). The Court has also explained
“that generic terms like ‘any’ or
‘every’ do not rebut the presumption.”
Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., 569
U.S. 108, 118 (2013). The term “all” is not
meaningfully different. While “the word conveys
breadth,” Peter v. NantKwest, Inc., 589
U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 7), it does not rebut the
presumption either.

															2

															The Court’s inquiry at step two centers
on the “focus” of the statutory provisions. Like the
Court’s analysis at step one, this inquiry is contextual; the
Court “do[es] not analyze the provision at issue in a
vacuum.” WesternGeco LLC v. ION Geophysical
Corp., 585 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 6). Rather,
the Court looks at the provision “in concert” with
other relevant provisions and considers “how the statute has
actually been applied.” Ibid. The aim of determining
the statutory focus is to assess what constitutes a domestic
application of the statute. An application is domestic when the
object of the statute’s focus is found in, or occurs in, the
United States. See, e.g., Morrison, 561 U. S.,
at 266–267, 273 (where the “focus of the Exchange
Act” is “purchases and sales of securities,”
there is no domestic application of the statute when those
purchases and securities “occurred outside the United
States,” regardless of “the place where the deception
originated”).

															The parties offer different interpretations of
the focus of §§32(1)(a) and 43(a)(1)(A). Petitioners
argue that the focus of the statute is the “use” of the
mark “in commerce.” Brief for Petitioners 39. Under
petitioners’ theory, the Lanham Act does not reach any
infringing products sold abroad; instead, the defendant must sell
the products directly into the United States. Id., at
44–45. Respondent, by contrast, argues that the Act has two
distinct focuses: protecting mark owners from reputational harm and
protecting consumers from confusion. Brief for Respondent
45–48. Under respondent’s view, reputational harm to
the mark owner “is not necessarily tied to the locus of
[consumer] confusion or the locus of the [defendant’s]
conduct.” Id., at 47. Instead, respondent asserts,
harm to a mark owner’s reputation “is felt where [the
mark owner] resides.” Ibid. The Government, as
amicus curiae supporting neither party, offers a middle
ground. In its view, the focus of the statute is consumer
confusion. See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 14
(United States Brief ). Accordingly, “[w]here such
effects are likely to occur in the United States, application of
Sections 32(1)(a) and 43(a)(1)(A) is a permissible domestic
application of the Act, even if the defendant’s own conduct
occurred elsewhere.” Ibid.

															I agree with the Government’s position.
Sections 32(1)(a) and 43(a)(1)(A) of the Act prohibit specific
types of “use[s] in commerce”: uses that are
“likely to cause confusion, or to cause mistake, or to
deceive.” 15 U. S. C. §§1114(1)(a),
1125(a)(1)(A). The statute thus makes clear that prohibiting the
use in commerce is “merely the means by which the statute
achieves its end” of protecting consumers from confusion.
WesternGeco LLC, 585 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8).
Stated differently, “a competitor’s use does not
infringe a mark unless it is likely to confuse consumers.”
Patent and Trademark Office v. Booking.com B.V., 591
U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 12); see 4 J. McCarthy,
Trademarks and Unfair Competition §23:1, p. 23–9
(5th ed. 2023) (McCarthy) (“[L]ikelihood of confusion is the
keystone of trademark infringement”). Because the
statute’s focus is protection against consumer confusion, the
statute covers foreign infringement activities if there is a
likelihood of consumer confusion in the United States and all other
conditions for liability are established. See infra, at
12.

															Treating consumer confusion as the focus of the
Act is consistent with Steele, which focused on the domestic
“effects” of the defendant’s foreign conduct. 344
U. S., at 286. Steele emphasized that, although the
defendant did not affix the mark or sell the products in the United
States, “spurious ‘Bulovas’ filtered through the
Mexican border into this country,” causing consumer confusion
here. Id., at 285–287. These domestic effects, the
Court reasoned, could “reflect adversely on Bulova Watch
Company’s trade reputation” in the United States.
Id., at 286. In other words, consistent with the statutory
text, Steele focused on the impact of the defendant’s
foreign conduct on the consumer market in the United States (in
accord with the Government’s view here), not the location of
the original sale of the infringing product or the location of the
trademark owner’s business (contrary to petitioners’
and respondent’s views here).

															The Court’s precedent also supports the
view that an application of a statute can be considered domestic
even when foreign conduct is implicated. In Morrison, for
example, the Court concluded that §10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, 48Stat. 891, “does not punish deceptive
conduct, but only deceptive conduct ‘in connection with the
purchase or sale of ’ ” securities in the
United States. 561 U. S., at 266 (quoting 15
U. S. C. §78j(b)). Thus, “the focus of the
Exchange Act is not upon the place where the deception originated,
but upon purchases and sales of securities in the United
States.” 561 U. S., at 266. “Those
purchase-and-sale transactions are the objects of the
statute’s solicitude.” Id., at 267. Under
Morrison, a domestic application of §10(b) covers
misrepresentations made abroad, so long as the deceptive conduct
bears the requisite connection to the statute’s focus: the
domestic purchase or sale of a security. Similarly, under
§§32(1)(a) and 43(a)(1)(A) of the Lanham Act, uses of a
mark in commerce are actionable when they cause a likelihood of
consumer confusion in the United States, even when the conduct
originates abroad.

															II

															The Court agrees with petitioners’
bottom line that the Lanham Act requires a domestic “use in
commerce.” See ante, at 7–10. According to the
majority, the “ ‘use in commerce’ provides
the dividing line between foreign and domestic applications of
these Lanham Act provisions.” Ante, at 10. Yet the
majority does not actually take a stance on the focus of the Act or
apply this Court’s settled law. Instead, to reach its
conclusion, the majority transforms the Court’s
extraterritoriality framework into a myopic conduct-only test.

															Specifically, instead of discerning the
statute’s focus and assessing whether that focus is found
domestically, as the Court’s precedents command, the majority
now requires a third step: an assessment of whether the
“conduct relevant to the focus” occurred domestically,
even when the focus of the statute is not conduct. Ante, at
9. Making matters even more confusing, the majority skips over the
middle step of this new framework, concluding that it is
unnecessary to discern the focus of the Lanham Act because
“the conduct relevant to any potential focus” that
“the parties have proffered” must be “use in
commerce,” since that is conduct mentioned in the statute.
Ibid.[3] In other words,
under the Court’s unprecedented three-step framework, no
statute can reach relevant conduct abroad, no matter the true
object of the statute’s solicitude.

															The Court’s novel approach transforms the
traditional inquiry at step two into a conduct-only test, in direct
conflict with this Court’s jurisprudence. The Court has
expressly recognized that a statute’s “focus” can
be “conduct,” “parties,” or
“interests” that Congress sought to protect or
regulate. WesternGeco LLC, 585 U. S., at ___ (slip op.,
at 8) (internal quotation marks omitted); see also Morrison,
561 U. S., at 266 (“the focus of the Exchange Act is not
upon the place where the deception originated”). After all,
not every federal statute subject to an extraterritoriality
analysis “directly regulate[s] conduct.” Kiobel,
569 U. S., at 116.

															Because precedent does not support the
Court’s recitation of the extraterritoriality framework, the
majority retreats to a distorted reading of the Court’s past
decisions. The majority relies on RJR Nabisco, see
ante, at 9, but that case does not support the
majority’s course. The Court in RJR Nabisco noted that
the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act’s
civil suit provision requires an “injury to business or
property.” 579 U. S., at 354. The Court then concluded
that there is a domestic application of that provision so long as
there is a “domestic injury.” Ibid. In other
words, the Court held that the focus of the statute had to occur
domestically. It did not require a third step.

															The Court also repeatedly quotes from cases
where the Court has said that a domestic application requires that
“the conduct relevant to the statute’s focus occurred
in the United States.” Ante, 4–5, 10. In those
cases, however, the Court first concluded (or assumed without
deciding) that the focus of the provision at issue was
conduct, and only then proceeded to consider whether the relevant
conduct occurred domestically. In WesternGeco, for example,
the Court considered the extraterritorial application of
§271(f )(2) of the Patent Act, which formed “the
basis for [the plaintiff ’s] infringement claim.”
585 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7). The “focus” of
that provision, the Court concluded, is the “act of
‘suppl[ying] in or from the United
States,’ ” so the conduct “relevant to that
focus” was the defendant’s “domestic act of
supplying the components that infringed [the
plaintiff ’s] patents.” Id., at
___–___ (slip op., at 7–8); see also Nestlé
USA, Inc. v. Doe, 593 U. S. ___, ___–___
(2021) (slip op., at 4–5) (assuming without deciding that
“the ‘focus’ of the [statute] is conduct that
violates international law” and then concluding that conduct
relevant to that focus “occurred in Ivory Coast”). In
other words, the Court looked to whether the focus of the statute
at issue occurred domestically.

															In sum, none of the cases upon which the
majority relies establish categorically that there must be domestic
conduct in order for there to be a domestic application of a
statute. Calling this requirement “straightforward,”
“established precedent” does not make it so.
Ante, at 10–11.[4]

															The Court’s transformative approach
thwarts Congress’ ability to regulate important
“interests” or “parties” that Congress has
the power to regulate. WesternGeco LLC, 585 U. S., at
___ (slip op., at 6). Some statutes may have a statutory
focus that is not strictly conduct and that implicates some conduct
abroad. Cf., e.g., F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd
v. Empagran S. A., 542 U.S.
155, 165 (2004) (recognizing the long-established view that U.
S. antitrust laws “reflect a legislative effort to redress
domestic antitrust injury that foreign anticompetitive conduct has
caused” (emphasis deleted)). Under the Court’s new
categorical rule, those statutes may not cover relevant conduct
occurring abroad, even if that conduct impacts domestic interests
that Congress sought to protect. At bottom, by reframing the
inquiry at step two as a conduct-only test, the Court’s new
rule frustrates a key function of the presumption against
extraterritoriality: to discern congressional meaning and
“preserv[e] a stable background against which Congress can
legislate with predictable effects” to protect domestic
interests, Morrison, 561 U. S., at 261, including those
of U. S. trademark owners and consumers.

															The Court’s analysis is also inconsistent
with Steele. Ac-

															

															cording to the Court, “Steele
implicated both domestic conduct and a likelihood of domestic
confusion,” so it offers no guidance in resolving this case.
Ante, at 8. No court of appeals has read
Steele that way, and for good reason: Steele clearly
recognized that infringing acts consummated abroad fall under the
purview of the Lanham Act when they generate consumer confusion in
the United States. See supra, at 2–3,
6–7.[5] Finding
Steele “of little assistance” to its blinkered
approach, the majority reduces Steele to a
“narrow” case with no application beyond its facts.
Ante, at 8. Steele is no such thing. It
addressed the weighty question whether the Lanham Act
“extend[s] beyond the boundaries of the United States,”
344 U. S., at 285, and has guided the lower courts’
extraterritoriality analysis for more than 70 years. The Court
should not “put aside” the Court’s precedent
merely because it is convenient to do so. Ante, at 8.

															Because the Court cannot ground its holding in
precedent, it turns to abstract policy considerations. According to
the majority, the focus of the Lanham Act cannot center on consumer
confusion, despite Steele and the statute’s clear
textual clues, because any focus other than conduct is too
uncertain and “would create headaches for lower
courts.” Ante, at 11. The Court’s conclusion,
however, is based on the incorrect assumption that “merely a
likelihood of an effect in this country” would be sufficient
to hold a defendant liable under the Act. Ante, at 12
(emphasis deleted). What the Lanham Act requires is a likelihood of
confusion in the United States, not some abstract and undefined
“effect.” The likelihood-of-confusion test comes
straight from the statute’s text. As petitioners and the
Court acknowledge, it is at the very core of the inquiry under
§§32(1)(a) and 43(a)(1)(A). See Brief for Petitioners
47–48; ante, at 9. Assessing likelihood of confusion
may require a nuanced test, but it is the test that Congress chose
and that courts already apply.

															In addition, any plaintiff would need to do more
than point to mere likelihood of confusion; as with any cause of
action, the plaintiff must establish all necessary elements for
recovery. For example, although “use in commerce” is
not the statute’s focus, the statute still requires that the
plaintiff establish a “use in commerce.”
§§1114(1)(a), 1125(a)(1)(A). As Steele shows,
because “commerce” includes all commerce that Congress
has the power to regulate, §1127, some foreign sales can fall
under the statute’s reach. See also RJR Nabisco, 579
U. S., at 344 (the term “ ‘foreign
commerce’ ” does not “mean literally all
commerce occurring abroad,” but it includes “commerce
directly involving the United States,” including
“commerce between the United States and a foreign
country”).[6] Plaintiffs
must also generally show, for example, that their “injuries
are proximately caused by violations of the statute.”
Lexmark Int’l, Inc. v. Static Control Components,
Inc., 572 U.S.
118, 132 (2014). The Court is thus mistaken that
“abstract consumer confusion is sufficient” to recover
under the Lanham Act. Ante, at 14.

															The Court also incorrectly concludes that a test
that focuses on domestic consumer confusion conflicts with the
territoriality principle of trademark law. See ante, at
12–14. That principle recognizes that a trademark has
separate legal existence in each country where the mark “is
registered or legally recognized.” 5 McCarthy §29:1, at
29–5; see Ingenohl v. Olsen & Co.,
273 U.S.
541, 544 (1927) (noting that a trademark secured in one country
“depend[s] for its protection” there and
“confer[s] no rights” elsewhere). Thus, to obtain the
benefits that flow from trademark rights, such as the “right
to a non-confused public,” the plaintiff must secure those
rights in the country where it wants protection. 1 McCarthy
§2:10, at 2–24.

															A focus on consumer confusion in the United
States is consistent with that international system. That focus
properly cabins the Act’s reach to foreign conduct that
results in infringing products causing consumer confusion
domestically while “leaving to foreign jurisdictions the
authority to remedy confusion within their territories.”
United States Brief 25–26; see Brief for European Commission
on Behalf of the European Union as Amicus Curiae 6
(“The test for infringement in the European Union, including
in Germany, like the United States, assesses whether there is a
likelihood of consumer confusion”). In other words, applying
the Lanham Act to domestic consumer confusion promotes the benefits
of U. S. trademark rights in the territory of the United
States.

															The Court’s approach, by contrast, would
absolve from liability those defendants who sell infringing
products abroad that reach the United States and confuse consumers
here. That resulting consumer confusion in the United States,
however, falls squarely within the scope of the interests that the
Lanham Act seeks to protect.[7]

															The Court’s arguments about the impending
“ international discord” that will result from the
Government’s approach are simply overblown. Ante, at
12 (internal quotation marks omitted). There is no evidence
that Steele, which is consistent with a focus on domestic
consumer confusion, has created any international tension since it
was decided more than 70 years ago. Moreover, as even petitioners
acknowledge, purely foreign sales with no connection to the United
States are unlikely to confuse consumers domestically. See Brief
for Petitioners 44. Foreign companies with purely foreign
operations also have at their disposal important defenses grounded
in due process and international comity principles, including the
ability to dismiss a case in the United States for lack of personal
jurisdiction or on the ground of forum non conveniens. See,
e.g., Piper Aircraft Co. v. Reyno, 454 U.S.
235, 257–261 (1981).[8]

															Finally, the Court relies upon the amicus
brief filed by the European Commission in support of its concern
about the risk of international “tension” that the
Government’s position supposedly creates. Ante, at
14. The European Commission filed its brief in support of
neither party, however, in line with the Solicitor General’s
view that a focus on consumer confusion provides a more balanced
approach that respects international relations while protecting
against trademark infringement domestically. No “sovereign
nation” filed its brief in support of petitioners’ (and
the Court’s) restricted view of step two of the
extraterritoriality analysis. Ibid. And there is no
“tension” in any event. What the European Commission
“warns this Court against,” ibid., is adopting
respondent’s sweeping view that all foreign uses that confuse
consumers abroad fall under the scope of the Act. See Brief for
European Commission on Behalf of the European Union as Amicus
Curiae 6 (explaining that “infringement” occurs in
the European Union when there is “a likelihood of consumer
confusion” there).

															*  *  *

															The Lanham Act covers petitioners’
activities abroad so long as respondent can show that those
activities are “likely to cause confusion, or to cause
mistake, or to deceive” in the United States and can prove
all elements necessary to establish liability under the Act. 15
U. S. C. §§1114(1)(a), 1125(a)(1)(A). Because
the courts below did not apply that test, I agree vacatur and
remand is required. The Court’s opinion, however, instructs
the Court on remand to apply a test that is not supported by either
the Lanham Act or this

															Court’s traditional two-step
extraterritoriality framework. I therefore concur only in the
judgment.[9]

Notes
1
 For simplicity, this
opinion refers to this likelihood of “confusion,”
“mistake,” or “decei[t]” as likelihood of
consumer confusion.
2
 See, e.g.,
Trader Joe’s Co. v. Hallatt, 835 F.3d 960, 969
(CA9 2016); McBee v. Delica Co., 
417 F.3d 107, 111 (CA1 2005); International Cafe, S. A.
L. v. Hard Rock Cafe Int’l (U. S. A.),
Inc., 
252 F.3d 1274, 1278 (CA11 2001); Aerogroup Int’l,
Inc. v. Marlboro Footworks, Ltd., 152 F.3d 948 (CA Fed.
1998); Nintendo of Am., Inc. v. Aeropower Co.,

34 F.3d 246, 250 (CA4 1994); American Rice, Inc. v.
Arkansas Rice Growers Cooperative Assn., 701 F.2d 408, 414,
n. 8 (CA5 1983); Vanity Fair Mills, Inc. v. T. Eaton
Co., 234 F.2d 633, 642–643 (CA2 1956).
3
 Even more confusing
still, “use in commerce” is all that matters under the
majority’s conduct-only analysis even though other conduct is
also listed as actionable in at least one of the provisions at
issue. 15 U. S. C. §1114(1)(a) (“the sale,
offering for sale, distribution, or advertising of any goods or
services”).
4
 Relying on RJR
Nabisco, Inc. v. European Community, 579 U.S. 325
(2016), the majority argues that the Court has already
“acknowledged that courts do not need to determine [a]
statute’s ‘focus’ when all conduct regarding the
violations took place outside the United States. ”
Ante, at 11 (some internal quotation marks omitted).
The portion of RJR Nabisco that the majority relies upon
merely described the Court’s holding in Kiobel v.
Royal Dutch Petroleum Co., 569 U.S.
108 (2013), a case that did not involve step two. In
Kiobel, the Court held that the statute did not rebut the
presumption against extraterritoriality at step one and declined to
address step two of the analysis (including determining the
statute’s focus) because the claims at issue did not
“touch and concern the territory of the United States”
other than through “mere corporate presence.”
Id., at 124–125. Kiobel does not offer any
guidance on what constitutes a domestic application of a statute at
step two.
5
 It is true that
Steele involved domestic conduct insofar as the defendant
exported watch parts from the United States into Mexico in
preparing to affix the infringing mark abroad. See 344 U. S.,
at 286. Yet the act of exporting those watch parts with no affixed
mark did not, without more, constitute an “illegal ac[t]
within the United States.” Id., at 282, 287. In
contrast, the defendant committed infringing acts abroad:
“[I]n Mexico City [he] stamped his watches with
‘Bulova’ and sold them as such.” Id., at
285. The Court also did not hold that domestic exportation of
unmarked product parts is necessary for the Lanham Act to cover
foreign sales.
6
 Here, there is no dispute
that the Lanham Act covers the products that petitioners sold
directly into the United States. See Brief for Petitioners 11, 41,
44–45. The dispute centers on products that petitioners sold
abroad to foreign buyers. For a portion of those products, the
foreign buyer designated the United States as the location where
the products were intended to be used. Like the watches in
Steele, those products thus “ended up in the United
States.” Pet. for Cert. 6.
7
 In today’s
increasingly global marketplace, where goods travel through
different countries, multinational brands have an online presence,
and trademarks are not protected uniformly around the world,
limiting the Lanham Act to purely domestic activities leaves
U. S. trademark owners without adequate protection. Cf.
McBee, 417 F. 3d, at 119 (noting that “global
piracy of American goods is a major problem for American
companies,” and absent some enforcement over foreign
activities, “there is a risk” that “violators
will either take advantage of international coordination problems
or hide in countries without efficacious . . . trademark
laws, thereby avoiding legal authority”). To be sure, the
Court today does not address whether a defendant operating abroad
who sells goods that reach the United States can be held liable
under the Lanham Act pursuant to contributory liability principles.
See Tr. of Oral Arg. 7–8, 20–21. Still,
today’s decision significantly waters down protections for
U. S. trademark owners. It is now up to Congress to correct
the Court’s limited reading of the Act.
8
 The Court incorrectly
suggests that the Government’s position will sweep in foreign
defendants with only a minimal connection to the United States.
Ante, at 12. In this case, for example, the District Court
concluded that personal jurisdiction was proper based on a forum
selection clause in the parties’ distribution agreement,
which named Okla- homa as the forum of choice, and because
petitioners purposefully directed their activities at the United
States. Hetronic Int’l, Inc. v. Hetronic Germany
GmbH, 2015 WL 5569035, *1–*3 (WD Okla., Sept. 22, 2015);
Hetronic Int’l, Inc. v. Hetronic Germany GmbH,
2015 WL 6835428, *2 (WD Okla., Nov. 6, 2015). The Tenth Circuit
affirmed that determination, Hetronic Int’l, Inc.
v. Hetronic Germany GmbH, 10 F. 4th 1016,
1027–1032 (2021), which petitioners do not challenge before
this Court.
9
 The jury returned a
verdict for respondent on all counts in the complaint, including
the breach of contract and tort claims under state law, and awarded
respondent more than $115 million in damages. See App. to Pet. for
Cert. 8a, 134a–137a. The Court’s decision today on the
claims under the Lanham Act does not affect the relief granted on
other claims, which petitioners do not challenge before this
Court.


