::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-1449
::decision_name::  Glacier Northwest, Inc. v. International Brotherhood of Teamsters
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Barrett
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–1449

															_________________

															GLACIER NORTHWEST, INC., dba CALPORTLAND,
PETITIONER v. INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS LOCAL
UNION NO. 174

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
washington

															[June 1, 2023]

															

															Justice Barrett delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															Glacier Northwest, a concrete company, depends
on its truck drivers to deliver concrete to customers in a timely
manner. But when relations between Glacier and its drivers soured,
the drivers went on strike. Their labor union allegedly designed
the strike with the intent to sabotage Glacier’s property.
Although Glacier managed to avoid damage to its delivery trucks by
deploying emergency maneuvers, the concrete that it had already
produced that day went to waste. Glacier sued the union in state
court for destroying its property. But the company did not get very
far: The state court dismissed Glacier’s tort claims on the
ground that they were preempted by the National Labor Relations
Act. We reverse.

															I

															A

															Enacted in 1935, the National Labor Relations
Act (NLRA) “encourag[es] the practice and procedure of
collective bargaining” between labor and management to
resolve “industrial disputes arising out of differences as to
wages, hours, or other working conditions.” 49Stat. 449, 29
U. S. C. §151. Section 7 of the NLRA protects
employees’ rights “to self-organization, to form, join,
or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through
representatives of their own choosing, and to engage in other
concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or
other mutual aid or protection.” §157. Section 8, in
turn, prohibits employers and unions from engaging in certain
“unfair labor practice[s],” such as interfering with
employees’ exercise of their §7 rights.
§§158(a), (b).

															To enforce the NLRA, Congress created the
National Labor Relations Board. The Board is authorized “to
prevent any person from engaging in any unfair labor
practice” that “affect[s] commerce.”
§160(a). Its authority kicks in when a person files a charge
with the agency alleging that an unfair labor practice is afoot. 29
CFR §101.2 (2021). Agency staff investigate the charge, and if
it “appears to have merit,” the agency issues a
complaint against the offending party. §§101.4, 101.8.
After taking evidence and conducting a hearing, the Board makes the
final call. 29 U. S. C. §§160(b), (c); see also
29 CFR §§101.10–101.12. If it determines that a
party has engaged in an unfair labor practice, the Board orders it
to “cease and desist” from that practice. 29
U. S. C. §160(c). The Board may seek enforcement of
its order in a federal court of appeals. §160(e). And a party
aggrieved by the order may ask the court to set it aside.
§160(f ).

															B

															Sometimes a party to a labor dispute goes
directly to a court—raising the specter that state law will
say one thing about the conduct underlying the dispute while the
NLRA says another. It is a bedrock rule, of course, that federal
law preempts state law when the two conflict. U. S. Const.,
Art. VI, cl. 2. Preemption under the NLRA is unusual,
though, because our precedent maintains that the NLRA preempts
state law even when the two only arguably conflict. San
Diego Building Trades Council v. Garmon, 359 U.S.
236, 245 (1959) (“When an activity is arguably subject to
§7 or §8 of the [NLRA], the States as well as the federal
courts must defer to the exclusive competence of the National Labor
Relations Board”). This doctrine—named Garmon
preemption after the case that originated it—thus goes beyond
the usual preemption rule. Under Garmon, States cannot
regulate conduct “that the NLRA protects, prohibits, or
arguably protects or prohibits.” Wisconsin Dept. of
Industry v. Gould Inc., 475 U.S.
282, 286 (1986).

															Though broad, this standard has teeth.
Longshoremen v. Davis, 476 U.S.
380, 394 (1986) (“The precondition for pre-emption, that
the conduct be ‘arguably’ protected or prohibited, is
not without substance”). It requires more than “a
conclusory assertion” that the NLRA arguably protects or
prohibits conduct. Ibid. “[A] party asserting
pre-emption must advance an interpretation of the [NLRA] that is
not plainly contrary to its language and that has not been
‘authoritatively rejected’ by the courts or the
Board.” Id., at 395. The party must then “put
forth enough evidence to enable the court to find that the Board
reasonably could uphold a claim based on such an
interpretation.” Ibid.

															If the court determines that the party has met
its burden to show that “there is an arguable case for
pre-emption,” it generally must grant the party’s
preemption defense and await the Board’s resolution of the
legal status of the relevant conduct. Id., at 397.[1] After that, “only if the Board
decides that the conduct is not protected or prohibited [by the
NLRA] may the court entertain the litigation.” Ibid.
“[W]hen properly invoked,” Garmon thus
“tells us not just what law applies (federal law, not state
law) but who applies it (the National Labor Relations Board, not
the state courts or federal district courts).”
Trollinger v. Tyson Foods, Inc., 
370 F.3d 602, 608 (CA6 2004).

															C

															We relay the facts as alleged in the
complaint. Glacier Northwest sells ready-mix concrete to customers
in Washington State. Each batch must be mixed to the
customer’s specifications. After Glacier combines the raw
ingredients—cement, sand, aggregate, admixture, and
water—in a hopper, it transfers the resulting concrete to one
of its trucks for prompt delivery.

															In this business, time is of the essence.
Concrete is highly perishable—it begins to harden immediately
once at rest. Ready-mix trucks can preserve concrete in a rotating
drum located on the back of the truck, but only for a limited time.
If concrete remains in the rotating drum for too long, it will
harden and cause significant damage to the truck. Worse still, the
hardening begins right away if the drum stops revolving.

															The International Brotherhood of Teamsters Local
Union No. 174 (Union) serves as the exclusive bargaining
representative for Glacier’s truck drivers. After the
collective-bargaining agreement between Glacier and the Union
expired in the summer of 2017, the parties negotiated in an attempt
to reach a new deal. Things did not go smoothly.

															Tensions came to a head on the morning of August
11. According to the allegations in Glacier’s complaint, a
Union agent signaled for a work stoppage when the Union knew that
Glacier was in the midst of mixing substantial amounts of concrete,
loading batches into ready-mix trucks, and making deliveries.
Although Glacier quickly instructed drivers to finish deliveries in
progress, the Union directed them to ignore Glacier’s orders.
At least 16 drivers who had already set out for deliveries returned
with fully loaded trucks. Seven parked their trucks, notified a
Glacier representative, and either asked for instructions or took
actions to protect their trucks. But at least nine drivers
abandoned their trucks without a word to anyone.

															Glacier faced an emergency. The company could
not leave the mixed concrete in the trucks because the
concrete’s inevitable hardening would cause significant
damage to the vehicles. At the same time, the company could not
dump the concrete out of the trucks at random because concrete
contains environmentally sensitive chemicals. To top it all off,
Glacier had limited time to solve this conundrum.

															A mad scramble ensued. Glacier needed to
determine which trucks had concrete in them, how close the concrete
in each truck was to hardening, and where to dump that concrete in
an environmentally safe manner. Over the course of five hours,
nonstriking employees built special bunkers and managed to offload
the concrete. When all was said and done, Glacier’s emergency
maneuvers prevented damage to its trucks. But the concrete that it
had already mixed that day hardened in the bunkers and became
useless.

															Glacier sued the Union for damages in Washington
state court. Relying on the allegations detailed above, Glacier
claimed that the Union intentionally destroyed the company’s
concrete and that this conduct amounted to common-law conversion
and trespass to chattels.

															The Union moved to dismiss Glacier’s tort
claims on the ground that the NLRA preempted them. In the
Union’s view, the NLRA at least arguably protected the
drivers’ conduct, so the State was powerless to hold the
Union accountable for any of the strike’s consequences.

															The trial court agreed with the Union. After the
appellate court reversed, the Washington Supreme Court reinstated
the trial court’s decision. In its view, “the NLRA
preempts Glacier’s tort claims related to the loss of its
concrete product because that loss was incidental to a strike
arguably protected by federal law.” 198 Wash. 2d 768, 774,
500 P.3d 119, 123 (2021).

															We granted certiorari to resolve whether the
NLRA preempts Glacier’s tort claims alleging that the Union
intentionally destroyed its property during a labor dispute. 598
U. S. ___ (2022).

															II

															As the party asserting preemption, the Union
bears the burden of (1) advancing “an interpretation of the
[NLRA] that is not plainly contrary to its language and that has
not been ‘authoritatively rejected’ by the courts or
the Board,” and then (2) putting forth “enough evidence
to enable the court to find that” the NLRA arguably protects
the drivers’ conduct. Davis, 476 U. S., at 395.
The Union passes the first test but fails the second.

															All agree that the NLRA protects the right to
strike but that this right is not absolute. Brief for Petitioner
18; Brief for Respondent 21, 46, n. 14. The Board has long
taken the position—which both the Union and Glacier
accept—that the NLRA does not shield strikers who fail to
take “reasonable precautions” to protect their
employer’s property from foreseeable, aggravated, and
imminent danger due to the sudden cessation of work. Bethany
Medical Center, 328 N. L. R. B. 1094 (1999)
(“concerted activity” is “indefensible where
employees fail to take reasonable precautions to protect the
employer’s plant, equipment, or products from foreseeable
imminent danger due to sudden cessation of work”); see also
Brief for Petitioner 14, 30–31; Brief for Respondent
28–29; Reply Brief 6–7; Tr. of Oral Arg. 68, 86. Given
this undisputed limitation on the right to strike, we proceed to
consider whether the Union has demonstrated that the statute
arguably protects the drivers’ conduct. Davis, 476
U. S., at 395. We conclude that it has not.[2]

															The drivers engaged in a sudden cessation of
work that put Glacier’s property in foreseeable and imminent
danger. The Union knew that concrete is highly perishable and that
it can last for only a limited time in a delivery truck’s
rotating drum. It also knew that concrete left to harden in a
truck’s drum causes significant damage to the truck. The
Union nevertheless coordinated with truck drivers to initiate the
strike when Glacier was in the midst of batching large quantities
of concrete and delivering it to customers. Predictably, the
company’s concrete was destroyed as a result. And though
Glacier’s swift action saved its trucks in the end, the risk
of harm to its equipment was both foreseeable and serious. See
NLRB v. Special Touch Home Care Services, Inc., 708
F.3d 447, 460 (CA2 2013) (“The appropriate inquiry is focused
on the risk of harm, not its realization”).

															The Union failed to “take reasonable
precautions to protect” against this foreseeable and imminent
danger. Bethany Medical Center, 328
N. L. R. B., at 1094. It could have initiated the
strike before Glacier’s trucks were full of wet
concrete—say, by instructing drivers to refuse to load their
trucks in the first place. Once the strike was underway, nine of
the Union’s drivers abandoned their fully loaded trucks
without telling anyone—which left the trucks on a path to
destruction unless Glacier saw them in time to unload the concrete.
Yet the Union did not take the simple step of alerting Glacier that
these trucks had been returned. Nor, after the trucks were in the
yard, did the Union direct its drivers to follow Glacier’s
instructions to facilitate a safe transfer of equipment. To be
clear, the “reasonable precautions” test does not
mandate any one action in particular. But the Union’s failure
to take even minimal precautions illustrates its failure to fulfill
its duty.

															Indeed, far from taking reasonable precautions
to mitigate foreseeable danger to Glacier’s property, the
Union executed the strike in a manner designed to compromise the
safety of Glacier’s trucks and destroy its concrete. Such
conduct is not “arguably protected” by the NLRA; on the
contrary, it goes well beyond the NLRA’s protections. See
NLRB v. Marshall Car Wheel & Foundry Co., 218
F.2d 409, 411, 413 (CA5 1955) (strike unprotected when employees
abandoned their posts without warning “when molten iron in
the plant cupola was ready to be poured off,” even though
“a lack of sufficient help to carry out the critical pouring
operation might well have resulted in substantial property
damage”).

															Thus, accepting the complaint’s
allegations as true, the Union did not take reasonable precautions
to protect Glacier’s property from imminent danger resulting
from the drivers’ sudden cessation of work. The state court
thus erred in dismissing Glacier’s tort claims as preempted
on the pleadings.

															III

															The Union resists this conclusion. First, it
emphasizes that the NLRA’s protection of the right to strike
should “ ‘be given a generous
interpretation.’ ” Brief for Respondent 21
(quoting NLRB v. Erie Resistor Corp., 373 U.S.
221, 234–235 (1963)). A strike, it points out, consists
of a “concerted stoppage of work.” §142(2). So,
the argument goes, by engaging in a concerted stoppage of work to
support their economic demands, the drivers engaged in conduct
arguably protected by §7 of the NLRA.

															This argument oversimplifies the NLRA. As we
explained, the right to strike is limited by the requirement that
workers “take reasonable precautions to protect the
employer’s plant, equipment, or products from foreseeable
imminent danger due to sudden cessation of work.” Bethany
Medical Center, 328 N. L. R. B., at 1094. So the
mere fact that the drivers engaged in a concerted stoppage of work
to support their economic demands does not end the analysis. We
must also ask whether the strike exceeded the limits of the
statute.

															Second, the Union argues that “workers do
not forfeit the Act’s protections simply by commencing a work
stoppage at a time when the loss of perishable products is
foreseeable.” Brief for Respondent 22. It points out that the
Board has found strikers’ conduct protected even when their
decision not to work created a risk that perishable goods would
spoil. See, e.g., Lumbee Farms Coop., 285
N. L. R. B. 497 (1987) (raw poultry processing
workers), enf ’d, 850 F.2d 689 (CA4 1988); Central
Oklahoma Milk Producers Assoc., 125 N. L. R. B.
419 (1959) (milk-truck drivers), enf ’d, 285 F.2d 495
(CA10 1960); Leprino Cheese Co., 170
N. L. R. B. 601 (1968) (cheese factory employees),
enf ’d, 424 F.2d 184 (CA10 1970). If the mere risk of
spoilage is enough to render a strike illegal, the Union insists,
then workers who deal with perishable goods will have no meaningful
right to strike.

															The Union is swinging at a straw man. It casts
this case as one involving nothing more than a foreseeable risk
that the employer’s perishable products would spoil. But
given the lifespan of wet concrete, Glacier could not batch it
until a truck was ready to take it. So by reporting for duty and
pretending as if they would deliver the concrete, the drivers
prompted the creation of the perishable product. Then, they
waited to walk off the job until the concrete was mixed and poured
in the trucks. In so doing, they not only destroyed the concrete
but also put Glacier’s trucks in harm’s way. This case
therefore involves much more than “a work stoppage at a time
when the loss of perishable products is foreseeable.” Brief
for Respondent 22.

															Third, the Union maintains that the timing of
the strike and Glacier’s lack of notice cannot render the
drivers’ conduct unprotected. Id., at 26–28. It
argues that workers are not required to time their strikes to
minimize economic harm to their employer, see Lumbee Farms,
285 N. L. R. B., at 506, and that the NLRA does not
impose a legal requirement that workers give specific notice of a
strike’s timing, see Columbia Portland Cement Co. v.
NLRB, 915 F.2d 253, 257 (CA6 1990).

															We agree that the Union’s decision to
initiate the strike during the workday and failure to give Glacier
specific notice do not themselves render its conduct unprotected.
Still, they are relevant considerations in evaluating whether
strikers took reasonable precautions, whether harm to property was
imminent, and whether that danger was foreseeable. See
International Protective Services, Inc., 339
N. L. R. B. 701, 702–703 (2003) (attempt
“ ‘to capitalize on the element of
surprise’ ” stemming from a lack of notice weighed
in favor of concluding that a union failed to take reasonable
precautions). In this instance, the Union’s choice to call a
strike after its drivers had loaded a large amount of wet
concrete into Glacier’s delivery trucks strongly suggests
that it failed to take reasonable precautions to avoid foreseeable,
aggravated, and imminent harm to Glacier’s property.

															Finally, the Union points out that the drivers
returned the trucks to Glacier’s facility. And it maintains
that all of the drivers left the drums of their trucks rotating,
which delayed the concrete’s hardening process. In the
Union’s view, this establishes that the drivers took
reasonable precautions to protect the trucks. Brief for Respondent
28–30.

															We see it differently. That the drivers returned
the trucks to Glacier’s facility does not do much for the
Union—refraining from stealing an employer’s vehicles
does not demonstrate that one took reasonable precautions to
protect them. And Glacier’s allegations do not support the
Union’s assertion that all of the drivers left the drums
rotating. The Union relies on a vague remark by an unspecified
Union agent to another unspecified person to leave a truck running.
See id., at 9, 30; Brief for Petitioner 8; App. 34. This
snippet does not show that all of the drivers left their trucks
running, and even if it did, that would not necessarily mean that
the delivery trucks’ drums continued rotating. In any event,
Glacier alleged that if concrete remains in a ready-mix truck for
too long, it will harden and cause significant damage to the truck.
The rotating drum forestalls that hardening for a time, but not
indefinitely. And the Union concedes that the NLRA does not
arguably protect its actions if they posed a material risk of harm
to the trucks. Tr. of Oral Arg. 78.[3]

															*  *  *

															Glacier alleges that the drivers’
conduct created an emergency in which it had to devise a way to
offload concrete “in a timely manner to avoid costly damage
to [its] mixer trucks.” App. 72. The Union’s actions
not only resulted in the destruction of all the concrete Glacier
had prepared that day; they also posed a risk of foreseeable,
aggravated, and imminent harm to Glacier’s trucks. Because
the Union took affirmative steps to endanger Glacier’s
property rather than reasonable precautions to mitigate that risk,
the NLRA does not arguably protect its conduct. We reverse the
judgment of the Washington Supreme Court and remand the case for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 We have recognized
exceptions to this rule. One allows a court to resolve a claim if
the party raising it lacks a “reasonable opportunity”
to secure a Board decision on the legal status of the conduct at
issue. Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Carpenters,
436 U.S.
180, 201 (1978); see also Davis, 476 U. S., at 393,
n. 10. Another applies if the conduct in question is “a
merely peripheral concern” of the NLRA. San Diego Building
Trades Council v. Garmon, 359 U.S.
236, 243 (1959). A third covers situations“where the
regulated conduct touche[s] interests so deeply rooted in local
feeling and responsibility that, in the absence of compelling
congressional direction,” a court cannot conclude that
Congress “deprived the States of the power to act.”
Id., at 244. Because we conclude that the NLRA does not
arguably protect the Union’s conduct, we need not address
these exceptions.
2
 The Union moved to
dismiss Glacier’s claims for failure to state a claim and for
lack of subject matter jurisdiction. Like the Washington Supreme
Court, we treat both motions together and accept the allegations in
the complaint as true at the motion-to-dismiss stage. 198 Wash. 2d
768, 782–783, 500 P.3d 119, 127 (2021); see also
Kinney v. Cook, 159 Wash. 2d 837, 842, 154 P.3d 206,
209 (2007). Pursuant to Washington law, we also may consider
additional factual allegations made by Glacier that support its
complaint. See Bravo v. Dolsen Companies, 
125 Wash. 2d 745, 750, 
888 P.2d 147, 150 (1995).
3
 After the Washington
Supreme Court affirmed the dismissal of Glacier’s tort
claims, the Board’s general counsel issued a complaint
alleging that Glacier engaged in unfair labor practices in relation
to its labor dispute with the drivers, including by disciplining
some of those involved in the strike. The lower courts have not
addressed the significance, if any, of the Board’s complaint
with respect to Garmon preemption. We will not do so in the
first instance. Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U.S.
709, 718, n. 7 (2005) (“[W]e are a court of review,
not of first view”). The Board’s general counsel agrees
that this issue is not properly before us. See Brief for United
States as Amicus Curiae 28.


