::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-056
::decision_cite:: 21-248
::decision_name::  Berger v. North Carolina State Conference of the NAACP
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–248

															_________________

															PHILIP E. BERGER, et al., PETITIONERS v. NORTH CAROLINA STATE CONFERENCE OF THE NAACP, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															[June 23, 2022]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, dissenting.

															When an individual or entity moves to intervene in a pending lawsuit under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 24(a)(2), a federal court is not authorized to grant the motion if an existing party to the case adequately represents the movant’s interests.  Today, however, the Court holds that two leaders of the North Carolina General Assembly are entitled to intervene as a matter of right to represent the State’s interest in defending the constitutionality of North Carolina law, even though that interest is already being ably pursued on the State’s behalf by an existing state party to the litigation.  The Court’s decision is wrong for two reasons.  First, the Court goes astray by creating a presumption that a State is inadequately represented in federal court unless whomever state law designates as a State’s representative is allowed to intervene, even where the interests that the intervenors seek to represent are identical to those of an existing party.  That presumption of inadequacy improperly permits state law, as opposed to federal law, to determine whether an existing party adequately represents a particular interest.  Second, the Court errs by implying that the attorney general’s defense of the constitutionality of the voting law at issue here fell below a minimal standard of adequacy.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															The underlying dispute in this case concerns the constitutionality of North Carolina’s voter-identification law, Senate Bill 824 (S. B. 824), enacted in 2018.  The North Carolina State Conference of the NAACP (NAACP respondents) sued members of the North Carolina State Board of Elections (state respondents) and the Governor in Federal District Court, alleging that the law violated the Fourteenth and
 
Fifteenth Amendments and §2 of the Voting Rights Act by, among other things, discriminating against Black and Latino voters.  The state attorney general appeared as counsel to represent the Governor and state respondents.  See N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §114–2 (2021) (providing that the attorney general has a “duty” “to appear for the State” in any matter “in which the State may be a party or interested” and to “represent all State departments, agencies, institutions, commissions, bureaus or other organized activities of the State”).  NAACP respondents also filed a parallel challenge to S. B. 824 in state court.  See Holmes v. Moore, No. 18–CV–15292 (Super. Ct. Wake Cty., N. C.).

															Shortly after the federal suit was filed, Philip E. Berger, the president pro tempore of the North Carolina Senate, and Timothy K. Moore, the speaker of the North Carolina House of Representatives (petitioners here), filed a motion to intervene “on behalf of the General Assembly.”  App. 55.  They sought to intervene as of right under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 24(a)(2), claiming a “significantly protectable interest in the validity of S.B. 824.”  App. 61.  Petitioners cited, among other things, a state statute conferring upon them standing to intervene on behalf of the General Assembly in cases challenging state law.  Id., at 61–62 (citing N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §1–72.2).  In the alternative, petitioners sought permissive intervention under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 24(b).

															The District Court denied the motion without prejudice, explaining that petitioners lacked “a significantly protectable interest in . . . defending the constitutionality of S.B. 824 sufficient to warrant a right to intervene under Rule 24(a)(2)” because the Governor and state respondents remained in the suit and were adequately defending the challenged law.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 168.  The court also reasoned that allowing petitioners to intervene would “ ‘hinder, rather than enhance, judicial economy’ ” and would “ ‘unnecessarily complicate and delay’ the various stages of this case,” including discovery, dispositive motions, and trial.  Id., at 180.  The court granted petitioners’ motion to participate in the suit as amici, however, and assured petitioners that they could renew their motion to intervene if the attorney general, as counsel for the existing state parties, “declined to defend the lawsuit.”  Id., at 157.[1]  Petitioners did not appeal.  Shortly thereafter, the District Court granted the Governor’s motion to dismiss him from the suit.  The attorney general continued representing state respondents in the litigation.

															Six weeks after the District Court denied their original intervention motion, petitioners filed a renewed motion, again seeking both to intervene as a matter of right and permissively.  Petitioners primarily reiterated arguments made in their first motion for intervention, adding that this Court’s decision in Virginia House of Delegates v. Bethune-Hill, 587 U. S. ___ (2019), “clarified” the interests they sought to represent.  App. 159.  They also asserted that the attorney general’s conduct in the parallel state-court litigation, in which petitioners were codefendants, supported petitioners’ argument for intervention.  Specifically, petitioners argued that the attorney general moved to dismiss five of six claims in the state-court litigation, but not the sixth; failed to defend against NAACP respondents’ motion for a preliminary injunction; and “did not seriously engage” in discovery.  Id., at 164.

															The District Court again denied the motion, explaining that it was “abundantly clear that [state respondents are] actively and adequately defending this lawsuit.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 189.  The court recounted that state respondents had “consistently ‘denied all substantive allegations of unconstitutionality’ in this case” and had filed an “expansive” brief opposing NAACP respondents’ motion for a preliminary injunction on the merits.  Ibid.  The court also rejected petitioners’ argument that the attorney general’s conduct in the pending state-court litigation was inadequate.  The court explained that the attorney general’s decision not to move to dismiss the sixth state-court claim in that separate litigation “fell well within the range of reasonable litigation strategies”; that the attorney general secured reversal of the state-court preliminary injunction on appeal; and that the attorney general “ ‘participated in extensive fact discovery’ ” in the state-court litigation.  Id., at 191, 192.  The court therefore found “no sound basis on which to speculate . . . that [state respondents] and [the] Attorney General w[ould] abandon their duty to defend S.B. 824 in this case,” given that, by all appearances, they had fully executed that duty in both the federal- and state-court litigation thus far.  Id., at 193.

															The District Court also rejected petitioners’ request for permissive intervention.  In the court’s view, petitioners’ contentions in the federal litigation, including their repeated skepticism of state respondents’ ability to defend state law vigorously, demonstrated that intervention “would only distract from the pressing issues in this case.”  Id., at 193–194.

															Over a dissent by Judge Harris, the Court of Appeals vacated the District Court’s order and remanded for reconsideration of petitioners’ request to intervene.  The Court of Appeals voted to take the case en banc, however, and affirmed the District Court’s denial of intervention.

															The en banc court began by stressing that its jurisdiction was limited to reviewing the order from which petitioners had chosen to appeal.  Because petitioners had not appealed the District Court’s denial of their first intervention motion seeking to “represen[t] the General Assembly’s ‘institutional interest’ in enforcement of S.B. 824,” the Court of Appeals determined it could not review petitioners’ claim that they were representing that particular institutional interest.  999 F.3d 915, 926 (CA4 2021).  The en banc court instead addressed petitioners’ argument that they were mandatorily entitled to represent the interest of the State in defending the constitutionality of S. B. 824.

															In its merits analysis, the en banc court observed that Rule 24(a)(2) contains several requirements, including that a proposed intervenor demonstrate both “ ‘an interest in the subject matter of the action’ ” and “ ‘that the [proposed intervenor’s] interest is not adequately represented by existing parties to the litigation.’ ”  Id., at 927 (quoting Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 24(a)(2)).  The court noted that petitioners had not asked the District Court and the Court of Appeals to consider whether state law was relevant to Rule 24(a)(2)’s adequacy requirement, as opposed to its interest requirement.  See 999 F. 3d, at 930, n. 3.  The court concluded that N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §1–72.2, the state statute authorizing petitioners to intervene in cases challenging state law, bore on only the interest requirement.  The court explained that “[a] state’s policy judgment about the value of legislative intervention may bestow a protectable interest in certain court cases, but it does not override [a federal court’s] normal standards for evaluating the adequacy of existing representation in those cases.”  999 F. 3d, at 929, n. 3 (emphasis added).

															The court assumed (as to the former requirement) that petitioners had established a protectable interest in the subject matter of the litigation, but held (as to the latter requirement) that this “purported interest in defending S.B. 824 on behalf of the State of North Carolina” was “adequately represented by existing parties to the litigation.”  Id., at 927.  Accordingly, the court concluded that petitioners had “no right to intervene in federal court under Rule 24(a)(2).”  Ibid.

															This Court granted certiorari.  595 U. S. ___ (2021).

															II

															At the heart of this case is Rule 24(a)(2), which governs intervention as of right.  As relevant here, Rule 24(a)(2) provides that a court “must permit anyone to intervene” who, (1) “[o]n timely motion,” (2) “claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action, and is so situated that disposing of the action may as a practical matter impair or impede the movant’s ability to protect its interest,” (3) “unless existing parties adequately represent that interest.”  This case requires the Court to address how state laws affect mandatory intervention under Rule 24(a)(2).

															I begin with points of agreement: The Court and I agree that “States may organize themselves in a variety of ways.”  Ante, at 9; see Bethune-Hill, 587 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 4–5) (contrasting Virginia’s choice to vest “[a]uthority and responsibility for representing the State’s interests in civil litigation . . . exclusively with the State’s Attorney General” with other States’ decisions to authorize other agents “to litigate on the State’s behalf ”).  We agree that a State is free to designate who will represent it in federal court.  See Hollingsworth v. Perry,

570 U.S. 693, 710 (2013) (observing that although “[t]hat agent is typically the State’s attorney general,” States may make a different choice); see also Planned Parenthood of Wis., Inc. v. Kaul, 942 F.3d 793, 802 (CA7 2019) (“[W]e can see no reason why a federal court would bat an eye if a state required its attorney general to withdraw from his representation and allow another entity, including a legislature, to take over a case”).  We also agree that state law can create a protectable interest in the resolution of a federal lawsuit.  See Maine v. Taylor,

477 U.S. 131, 137 (1986) (“[A] State clearly has a legitimate interest in the continued enforceability of its own statutes”).[2]

															I part ways with the Court because it is clear that Rule 24(a)(2) does not give a State the right to have multiple parties represent the same interest.  Rather, Rule 24(a)(2) explicitly authorizes additional parties to intervene in pending litigation only if their interests are not adequately represented by an existing party.

															The Court instead concludes that the undisputed principles discussed above establish a presumption that a State’s interests are not adequately represented “if [any of] its duly authorized representatives are excluded from participating in federal litigation challenging state law.”  Ante, at 9 (stating that “federal courts should rarely question that a State’s interests will be practically impaired or impeded” in these circumstances).  In the Court’s view, because North Carolina law provides that “[t]he Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate” “shall jointly have standing to intervene on behalf of the General Assembly as a party in any judicial proceeding challenging a North Carolina statute or provision of the North Carolina Constitution,” N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §1–72.2(b), “a federal court should find the interest requirement of Rule 24(a)(2) satisfied,” ante, at 11.  The Court so holds despite the fact that state respondents already represent the State’s interests in this litigation in a manner that the District Court found adequate, and where the attorney general’s defense of the constitutionality of the voter-identification law has thus far proved successful.

															The Court’s presumption of inadequacy is novel.  Neither petitioners nor the Court identify a single precedent in which a state actor was entitled to intervene as of right to defend a statute that another state actor already was defending.  Rather, the issue in all cases the Court cites was whether any state official would be allowed to defend a State’s interest when an official charged with doing so declined to do so.  Cf. Cameron v. EMW Women’s Surgical Center, P. S. C., 595 U. S. ___, ___, n. 5 (2022) (slip op., at 10, n. 5) (allowing Kentucky attorney general to intervene in federal appellate proceeding “to defend Kentucky’s interests” once “no other official [was] willing to do so”); Karcher v. May,

484 U.S. 72, 75, 81–82 (1987) (holding that two state legislators could intervene to defend the constitutionality of state law after the attorney general declined to do so); Bethune-Hill, 587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 4) (rejecting argument that the Virginia House of Delegates and its Speaker, who intervened specifically to represent their “own” interests rather than those of the State as a whole, could displace the attorney general as representative of the State); see also Hollingsworth, 570 U. S., at 707, 713 (holding that proponents of a ballot initiative who “ha[d] no role . . . in the enforcement of ” the initiative and were not “agents of the State” lacked standing to defend it on appeal).

															None of these precedents establish that state law can require a federal court to allow additional state actors to intervene when another state actor is already ably and fully representing the State’s interests in the litigation.  To the contrary, it is well settled that the question whether an interest is being “adequately represented” is one of federal law, not state law.  See 7C C. Wright, A. Miller, & M. Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure §1905 (3d ed. Supp. 2022) (Wright, Miller, & Kane) (citing cases and observing that “[i]t is wholly clear that the right to intervene in a civil action pending in a United States District Court is governed by Rule 24 and not by state law”).  Petitioners themselves, until they arrived at this Court, never adopted the view that state law can supplant a federal court’s responsibility to decide adequacy of representation in an individual case.

															The Court’s conclusion that state law can dictate what counts as “adequate” representation also suffers from practical infirmities.  If state law can require a federal court to allow a second state actor to intervene to represent a different “perspective,” ante, at 16, what is to stop a State from designating 3, 4, or 10 or more officials as necessary parties to suits challenging state law?  The Court acknowledges this concern but offers no limiting principle grounded in Rule 24(a)(2).  Ante, at 17.  That is because it cannot: Under the Court’s logic, a federal court would have no choice but to allow all 10 or more state officials to intervene.

															This result contravenes Rule 24(a)(2) and the practical realities of litigation that it reflects.  Federal law gives district courts responsibility to assess, in the first instance, the adequacy of a party’s representation because those courts are most familiar with that representation and are responsible for managing their dockets and streamlining proceedings.  Rule 24(a)(2) thus does not require district courts to allow intervention where interests are adequately represented because such intervention would be duplicative and inefficient.  This Rule accounts for the fact that mandatory intervention imposes costs on the original parties, on the court, and on all others whose interests depend on timely resolution of a given case.  Forcing federal courts “to accommodate [a] cacophony of parties,” 999 F. 3d, at 934, as the Court’s logic today requires, will result in an “intractable procedural mess,” leaving district courts with “no basis for divining the true position of the [State] on issues like the meaning of state law, or even for purposes of doctrines like judicial estoppel.”  Kaul, 942 F. 3d, at 801–802; see New Jersey v. New York,

345 U.S. 369, 373 (1953) (per curiam) (declining to be drawn into “intramural dispute” within a State).

															It is difficult to overstate the burden the Court’s holding will foist on district courts.  Each intervenor will be entitled to file its own brief concerning every motion and will be entitled to its own discovery.  Even when state agents’ positions align, this multitude of parties will clog federal courts and delay the administration of justice.[3]  When state agents’ positions diverge, courts will also be put in the unenviable position of determining “which of [a State’s] representatives . . . better represents it.”  999 F. 3d, at 934.  Out of respect for federalism, if nothing else, we should not interpret state law to hijack federal courts’ ability to manage litigation involving States.  See Virginia Office for Protection and Advocacy v. Stewart,

563 U.S. 247, 272 (2011) (Roberts, C. J., dissenting) (noting the “indignity” suffered by a State when “a federal judge . . . decide[s] an internal state dispute”).

															III

															Aided by its new presumption of inadequacy, the Court concludes that state respondents inadequately represented petitioners’ stated interests.  The Court states that in so holding, it “[c]ast[s] aspersions on no one.”  Ante, at 16.  In the Court’s view, however, petitioners (unlike state respondents and their counsel, the attorney general) “are not burdened by misgivings about the law’s wisdom,” and therefore should be allowed to intervene to “give voice to a different perspective.”  Ibid.  The implication of the Court’s holding is clear: The attorney general’s performance fell short of representing adequately the State’s interests in the constitutionality of its law, and for that reason, petitioners should be allowed to intervene.

															This is simply wrong.  As a preliminary matter, petitioners and state respondents share the same interest: ensuring the validity and enforcement of S. B. 824.  Cf. Trbovich v. Mine Workers,

404 U.S. 528, 538–539 (1972) (allowing intervention as of right where an intervenor’s interests as an individual union member were “not identical” to those of the existing party in the suit, the Secretary of Labor, who sought to represent the public interest).  Here, state respondents explain that they “represen[t] . . . the State’s interest in defending its laws.”  Brief for State Respondents 18.  Their counsel, the attorney general, is required to do the same under North Carolina law.  See N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §114–2.  Identically, petitioners represent that they seek to defend “the State’s vital interest in defending the constitutionality of North Carolina’s election laws.”  Brief for Petitioners 15–16.  Indeed, petitioners cannot now seek to represent any unique interest of the General Assembly in the litigation because they abandoned that argument by failing to appeal the District Court’s original order denying intervention on that basis.  By their own admission, then, petitioners seek only to represent the State’s interest in defending state law, an interest that state respondents already represent.

															The Court insists that petitioners’ “perspective” nevertheless differs from that of state respondents, by focusing on “defending the law vigorously on the merits without an eye to crosscutting administrative concerns” such as obtaining guidance for the administration of upcoming elections.  Ante, at 16; see Brief for Petitioners 48 (“The differing perspectives of Petitioners and State Board Respondents are a product of their different relationships to the State”).  The Court’s position rests in part on the assumption that leaders of the General Assembly have a unique interest that should be represented in the litigation.  As noted, however, the case’s procedural posture forecloses that argument because petitioners forfeited it.[4]

															In any event, the difference in perspective the Court perceives boils down only to a disagreement over trial strategy.  As the Court rightly concedes, the State has a strong interest in the orderly administration of its elections.  See ante, at 16 (acknowledging state respondents’ interest in “stability and certainty” in an upcoming election).  That is not, however, the only state interest that state respondents, represented by the attorney general, sought to defend.  The attorney general has insisted all along that the interests he seeks to represent, and indeed is required to represent under state law, include defending the constitutionality of North Carolina laws like the voter-identification law at issue here.  See N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §114–2.  These state interests are not mutually exclusive.  The attorney general’s choice to emphasize the State’s interest in election administration at a particular stage of the litigation, while simultaneously maintaining a firm position on the constitutionality of S. B. 824, was merely a choice about litigation strategy.  It is a choice with which petitioners might disagree, but it does not render state respondents’ representation inadequate.  See 7C Wright, Miller, & Kane §1909 (“A mere difference of opinion concerning the tactics with which the litigation should be handled does not make inadequate the representation of those whose interests are identical with that of an existing party”); accord, Kaul, 942 F. 3d, at 810–811 (Sykes, J., concurring); Daggett v. Commission on Governmental Ethics and Election Practices, 172 F.3d 104, 112 (CA1 1999).

															Properly understood, the attorney general’s representation of state respondents satisfies any standard of adequacy.  As the District Court explained, the attorney general “actively and adequately defend[ed] this lawsuit.”  App. to Pet. for Cert. 189.  He “consistently denied all substantive allegations of unconstitutionality in this case.”  Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted).  And he moved to dismiss the suit on federalism grounds, filed an “expansive brief ” opposing NAACP respondents’ motion for a preliminary injunction on the merits, and has moved for summary judgment on all claims.  Ibid.

															The Court faults the attorney general for emphasizing “administrative concerns” in his brief on the merits and for not offering expert reports to support his opposition to a preliminary injunction.  See ante, at 16.  Petitioners also take issue with the attorney general’s decision not to seek a stay of the District Court’s preliminary injunction pending appeal.  Brief for Petitioners 12, 50.  But these are precisely the sort of strategic decisions that government attorneys make every day; in fact, petitioners themselves declined to seek a stay in the parallel litigation in state court.  The Court’s retrospective criticism of the attorney general’s litigation strategy is insufficient to establish that state respondents inadequately represented the State’s interests.  See Saldano v. Roach, 363 F.3d 545, 555 (CA5 2004) (“Simply because the [intervenor] would have made a different decision does not mean that the Attorney General is inadequately representing the State’s interest—and hence, the [intervenor’s] claimed interest—especially since state law specifically gives the Attorney General the discretion to make these kinds of decisions”).

															If any doubt remains, the results delivered by the attorney general’s representation should eliminate it.  The attorney general sought and secured on appeal a reversal of the District Court’s preliminary injunction.  He also won the Governor’s dismissal from the suit.  It is hardly persuasive to flyspeck the attorney general’s litigation approach when that very approach has vindicated the State’s interests.

															Finally, the Court alludes to petitioners’ argument that state respondents’ representation of petitioners’ interests was inadequate because the Governor (who vetoed S. B. 824 and personally opposed the law) exercised appointment authority over state respondents.  Ante, at 16.  The Court is right not to fully embrace this argument, which implies that the attorney general and the career professionals in his office are incapable of executing their statutory duty to represent North Carolina in litigation and defend its interests.  See N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §114–2.  Petitioners’ “startling accusation” flies in the face of the presumption that public officials can be trusted to exercise their official duties and overlooks the attorney general’s vigorous advocacy to date.  999 F. 3d, at 937; see United States v. Chemical Foundation, Inc.,

272 U.S. 1, 15 (1926) (courts should “presume that [public officials] have properly discharged their official duties”).  As the Court of Appeals explained, that the Governor or the attorney general “may have expressed policy views at odds with S.B. 824 in the past is no ground for a federal court to infer that [the attorney general] would abdicate his official duty to the State by subterfuge, mounting a sham defense of the statute.”  999 F. 3d, at 937.  To suggest otherwise does a grave “disservice to the dignified work of government lawyers who each day put aside their own policy and political preferences to advocate dutifully on behalf of their governments and the general public.”  Ibid.

															In short, the Court’s conclusion that state respondents inadequately represented petitioners’ interests is a fiction that the record does not support.  In addition, the Court’s armchair hypothesizing improperly displaces the District Court’s firsthand experience in managing this litigation.

															*  *  *

															States are entitled to structure themselves as they wish and to decide who should represent their interests in federal litigation.  State law may not, however, override the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure by requiring federal courts to allow intervention by multiple state representatives who all seek to represent the same state interest that an existing state party is already capably defending.  Because the Court concludes otherwise, I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 Petitioners submitted an amicus brief supporting state respondents’ opposition to NAACP respondents’ motion for a preliminary injunction. 

2
 We also agree that there is no need to decide whether a presumption of adequate representation is sometimes appropriate, ante, at 15, or what standard of review governs our analysis, ante, at 18, n.  I disagree, however, with the Court’s conclusion that the courts below erred under any standard and that reversal is required. 

3
 This case is the perfect example.  The District Court scheduled trial for January 2021, but postponed it to January 2022 pending resolution of petitioners’ appeal of their second motion for intervention.  See 999 F. 3d, at 923.  After certiorari was granted, the District Court stayed trial pending this Court’s disposition of the case.  Now that the District Court will be obligated to allow petitioners to intervene, trial inevitably will be delayed much further. 

4
 The argument that petitioners may intervene to represent a different “perspective” might have been a better fit for permissive intervention under Rule 24(b), rather than intervention as a matter of right under Rule 24(a)(2).  Petitioners, however, did not ask this Court to review the District Court’s conclusion that they were not entitled to permissive intervention. 


