::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-056
::decision_cite:: 21-248
::decision_name::  Berger v. North Carolina State Conference of the NAACP
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–248

															_________________

															PHILIP E. BERGER, et al., PETITIONERS v. NORTH CAROLINA STATE CONFERENCE OF THE NAACP, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															[June 23, 2022]

															

															Justice Gorsuch delivered the opinion of the Court.

															At the heart of this lawsuit lies a challenge to the constitutionality of a North Carolina election law.  But the merits of that dispute are not before us, only an antecedent question of civil procedure:  Are two leaders of North Carolina’s state legislature entitled to participate in the case under the terms of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 24(a)(2)?

															I

															A

															Within wide constitutional bounds, States are free to structure themselves as they wish.  Often, they choose to conduct their affairs through a variety of branches, agencies, and elected and appointed officials.  These constituent pieces sometimes work together to achieve shared goals; other times they reach very different judgments about important policy questions and act accordingly.  This diffusion of governmental powers within and across institutions may be an everyday feature of American life.  But it can also pose its difficulties when a State’s laws or policies are challenged in federal court.

															Suppose someone seeks to attack a state law on the ground that it is inconsistent with the Federal Constitution.  Generally, States themselves are immune from suit in federal court.  See Sossamon v. Texas,

563 U.S. 277, 284 (2011).  So usually a plaintiff will sue the individual state officials most responsible for enforcing the law in question and seek injunctive or declaratory relief against them.  See Ex parte Young,

209 U.S. 123, 159–160 (1908).  Despite the artifice, of course, a State will as a practical matter often retain a strong interest in this kind of litigation.  After all, however captioned, a suit of this sort can implicate “the continued enforceability of [the State’s] own statutes.”  Maine v. Taylor,

477 U.S. 131, 137 (1986).  To defend its practical interests, the State may choose to mount a legal defense of the named official defendants and speak with a “single voice,” often through an attorney general.  Virginia House of Delegates v. Bethune-Hill, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 5).

															Still, not every State has structured itself this way.  Some have chosen to authorize multiple officials to defend their practical interests in cases like these.  See ibid.  North Carolina falls into this camp.  The State’s attorney general wields some authority to represent individual official defendants in federal litigation.  See Martin v. Thornburg, 320 N. C. 533, 545–546, 359 S.E.2d 472, 479 (1987); N. C. Const., Art. III, §§ 7(1), (2) (establishing the office of attorney general and declaring that his “duties shall be prescribed by law”).  But North Carolina’s General Assembly has also empowered the leaders of its two legislative houses to participate in litigation on the State’s behalf under certain circumstances and with counsel of their own choosing.  See N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 1–72.2 (2021).

															The reasons why a State might choose to proceed this way are understandable enough.  Sometimes leaders in different branches of government may see the State’s interests at stake in litigation differently.  Some States may judge that important public perspectives would be lost without a mechanism allowing multiple officials to respond.  It seems North Carolina has some experience with just these sorts of issues.  More than once a North Carolina attorney general has opposed laws enacted by the General Assembly and declined to defend them fully in federal litigation.  See, e.g., North Carolina v. North Carolina State Conference of NAACP, 581 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (Roberts, C. J., statement respecting denial of certiorari) (slip op., at 2); App. 79; see also N. Devins & S. Prakash, Fifty States, Fifty Attorneys General, and Fifty Approaches to the Duty To Defend, 124 Yale L. J. 2100, 2152, n. 217, 2187 (2015).

															B

															The facts of this case also illustrate how divided state government can lead to disagreements over the defense of state law in federal court.  In November 2018, the people of North Carolina amended the State Constitution to provide that “[v]oters offering to vote in person shall present photographic identification [(photo ID)].”  Art. VI, § 2(4).  The people further provided that “[t]he General Assembly shall enact general laws governing the requirements of such photographic identification, which may include exceptions.”  Ibid.  Consistent with that directive, the General Assembly eventually approved Senate Bill 824 (S. B. 824).  2017 Gen. Assem., 2018 Reg. Sess.  Under that law’s terms, those seeking to vote must do one of three things: present an acceptable photo ID, complete a provisional ballot and later produce a photo ID, or submit a form explaining why they cannot present a photo ID.  See N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §§ 163A–1145.1(a), (c), (d), as added by § 1.2(a), 2018 N. C. Sess. Laws 144, pp. 73–74.  Photo ID cards are available free of charge in each of the State’s 100 counties without the need for corroborating documentation.  § 163A–869.1, as added by § 1.1(a), id., at 72–73.  After the law’s passage, the Governor vetoed the bill, the General Assembly responded by overriding that veto, and S. B. 824 went into effect on December 19, 2018.

															The next day, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) sued the Governor and the members of the State Board of Elections (collectively, Board).  The Governor appoints the Board’s members and may remove them under certain circumstances.  See N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §§ 143B–16, 163–19, 163–40.  In its lawsuit, the NAACP alleged that S. B. 824 offends the Federal Constitution.  The State’s attorney general assumed responsibility for defending the Board.  See § 114–2.  Like the Governor, the attorney general is an independently elected official.  See N. C. Const., Art. III, § 7(1).  Much like the Governor, too, while serving as a state senator the attorney general voted against an earlier voter-ID law and filed a declaration in support of a legal challenge against it.  See North Carolina State Conference of NAACP v. McCrory, 997 F. Supp. 2d 322, 337–338, 357–359 (MDNC 2014).

															Soon, the speaker of the State House of Representatives and president pro tempore of the State Senate (legislative leaders) moved to intervene.  App. 52.  They noted that North Carolina law expressly authorizes them “to intervene on behalf of the General Assembly as a party in any judicial proceeding challenging a North Carolina statute or provision of the North Carolina Constitution.”  N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 1–72.2(b).  They observed that, in cases of this sort, state law further provides that “both the General Assembly and the Governor constitute the State of North Carolina.”  § 1–72.2(a).  And the legislative leaders suggested that, without their participation, important state interests would not be adequately represented in light of the Governor’s opposition to S. B. 824, the Board’s allegiance to the Governor, and the attorney general’s opposition to earlier voter-ID efforts.  App. 65–70.  Finally, the legislative leaders pointed to parallel state-court proceedings in which they claimed the Board had offered only a “tepid” defense of S. B. 824.  Id., at 127, n. 1.

															The District Court denied the motion to intervene. North Carolina State Conference of NAACP v. Cooper, 332 F.R.D. 161 (MDNC 2019).  In doing so, the court applied a “presumption” that the legislative leaders’ interests would be adequately represented by the Governor and Board and their legal representative, the attorney general.  Id., at 168–170.  On the court’s view, the legislative leaders might someday have an interest sufficient to warrant intervention if the existing parties refused to offer any defense of S. B. 824.  Id., at 166.  But because nothing like that had yet happened, the District Court denied the motion to intervene without prejudice to renewal later.  Id., at 172–173.

															In time, the legislative leaders took up the District Court’s offer to renew their motion.  They pointed to this Court’s intervening decision in Bethune-Hill, which “clarified” that legislative leaders sometimes may be legally entitled to intervene and represent “the interest of the State in defending the constitutionality of ” a state law.  App. 159.  They also updated the District Court on the Board’s conduct in state-court proceedings.  There, the Board had conceded that its “ ‘primary objective’ ” wasn’t defending S. B. 824, but obtaining guidance regarding which law it would need to enforce in an upcoming election (S. B. 824 or preexisting law).  Id., at 156.  Seizing on this concession, the state-court plaintiffs argued that even the Board did not think it would ultimately prevail on the merits.  Id., at 157.  In the end, however, the District Court was unmoved by these developments.  It denied the legislative leaders’ renewed motion and addressed Bethune-Hill only in a footnote stating that the decision did not “change the calculus.”  North Carolina State Conference of NAACP v. Cooper, 2019 WL 5840845, *2, n. 3 (MDNC, Nov. 7, 2019).

															As the federal litigation proceeded without the legislative leaders, the NAACP sought a preliminary injunction to prevent the Board from enforcing S. B. 824 in upcoming elections.  By this point, the District Court had dismissed the Governor from the suit.  Only the Board members, represented by the attorney general, remained as defendants.  In support of its motion for injunctive relief, the NAACP offered five expert reports.  In reply, the Board did not oppose the motion on timeliness grounds even though the NAACP had waited nine months before seeking what it described as critical emergency relief.  See App. 311–313; Memorandum of Law in No. 1:18–cv–1034 (MDNC, Sept. 17, 2019), ECF Doc. 73.  Nor did the Board produce competing expert reports.  Instead, it supplied a single affidavit from its executive director and stressed again the need for clarity about which law to apply.  App. 312.  Once more unsatisfied with the vigor of the Board’s response, the legislative leaders sought to lodge an amicus brief, five expert reports, and several other declarations.  At the end of the day, however, the District Court refused to consider the amicus brief and accompanying materials, struck them from the record, and granted a preliminary injunction barring enforcement of S. B. 824.  North Carolina State Conference of NAACP v. Cooper, 430 F. Supp. 3d 15, 54 (MDNC 2019).

															C

															The Fourth Circuit took up the District Court’s preliminary injunction and intervention rulings in separate appeals before separate panels.  While these appeals were pending, the Board did not seek an interim stay of the District Court’s preliminary injunction.  Apparently, it chose not to do so “due to the disruptive effect such relief would have had on” election administration.  App. 366, n. 8.  As a result, S. B. 824 was not enforced during the State’s March 2020 primary election.

															In the appeal concerning the District Court’s preliminary injunction ruling, the legislative leaders sought leave to intervene and the Fourth Circuit granted their motion.  See Order in North Carolina State Conference of NAACP v. Raymond, No. 20–1092 (CA4, Mar. 27, 2020), ECF Doc. 43.  Meanwhile, the Governor filed an amicus brief contending that the District Court had not gone far enough:  “[The] preliminary injunctio[n] should be made permanent, and . . . this unconstitutional law should never go into effect.”  App. 844.  After considering all the submissions before it, a unanimous panel of the Court of Appeals largely agreed with the legislative leaders and reversed.  North Carolina State Conference of NAACP v. Raymond, 981 F.3d 295, 298 (2020).  The panel held that the District Court had abused its discretion in issuing the preliminary injunction because the record contained insufficient evidence to show that S. B. 824 violated the Federal Constitution.  In particular, the panel explained that North Carolina’s law “is more protective of the right to vote than other states’ voter ID laws that courts have approved.”  Id., at 310.  Later, the Court of Appeals denied rehearing en banc; no judge noted a dissent.  Any further District Court proceedings were thus left to unfold without a preliminary injunction in place.

															Separately and hoping to participate in those future proceedings, the legislative leaders asked another panel of the Fourth Circuit to vacate the District Court’s decision denying their motion to intervene.  The legislative leaders stressed that state law expressly authorizes them to participate in cases like this one, and they argued that they satisfied all the requirements for intervention as a matter of right under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 24(a)(2).  For its part, the Court of Appeals again agreed with the legislative leaders, this time holding that the District Court had erred when denying them leave to intervene.  970 F.3d 489, 503–504, 506 (2020).

															Eventually, however, the Fourth Circuit decided to rehear the matter en banc and changed course.  A nine-judge majority ruled that the legislative leaders were not entitled to intervene in District Court proceedings because they could not overcome a “heightened presumption” that the Board already “adequately represented” their interests.  999 F.3d 915, 927, 932–934 (2021).  Six judges dissented.  Among other things, the dissenters suggested that the majority had erred by “ignor[ing] North Carolina’s law requesting two agents in cases challenging the constitutionality of its duly-enacted statutes” and by “setting the bar for the Intervenors to clear too high.”  Id., at 945 (opinion of Quattlebaum, J.); see also id., at 939 (opinion of Wilkinson, J.); id., at 941 (opinion of Niemeyer, J.).

															The legislative leaders responded by petitioning this Court to review the Fourth Circuit’s en banc ruling.  We agreed to hear the matter in order to resolve disagreements among the circuits about the proper treatment of motions to intervene in cases like this one.  595 U. S. ___ (2021).

															II

															Our starting point lies in Rule 24(a)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.  As relevant here, the Rule provides that a “court must permit anyone to intervene” who, (1) “[o]n timely motion,” (2) “claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action, and is so situated that disposing of the action may as a practical matter impair or impede the movant’s ability to protect its interest,” (3) “unless existing parties adequately represent that interest.”  Everyone before us agrees that the legislative leaders’ motion to intervene was timely.  The only disagreements we face concern the Rule’s two remaining requirements.

															A

															We focus first on the question whether the legislative leaders have claimed an interest in the resolution of this lawsuit that may be practically impaired or impeded without their participation.  No one questions that States possess “ ‘a legitimate interest in the continued enforce[ment] of [their] own statutes.’ ”  Cameron v. EMW Women’s Surgical Center, P. S. C., 595 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 8) (quoting Taylor, 477 U. S., at 137).  No one questions that States may organize themselves in a variety of ways.  After all, the separation of government powers has long been recognized as vital to the preservation of liberty, and it is through the power to “structure . . . its government, and the character of those who exercise government authority, [that] a State defines itself as a sovereign.”  Gregory v. Ashcroft,

501 U.S. 452, 460 (1991).  Nor does anyone question that, when a State chooses to allocate authority among different officials who do not answer to one another, different interests and perspectives, all important to the administration of state government, may emerge.  See, e.g., Brnovich v. Democratic National Committee, 594 U. S. ___ (2021) (Arizona’s secretary of state and attorney general took opposite sides).

															Appropriate respect for these realities suggests that federal courts should rarely question that a State’s interests will be practically impaired or impeded if its duly authorized representatives are excluded from participating in federal litigation challenging state law.  To hold otherwise would not only evince disrespect for a State’s chosen means of diffusing its sovereign powers among various branches and officials.  It would not only risk turning a deaf federal ear to voices the State has deemed crucial to understanding the full range of its interests.  It would encourage plaintiffs to make strategic choices to control which state agents they will face across the aisle in federal court.  It would tempt litigants to select as their defendants those individual officials they consider most sympathetic to their cause or most inclined to settle favorably and quickly.  All of which would risk a hobbled litigation rather than a full and fair adversarial testing of the State’s interests and arguments.

															Nor are state interests the only interests at stake.  Respecting the States’ “plan[s] for the distribution of governmental powers” also serves important national interests.  Mayor of Philadelphia v. Educational Equality League,

415 U.S. 605, 615, n. 13 (1974).  It better enables the States to serve as a “balance” to federal authority.  Bond v. United States,

564 U.S. 211, 221 (2011).  It permits States to accommodate government to local conditions and circumstances.  See ibid.  And it allows States to serve as laboratories of “innovation and experimentation” from which the federal government itself may learn and from which a “mobile citizenry” benefits.  Gregory, 501 U. S., at 458.  Finally, a federal court tasked with testing the constitutionality of state law wields weighty “authority over a State’s most fundamental political processes.”  Alden v. Maine,

527 U.S. 706, 751 (1999).  Permitting the participation of lawfully authorized state agents promotes informed federal-court decisionmaking and avoids the risk of setting aside duly enacted state law based on an incomplete understanding of relevant state interests.

															This Court’s teachings on these scores have been many, clear, and recent.  Earlier this Term in Cameron, we explained that a State is free to “empowe[r ] multiple officials to defend its sovereign interests in federal court.”  595 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8).  Three Terms ago in Bethune-Hill, we observed that “ ‘a State must be able to designate agents to represent it in federal court’ ” and may authorize its legislature “to litigate on the State’s behalf, either generally or in a defined set of cases.”  587 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at 4–5).  “[T]he choice belongs to” the sovereign State.  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5).  In Hollingsworth v. Perry, this Court stressed that “state law may provide for other officials,” besides an attorney general, “to speak for the State in federal court” as some States have done for their “presiding legislative officers.”

570 U.S. 693, 710 (2013).  And in Karcher v. May, this Court held that two state legislative leaders “authori[zed] under state law to represent the State’s interests” in federal court could defend state laws there as parties.

484 U.S. 72, 75, 81–82 (1987).

															These principles and precedents are dispositive here.  North Carolina has expressly authorized the legislative leaders to defend the State’s practical interests in litigation of this sort.  State law provides that “[t]he Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate, as agents of the State, by and through counsel of their choice,” “shall jointly have standing to intervene on behalf of the General Assembly as a party in any judicial proceeding challenging a North Carolina statute or provision of the North Carolina Constitution.”  N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 1–72.2(b).  Even beyond these instructions, the State has made plain that it considers the leaders of the General Assembly “necessary parties” to suits like this one.  § 120–32.6(b).

															Tellingly, the Board seems to agree that, if North Carolina law authorizes participation by the legislative leaders on behalf of the State, a federal court should find the interest requirement of Rule 24(a)(2) satisfied.  Brief for State Respondents 20, 28.  The Board submits only that, in fact, North Carolina law does not afford the legislative leaders that authority.  Id., at 49–50.  But while we are hardly the final arbiters of North Carolina law, the Board’s argument seems more than a little difficult to square with the express statutory language above.  One of these provisions is even entitled, “General Assembly Acting on Behalf of the State of North Carolina in Certain Actions.”  § 120–32.6(b).  It provides that the legislative leaders may defend state laws “as agents of the State.”  Ibid.

															Retreating, the Board argues alternatively that the statutes authorizing the legislative leaders to participate here violate the State Constitution by usurping authority vested in the executive branch.  Brief for State Respondents 50–55; N. C. Const., Art. I, § 6.  But the Board’s logic is hard to follow given its concession that the legislative leaders may intervene permissively under Rule 24(b), and likely as a matter of right under Rule 24(a)(2) if the attorney general ceases to represent the Board. Brief for State Respondents 2, 48, 55.  Nor, for that matter, does the Board identify anything to support its suggestion that the State’s executive branch holds a constitutional monopoly on representing North Carolina’s practical interests in court.  Instead, the parties direct us to a provision stating that the General Assembly may determine the scope of the attorney general’s powers.  See N. C. Const., Art. III, § 7(2); Bailey v. State, 353 N. C. 142, 152–153, 540 S.E.2d 313, 320 (2000).  And, as we have seen, while the General Assembly has afforded the attorney general considerable authority, it has also reserved to itself some authority to defend state law on behalf of the State.  See N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. § 120–32.6(b).  In fact, it seems the General Assembly has sometimes even entrusted the defense of state interests to private persons.  See § 1–608(b) (permitting private citizens to bring false-claims actions “for the State”).

															The NAACP offers a different reply.  It points out that Rule 24(a)(2) permits intervention only by “new” parties.  And, it submits, the legislative leaders are already effectively “existing” parties to this suit challenging the enforcement of state law.  Brief for NAACP Respondents 12–14.  But whatever other problems may attend this argument, it rests on a premise that is both formally and functionally mistaken.  As a formal matter and consistent with principles of sovereign immunity, the NAACP has not sued the State.  Only state officers are or may be “parties” here—and, so far, the legislative leaders are not among them.  See Young, 209 U. S., at 159–160.  Functionally, of course, this suit implicates North Carolina’s sovereign interests regardless of the named parties.  See Part I–A, supra.  Yet, contrary to the premise implicit in the NAACP’s argument, a plaintiff who chooses to name this or that official defendant does not necessarily and always capture all relevant state interests.  Instead and as we have seen, where a State chooses to divide its sovereign authority among different officials and authorize their participation in a suit challenging state law, a full consideration of the State’s practical interests may require the involvement of different voices with different perspectives.  To hold otherwise would risk allowing a private plaintiff to pick its preferred defendants and potentially silence those whom the State deems essential to a fair understanding of its interests.

															B

															The only remaining question we face concerns adequacy of representation.  Interpreting Rule 24(a)(2), lower courts have adopted a variety of tests for evaluating whether an existing defendant already “adequately represent[s]” the same interests a proposed intervenor seeks to vindicate.  In this case, both the District Court and the en banc Court of Appeals applied a “presumption” that the Board adequately represented the legislative leaders’ interests and held that the leaders could not overcome this presumption.  999 F. 3d, at 934; Cooper, 332 F. R. D., at 171.

															Once more, we cannot agree.  As an initial matter, Rule 24(a)(2) promises intervention to those who bear an interest that may be practically impaired or impeded “unless existing parties adequately represent that interest.”  In some cases, too, this Court has described the Rule’s test as presenting proposed intervenors with only a minimal challenge.

															Take Trbovich v. Mine Workers, in which this Court addressed a request to intervene by a private party who asserted a related interest to that of an existing government party.

404 U.S. 528 (1972).  There, the Secretary of Labor sued to set aside a union election.  The same union member who filed the administrative complaint that triggered the Secretary’s suit sought to intervene under Rule 24(a).  Id., at 529–530.  At a high level of abstraction, the union member’s interest and the Secretary’s might have seemed closely aligned.  Even so, this Court rejected the Secretary’s suggestion that he should be presumed an adequate representative of the union member’s interests “unless the court . . . find[s] that the Secretary has failed to perform his statutory duty.”  Id., at 538.  The Court acknowledged that the Secretary’s and the union member’s interests were “related,” but it emphasized that the interests were not “identical”—the union member sought relief against his union, full stop; meanwhile, the Secretary also had to bear in mind broader public-policy implications.  Id., at 538–539.  Rather than endorse a presumption of adequacy, the Court held that a movant’s burden in circumstances like these “should be treated as minimal.”  Id., at 538, n. 10.

															To be sure, some lower courts have suggested that a presumption of adequate representation remains appropriate in certain classes of cases.  But even taken on their own terms, none of these presumptions applies to cases like ours.  For example, the Fourth Circuit has endorsed a presumption of adequate representation where a member of the public seeks to intervene to defend a law alongside the government.  See 999 F. 3d, at 932–933.  There, the Fourth Circuit has reasoned, a court may presume that legally authorized government agents will adequately represent the public’s interest in its chosen laws.  Here, by contrast, the legislative leaders are among those North Carolina has expressly authorized to participate in litigation to protect the State’s interests in its duly enacted laws.  Id., at 951 (Quattlebaum, J., dissenting).

															Similarly, some lower courts have adopted a presumption of adequate representation in cases where a movant’s interests are identical to those of an existing party.  See 7C C. Wright, A. Miller, & M. Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure § 1909 (3d ed. Supp. 2022) (Wright & Miller).  But even the Board concedes that this presumption applies only when interests “overla[p] fully.”  Brief for State Respondents 26.  Where “the absentee’s interest is similar to, but not identical with, that of one of the parties,” that normally is not enough to trigger a presumption of adequate representation.  7C Wright & Miller § 1909.  And again, a presumption like that holds no purchase here.  North Carolina has authorized different agents to defend its practical interests precisely because, thanks to how it has structured its government, each may be expected to vindicate different points of view on the State’s behalf.  For a federal court to presume a full overlap of interests when state law more nearly presumes the opposite would make little sense and do much violence to our system of cooperative federalism.  In cases like ours, state agents may pursue “related” state interests, but they cannot be fairly presumed to bear “identical” ones.  Trbovich, 404 U. S., at 538.

															In the end, to resolve this case we need not decide whether a presumption of adequate representation might sometimes be appropriate when a private litigant seeks to defend a law alongside the government or in any other circumstance.  We need only acknowledge that a presumption of adequate representation is inappropriate when a duly authorized state agent seeks to intervene to defend a state law.  In its en banc decision, the Fourth Circuit reasoned that “a proposed intervenor’s governmental status makes a heightened presumption of adequacy more appropriate, not less.”  999 F. 3d, at 933; accord, Planned Parenthood of Wis., Inc. v. Kaul, 942 F.3d 793, 801 (CA7 2019).  But, respectfully, that gets things backward.  Any presumption against intervention is especially inappropriate when wielded to displace a State’s prerogative to select which agents may defend its laws and protect its interests.  Normally, a State’s chosen representatives should be greeted in federal court with respect, not adverse presumptions.  If the intervenor in Trbovich faced only a “minimal” burden, it cannot be that duly designated state agents seeking to vindicate state law should have to clear some higher hurdle.

															Setting aside the lower courts’ erroneous presumptions, the proper resolution of today’s case follows quickly.  Casting aspersions on no one, this litigation illustrates how divided state governments sometimes warrant participation by multiple state officials in federal court.  See 999 F. 3d, at 939–941 (Wilkinson, J., dissenting).  Recall just some of the facts of this case.  See Parts I–B and I–C, supra.  When confronted with a motion for a preliminary injunction, the Board declined to offer expert-witness affidavits in support of S. B. 824, even though its opponent offered many and the legislative leaders sought to supplement the record with their own.  After the District Court issued its (ultimately overturned) injunction, the Board declined to seek a stay.  That tactical choice, motivated by the Board’s overriding concern for stability and certainty, meant that the State could not enforce its new law during a statewide election.  Throughout, Board members have been appointed and potentially removable by a Governor who vetoed S. B. 824 and who filed his own briefs in this litigation calling the law “unconstitutional” and arguing that it “should never go into effect.”  See supra, at 6.  And at all times, the Board has been represented by an attorney general who, though no doubt a vigorous advocate for his clients’ interests, is also an elected official who may feel allegiance to the voting public or share the Board’s administrative concerns.

															The legislative leaders seek to give voice to a different perspective.  Their “primary objective” is not clarifying which law applies.  See supra, at 5.  They are not burdened by misgivings about the law’s wisdom.  If allowed to intervene, the legislative leaders say, they will focus on defending the law vigorously on the merits without an eye to crosscutting administrative concerns.  And, they add, the differences between their interest and the Board’s in this case demonstrate why state law empowers them to participate in litigation over the validity of state legislation—alive as it is to the possibility that different branches of government may seek to vindicate different and valuable state interests.  Perhaps recognizing all this, the Fourth Circuit itself allowed the legislative leaders to intervene in the appeal from the District Court’s preliminary injunction ruling.  The same result should follow here.

															By way of reply, the NAACP—but not the Board—worries that allowing the legislative leaders to intervene could “make trial management impossible.”  Brief for NAACP Respondents 26; but see Tr. of Oral Arg. 64 (noting that the Board has “no problem litigating alongside” the legislative leaders).  We are not insensitive to the concern.  In some other case, a proliferation of motions to intervene may be a cause for caution.  At some point, too, it may be that the interests of existing parties will come to overlap fully with the interests of any remaining proposed intervenor.

															But that case is not this case.  Not only do the legislative leaders bring a distinct state interest to bear on this litigation.  No one has suggested that a cascade of motions lies on the horizon here.  Recall that the NAACP initially named the Governor as a defendant.  Absent his eventual dismissal from this litigation, the Governor might have been able to hire his own outside counsel while the attorney general continued to represent the Board.  See Martin, 320 N. C., at 547–548, 359 S. E. 2d, at 480.  Introducing the legislative leaders and their counsel after the Governor’s departure may not represent a neat one-for-one swap.  But litigation on this scale is hardly inconsistent with what the Board and the NAACP originally anticipated.

															Nor is it unusual.  In matters ranging from civil-rights actions to suits testing the constitutionality of state or federal legislation, federal courts routinely handle cases involving multiple officials sometimes represented by different attorneys taking different positions.  See, e.g., Whole Woman’s Health v. Jackson, 595 U. S. ___ (2021); Brnovich, 594 U. S. ___; United States v. Windsor,

570 U.S. 744 (2013); Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. FCC,

497 U.S. 547 (1990); Buckley v. Valeo,

424 U.S. 1 (1976) (per curiam).  This Court even hears cases in which officials from a single State have sued each other in federal court.  See, e.g., Virginia Office for Protection and Advocacy v. Stewart,

563 U.S. 247 (2011).  Whatever additional burdens adding the legislative leaders to this case may pose, those burdens fall well within the bounds of everyday case management.[1]*

															*

															Through the General Assembly, the people of North Carolina have authorized the leaders of their legislature to defend duly enacted state statutes against constitutional challenge.  Ordinarily, a federal court must respect that kind of sovereign choice, not assemble presumptions against it.  Having satisfied the terms of Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 24(a)(2), North Carolina’s legislative leaders are entitled to intervene in this litigation.  The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit is

															

															Reversed.
Notes
1
*The parties disagree whether our review of this case should be governed by a de novo or abuse-of-discretion standard.  We find it unnecessary to resolve that question because, even under the latter and more forgiving standard, a misunderstanding of applicable law generally constitutes reversible error.  See Cooter & Gell v. Hartmarx Corp.,

496 U.S. 384, 405 (1990).  And here the lower courts erred as a matter of law at both relevant steps of the Rule 24(a)(2) analysis, first by failing to afford due respect to North Carolina’s law designating the legislative leaders as its agents in litigation of this sort, and then by “setting the [intervention] bar . . . too high.”  999 F.3d 915, 945 (CA4 2021) (Quattlebaum, J., dissenting).  Likewise, because we hold that the legislative leaders are entitled to intervene as a matter of right under Rule 24(a)(2), we need not decide their alternative request for permissive intervention under Rule 24(b). 


