::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-055
::decision_cite:: 21-234
::decision_name::  George v. McDonough
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–234

															_________________

															KEVIN R. GEORGE, PETITIONER v. DENIS R. McDONOUGH, SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the federal circuit

															[June 15, 2022]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, dissenting.

															I join all but Part II–C of Justice Gorsuch’s dissent.  The Board of Veterans’ Appeals (Board) clearly and unmistakably violated a statutory command in its decision denying petitioner Kevin George’s application for service-related benefits.  As Justice Gorsuch explains, in the context of this specific statutory framework, the mere fact that the Board relied on a plainly invalid regulation does not shield its final decision from review based on clear and unmistakable error.[1]

															The Court thinks otherwise.  In support of its holding, the Court notes that Congress, when it enacted the clear-and-unmistakable-error statutes in 1997, codified a pre-existing regulatory doctrine under which clear and unmistakable error did not encompass a subsequent “change in interpretation of law.”  38 CFR §3.105 (Cum. Supp. 1963); see ante, at 5–6.  I agree that Congress incorporated this pre-existing regulatory doctrine based on its use of “clear and unmistakable error,” a longstanding term of art.  See ante, at 5, 12.[2]  I diverge from Justice Gorsuch on this point.  The question remains, however: What constitutes a “change in interpretation of law” excluded from clear and unmistakable error?  In George’s view, a change in interpretation of law occurs where “an agency . . . choos[es] another permissible alternative construction” of a statute, but not where, as here, a court invalidates a regulation that had egregiously violated the governing statute all along.  Brief for Petitioner 18; see also post, at 4–5 (Gorsuch, J., dissenting).

															The Court disagrees.  It holds that under the pre-existing doctrine, judicial invalidation of an unmistakably erroneous regulation was understood to constitute a “change in interpretation of law” for purposes of clear and unmistakable error.  See ante, at 5–9.  The Court’s citations offer little support for this conclusion, however.  In Berger v. Brown, 10 Vet. App. 166, 170 (1997), for example, the Court of Veterans Appeals (Veterans Court) stated that opinions from that body “that formulate new interpretations of the law . . . cannot be the basis of a valid [clear-and-unmistakable-error] claim.”  But the Veterans Court emphasized that the decision under attack, unlike the Board’s decision in George’s case, had followed “a plausible interpretation of the law,” precluded by “nothing in the plain language of the statute,” and added that “[t]he statute was, and still is for that matter, susceptible of differing interpretations.”  Ibid.  Similarly, in Damrel v. Brown, 6 Vet. App. 242, 246 (1994), the relevant change in interpretation of law was a Veterans Court-created rule, not the invalidation of a regulation as clearly contrary to the governing statute.  And although it was well established by 1997 that clear and unmistakable error “must be based on . . . the law that existed at the time of the prior . . . decision,” Russell v. Principi, 3 Vet. App. 310, 314 (1992) (en banc), this is not inconsistent with George’s request for review based on the plain terms of a statute as it existed in 1977, when the Board ruled against him.

															Other authorities relied upon by the Court are equivocal.  The VA opined in 1994 that invalidation of a regulation by the Veterans Court constituted a “ ‘change in interpretation of law,’ ” but it also admitted “that VA’s historical approach has not been entirely consistent.”  Op. Gen. Counsel Precedent 9–94, ¶¶6, 8, pp. 4–5 (Mar. 25).   Meanwhile, the Veterans Court’s 1992 decision in Look v. Derwinski, 2 Vet. App. 157, while not a model of clarity, undeniably “approv[ed of] collateral relief ” based on “a later invalidated regulation,” as the Court recognizes.  Ante, at 8.

															My takeaway from these conflicting authorities is that the pre-existing doctrine Congress incorporated in 1997 was unsettled as to whether judicial invalidation of a regulation that squarely contravened an unambiguous statute constituted a “change in interpretation of law.”  In other words, where the Court perceives certainty, I see at most confusion.  Confronted with an ambiguity in the scheme Congress codified into statute, I would apply the venerable “ ‘canon that provisions for benefits to members of the Armed Services are to be construed in the beneficiaries’ favor.’ ”  Henderson v. Shinseki,

562 U.S. 428, 441 (2011) (quoting King v. St. Vincent’s Hospital,

502 U.S. 215, 220–221, n. 9 (1991)).  Accordingly, I would hold that George may seek review based on clear and unmistakable error.

															For these reasons, as well as others set forth by Justice Gorsuch, I respectfully dissent.
Notes
1
 In my view, some invalid Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) regulations might not be erroneous enough for reliance on them to constitute clear and unmistakable error.  After all, by definition, not every error is clear and unmistakable.  The Board’s 1977 decision in George’s case, however, meets this demanding standard.  The presumption-of-soundness regulation the Board applied was clearly and unmistakably contrary to the unambiguous terms of

38 U. S. C. §1111, as even the VA eventually conceded.  See post, at 2–3 (Gorsuch, J., dissenting). 

2
 Were there any doubt, legislative history would render the conclusion unavoidable.  See H. R. Rep. No. 105–52, pp. 1–2 (1997) (“H. R. 1090 would . . . codify existing regulations which make [VA] decisions . . . subject to revision on the grounds of clear and unmistakable error”); S. Rep. No. 105–57, p. 4 (1997) (“The Committee bill . . . would codify, in statute, the allowance currently specified by regulation” for review based on clear and unmistakable error). 


