::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-376
::decision_name::  Haaland v. Brackeen
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 21–376, 21–377,
21–378 and 21–380

															_________________

															DEB HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,
et al., PETITIONERS

															21–376v.

															CHAD EVERET BRACKEEN, et al.

															

															CHEROKEE NATION, et al.,
PETITIONERS

															21–377v.

															CHAD EVERET BRACKEEN, et al.

															

															TEXAS, PETITIONER

															21–378v.

															DEB HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,
et al.

															

															CHAD EVERET BRACKEEN, et al.,
PETITIONERS

															21–380v.

															DEB HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,
et al.

															

															on writs of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 15, 2023]

															Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Sotomayor
and Justice Jackson join as to Parts I and III, concurring.

															In affirming the constitutionality of the Indian
Child Welfare Act (ICWA), the Court safeguards the ability of
tribal members to raise their children free from interference by
state authorities and other outside parties. In the process, the
Court also goes a long way toward restoring the original balance
between federal, state, and tribal powers the Constitution
envisioned. I am pleased to join the Court’s opinion in full.
I write separately to add some historical context. To appreciate
fully the significance of today’s decision requires an
understanding of the long line of policies that drove Congress to
adopt ICWA. And to appreciate why that law surely comports with the
Constitution requires a bird’s-eye view of how our founding
document mediates between competing federal, state, and tribal
claims of sovereignty.

															I

															The Indian Child Welfare Act did not emerge
from a vacuum. It came as a direct response to the mass removal of
Indian children from their families during the 1950s, 1960s, and
1970s by state officials and private parties. That practice, in
turn, was only the latest iteration of a much older policy of
removing Indian children from their families—one initially
spearheaded by federal officials with the aid of their state
counterparts nearly 150 years ago. In all its many forms, the
dissolution of the Indian family has had devastating effects on
children and parents alike. It has also presented an existential
threat to the continued vitality of Tribes—something many
federal and state officials over the years saw as a feature, not as
a flaw. This is the story of ICWA. And with this story, it pays to
start at the beginning.

															A

															When Native American Tribes were forced onto
reservations, they understood that life would never again be as it
was. M. Fletcher & W. Singel, Indian Children and the
Federal–Tribal Trust Relationship, 95 Neb. L. Rev. 885,
917–918 (2017) (Fletcher & Singel). Securing a foothold
for their children in a rapidly changing world, the Tribes knew,
would require schooling. Ibid. So as they ceded their lands,
Tribes also negotiated “more than 150” treaties with
the United States that included “education-related
provisions.” Dept. of Interior, B. Newland, Federal Indian
Boarding School Initiative Investigative Report 33 (May 2022) (BIA
Report). Many tribal leaders hoped these provisions would lead to
the creation of “reservation Indian schools that would blend
traditional Indian education with the needed non-Indian skills that
would allow their members to adapt to the reservation way of
life.” R. Cross, American Indian Education: The Terror of
History and the Nation’s Debt to the Indian Peoples, 21 U.
Ark. Little Rock L. Rev. 941, 950 (1999).

															At first, Indian education typically came in the
form of day schools, many of them “established through the
. . . efforts of missionaries or the wives of Army
officers stationed at military reservations in the Indian
country.” Annual Report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
to the Secretary of Interior, p. LXI (1886) (ARCIA 1886). At
those day schools, “Indian children would learn English as a
second language,” along with “math and science.”
Fletcher & Singel 917–918. But the children lived at home
with their families where they could continue to learn and practice
“their languages, beliefs, and traditional knowledge.”
Id., at 918. At least in those “early decades,”
schooling was “generally . . . not
compulsory” anyway. Id., at 914.

															The federal government had darker designs. By
the late 1870s, its goals turned toward destroying tribal identity
and assimilating Indians into broader society. See L. Lacey, The
White Man’s Law and the American Indian Family in the
Assimilation Era, 40 Ark. L. Rev. 327, 356–357 (1986).
Achieving those goals, officials reasoned, required the
“complete isolation of the Indian child from his savage
antecedents.” ARCIA 1886, at LXI. And because “the warm
reciprocal affection existing between parents and children”
was “among the strongest characteristics of the Indian
nature,” officials set out to eliminate it by dissolving
Indian families. Annual Report of the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs to the Secretary of Interior 392 (1904).

															Thus began Indian boarding schools. In 1879, the
Carlisle Indian Industrial School opened its doors at the site of
an old military base in central Pennsylvania. Carlisle’s
head, then-Captain Richard Henry Pratt, summarized the
school’s mission this way: “[A]ll the Indian there is
in the race should be dead. Kill the Indian in him, and save the
man.” The Advantages of Mingling Indians With Whites, in
Proceedings of the National Conference of Charities and Correction
46 (I. Barrows ed. 1892). From its inception, Carlisle depended on
state support. The school “was deeply enmeshed with local
governments and their services,” and it was “expanded
thanks to the Pennsylvania Legislature.” Brief for American
Historical Association et al. as Amici Curiae 11
(Historians Brief ). Ultimately, Carlisle became the model for
what would become a system of 408 similar federal institutions
nationwide. BIA Report 82. “The essential feature” of
each was, in the federal government’s own words, “the
abolition of the old tribal relations.” Annual Report of the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs to the Secretary of Interior 28
(1910).

															Unsurprisingly, “[m]any Indian families
resisted” the federal government’s boarding school
initiative and “refus[ed] to send their children.”
S. Rep. No. 91–501, pt. 1, p. 12 (1969). But
Congress would not be denied. It authorized the Secretary of the
Interior to “prevent the issuing of rations or the furnishing
of subsistence” to Indian families who would not surrender
their children. Act of Mar. 3, 1893, 27Stat. 628, 635; see also,
e.g., Act of Feb. 14, 1920, 41Stat. 410. When economic
coercion failed, officials sometimes resorted to abduction. See BIA
Report 36. As one official later recounted, officers would
“visit the [Indian] camps unexpectedly with a detachment of
[officers], and seize such children as were proper and take them
away to school, willing or unwilling.” ARCIA 1886, at 199.
When parents “hurried their children off to the mountains or
hid them away in camp,” agents “chase[d] and capture[d]
them like so many wild rabbits.” Ibid. Fathers were
described as “sullen,” mothers “loud in their
lamentations,” and the children “almost out of their
wits with fright.” Ibid.

															Upon the children’s arrival, the boarding
schools would often seek to strip them of nearly every aspect of
their identity. The schools would take away their Indian names and
give them English ones. See BIA Report 53. The schools would cut
their hair—a point of shame in many native communities, see
J. Reyhner & J. Eder, American Indian Education 178
(2004)—and confiscate their traditional clothes. ARCIA 1886,
at 199. Administrators delighted in the process, describing the
“metamorphosis [a]s wonderful,” and professing that, in
the main, “the little savage seems quite proud of his
appearance.” Ibid. After intake, the schools
frequently prohibited children from speaking their native language
or engaging in customary cultural or religious practices. BIA
Report 53. Nor could children freely associate with members of
their own Tribe. Schools would organize dorms by the “[s]ize
of cadets, and not their tribal relations,” so as to further
“br[eak] up tribal associations.” ARCIA 1886, at 6.

															Resistance could invite punishments that
included “withholding food” and “whipping.”
BIA Report 54 (internal quotation marks omitted). Older boys faced
“court-martial,” with other Indian children serving as
prosecutors and judges. Annual Report of the Commissioner of Indian
Affairs to the Secretary of Interior 188 (1881). Even compliant
students faced “[r]ampant physical, sexual, and emotional
abuse; disease; malnourishment; overcrowding; and lack of health
care.” BIA Report 56. Given these conditions, it is
unsurprising that many children tried (often unsuccessfully) to
flee. Id., at 55, n. 176 (recounting incidents). State
officials played a key role in foiling those efforts.
“[P]olice from a variety of jurisdictions” assisted in
“captur[ing] and return[ing] runaway school children.”
Historians Brief 11–12. For “the runaways,”
school administrators believed “a whipping administered
soundly and prayerfully, helps greatly towards bringing about the
desired result.” BIA Report 55 (internal quotation marks
omitted). As one Commissioner of Indian Affairs put it, while
“[t]he first wild redskin placed in the school[s] chafes at
the loss of freedom and longs to return to his wildwood
home,” that resistance would fade “with each successive
generation,” leaving a “greater desir[e] to be in touch
with the dominant race.” Id., at 51–52 (internal
quotation marks omitted).

															Adding insult to injury, the United States stuck
Tribes with a bill for these programs. At points, as much as 95% of
the funding for Indian boarding schools came from “Indian
trust fund monies” raised by selling Indian land. Id.,
at 44. To subsidize operations further, the boarding schools
frequently required children not even 12 years old to work on the
grounds. Id., at 62–63. Some rationalized this
experience as a benefit to the children. Id., at
59–63. But in candor, Indian boarding schools “could
not possibly be maintained . . . were it not for the fact
that students [were] required to do . . . an amount of
labor that ha[d] in the aggregate a very appreciable monetary
value.” L. Meriam, Institute for Government Research, The
Problem of Indian Administration 376 (1928) (Meriam Report).

															To lower costs further and promote assimilation,
some schools created an “outing system,” which sent
Indian children to live “with white families” and
perform “household and farm chores” for them. R.
Trennert, From Carlisle to Phoenix: The Rise and Fall of the Indian
Outing System, 1878–1930, 52 Pacific Hist. Rev. 267, 273
(1983). This program took many Indian children “even further
from their homes, families, and cultures.” Fletcher &
Singel 943. Advocates of the outing system hoped it would be
“extended until every Indian child was in a white
home.” D. Otis, The Dawes Act and the Allotment of Indian
Lands 68 (1973). In some respects, outing-system advocates were
ahead of their time. The program they devised laid the groundwork
for the system of mass adoption that, as we shall see, eventually
moved Congress to enact ICWA many decades later.

															In 1928, the Meriam Report, prepared by the
Brookings Institution, examined conditions in the Indian boarding
schools. It found, “frankly and unequivocally,” that
“the provisions for the care of the Indian children
. . . are grossly inadequate.” Meriam Report 11. It
recommended that the federal government “accelerat[e]”
the “mov[e] away from the boarding school” system in
favor of “day school or public school facilities.”
Id., at 35. That transition would be slow to materialize,
though. As late as 1971, federal boarding schools continued to
house “more than 17 per cent of the Indian school-age
population.” W. Byler, The Destruction of American Indian
Families 1 (S. Unger ed. 1977) (AAIA Report).

															B

															The transition away from boarding schools was
not the end of efforts to remove Indian children from their
families and Tribes; more nearly, it was the end of the beginning.
As federal boarding schools closed their doors and Indian children
returned to the reservations, States with significant Native
American populations found themselves facing significant new
educational and welfare responsibilities. Historians Brief
13–18. Around this time, as fate would have it,
“shifting racial ideologies and changing gender norms [had]
led to an increased demand for Indian children” by adoptive
couples. M. Jacobs, Remembering the “Forgotten Child”:
The American Indian Child Welfare Crisis of the 1960s and 1970s, 37
Am. Indian Q. 136, 141 (2013). Certain States saw in this shift an
opportunity. They could “save . . . money” by
“promoting the adoption of Indian children by private
families.” Id., at 153.

															This restarted a now-familiar nightmare for
Indian families. The same assimilationist rhetoric previously
invoked by the federal government persisted, “voiced this
time by state and county officials.” L. George, Why the Need
for the Indian Child Welfare Act?, 5 J. of Multicultural Social
Work 165, 169 (1997). “ ‘If you want to solve the
Indian problem you can do it in one generation,’ ”
one official put it. Ibid. “ ‘You can take
all of [the] children of school age and move them bodily out of the
Indian country and transport them to some other part of the United
States.’ ” Ibid. This would allow
“ ‘civilized people’ ” to raise
the children, instead of their families or their tribal
communities. Ibid.

															In this respect, “[t]he removal of Indian
children by [S]tates ha[d] much in common with Indian boarding
schools.” Fletcher & Singel 952. Through the 1960s and
1970s, Indian-child removal reached new heights. Surveys conducted
in 1969 and 1974 showed that “approximately 25–35 per
cent of all Indian children [were] separated from their
families.” AAIA Report 1. Often, these removals whisked
children not only out of their families but out of their
communities. Some estimate that “more than 90 per cent of
non-related adoptions of Indian children [were] made by non-Indian
couples.” Id., at 2.

															These family separations frequently lacked
justification. According to one report, only about “1 per
cent” of the separations studied involved alleged physical
abuse. Ibid. The other 99 percent? “[V]ague
grounds” such “as ‘neglect’ or
‘social deprivation.’ ” Ibid. These
determinations, often “wholly inappropriate in the context of
Indian family life,” came mainly from non-Indian social
workers, many of whom were “ignorant of Indian cultural
values and social norms.” Id., at 2–3. They
routinely penalized Indian parents for conditions of
“[p]overty, poor housing, lack of modern plumbing, and
overcrowding.” Id., at 3. One 3-year-old Sioux child,
for instance, was removed from her family on the State’s
“belief that an Indian reservation is an unsuitable
environment for a child.” Ibid. So it was that some
Indian families, “forced onto reservations at
gunpoint,” were later “told that they live[d] in a
place unfit for raising their children.” Id., at
3–4.

															Aggravating matters, these separations were
frequently “carried out without due process of law.”
Id., at 4. Children and their parents rarely had counsel.
Ibid. For that matter, few cases saw the inside of a
courtroom. Welfare departments knew that they could threaten to
withhold benefit payments if Indian parents did not surrender
custody. Id., at 4–5. Nor were threats always
necessary. After all the Tribes had suffered at the
government’s hands, many parents simply believed they had no
power to resist. Ibid. One interviewed mother “wept
that she did not dare protest the taking of her children for fear
of going to jail.” Id., at 7. For those Indian parents
who did resist, “simple abduction” remained an option.
Id., at 5. Parents were, for instance, sometimes tricked
into signing forms that they believed authorized only a brief
removal of their children. Ibid. Only later would they
discover that the forms purported to surrender full custody.
Ibid.

															Like the boarding school system that preceded
it, this new program of removal had often-disastrous consequences.
“Because the family is the most fundamental economic,
educational, and health-care unit” in society, these
“assaults on Indian families” contributed to the
precarious conditions that Indian parents and children already
faced. Id., at 7–8. Many parents came to “feel
hopeless, powerless, and unworthy”—further feeding the
cycle of removal. Id., at 8. For many children, separation
from their families caused “severe distress” that
“interfere[d] with their physical, mental, and social growth
and development.” Ibid. It appears, too, that Indian
children were “significantly more likely” to experience
“physical, sexual, [and] emotional” abuse in foster and
adoptive homes than their white counterparts. A. Landers, S. Danes,
A. Campbell, & S. White Hawk, Abuse After Abuse: The Recurrent
Maltreatment of American Indian Children in Foster Care and
Adoption, 111 Child Abuse & Neglect 104805, p. 9
(2021).

															All that often translated into long-lasting
adverse health and emotional effects. See M. Yellow Horse Brave
Heart, The Historical Trauma Response Among Natives and Its
Relationship with Substance Abuse: A Lakota Illustration, 35 J. of
Psychoactive Drugs 1, 7–13 (2003); U. Running Bear et al.,
The Impact of Individual and Parental American Indian Boarding
School Attendance on Chronic Physical Health of Northern Plains
Tribes, 42 Family & Community Health 1, 3–7 (2019). As
one study warned: “[E]fforts to make Indian children
‘white,’ ” by removing them from their
Tribes, “can destroy them.” AAIA Report 9.

															C

															Eventually, Congress could ignore the problem
no longer. In 1978, it responded with the Indian Child Welfare Act.
92Stat. 3096. The statute’s findings show that Congress was
acutely aware of the scope of the crisis. “[A]n alarmingly
high percentage of Indian families,” Congress observed, were
being “broken up by the removal, often unwarranted, of their
children from them by nontribal [state] public and private
agencies.” 25 U. S. C. §1901(4). And “an
alarmingly high percentage of such children” were
“placed in non- Indian foster and adoptive homes and
institutions.” Ibid. Removal at that scale threatened
the “continued existence and integrity of Indian
[T]ribes.” §1901(3).

															The statute Congress settled upon contains
various provisions aimed at addressing this crisis. At bottom,
though, the law’s operation is simple. It installs
substantive and procedural guardrails against the unjustified
termination of parental rights and removal of Indian children from
tribal life.

															The touchstone of the statute is notice. In any
involuntary removal proceeding involving an Indian child, the
initiating party must inform (1) the parent or custodian; and (2)
the child’s Tribe. §1912(a). Either or both can
intervene. §1911(c). ICWA also makes it harder for the moving
party to win an involuntary removal proceeding. The party must show
that “active efforts” have been made to avoid removing
the Indian child. §1912(d). It must show the status quo is
“likely to result in serious emotional or physical damage to
the child.” §1912(e), (f ). And it must prove that
fact by “clear and convincing evidence,” §1912(e)
(for placement in foster services), or “beyond a reasonable
doubt,” §1912(f ) (for termination of parental
rights).

															Even when it comes to voluntary removal
proceedings, ICWA sets certain “minimum Federal
standards” for “the placement of [Indian] children in
foster or adoptive homes.” §1902. In any adoptive
placement, a court by default must give preference to “(1) a
member of the child’s extended family; (2) other members of
the Indian child’s [T]ribe; or (3) other Indian
families.” §1915(a). This priority governs unless the
initiating party can show “good cause.” Ibid. A
similar regime applies by default to foster-care or pre- adoptive
placements. §1915(b). But note that “by default.”
ICWA gives Tribes a voice. It allows them to establish a
“different order of preference by resolution,” provided
it is “the least restrictive setting appropriate to the
particular needs of the child.” §1915(c).

															Recognizing that coercion remains possible even
with these protections, ICWA also allows for postplacement relief.
It lets the Indian child, the parent, or the Tribe “petition
any court of competent jurisdiction” to
“invalidate” an order that violated key provisions of
ICWA. §1914. Of special relevance, an Indian parent consenting
to adoption has two years to withdraw consent on “the grounds
that consent was obtained through fraud or duress.”
§1913(d).

															ICWA is not a panacea. While “[a]dopting
ICWA marked one step toward upholding tribal rights,”
“many [S]tates” have struggled with “effective
implementation.” Maine Wabanaki–State Child Welfare
Truth & Reconciliation Commission, Beyond the Mandate:
Continuing the Conversation 12 (2015). Others resist ICWA outright,
as the present litigation by Texas attests. See generally M.
Fletcher & W. Singel, Lawyering the Indian Child Welfare Act,
120 Mich. L. Rev. 1755 (2022). Still, the statute “has
achieved considerable success in stemming unwarranted removals by
state officials of Indian children from their families and
communities.” B. Atwood, Flashpoints Under the Indian Child
Welfare Act: Toward a New Understanding of State Court Resistance,
51 Emory L. J. 587, 621 (2002). And considerable research
“[s]ubsequent to Congress’s enactment of ICWA”
has “borne out the statute’s basic
premise”—that “[i]t is generally in the best
interests of Indian children to be raised in Indian homes.”
Brief for American Psychological Association et al. as
Amici Curiae 10–24.

															II

															This history leads us to the question at the
heart of today’s cases: Did Congress lack the constitutional
authority to enact ICWA, as Texas and the private plaintiffs
contend? In truth, that is not one question, but many. What
authorities do the Tribes possess under our Constitution? What
power does Congress have with respect to tribal relations? What
does that mean for States? And how do those principles apply in a
context like adoption, which involves competing claims of federal,
state, and tribal authority?

															Answering these questions requires a full view
of the Indian-law bargain struck in our Constitution. Under the
terms of that bargain, Indian Tribes remain independent sovereigns
with the exclusive power to manage their internal matters. As a
corollary of that sovereignty, States have virtually no role to
play when it comes to Indian affairs. To preserve this equilibrium
between Tribes and States, the Constitution vests in the federal
government a set of potent (but limited and enumerated) powers. In
particular, the Indian Commerce Clause gives Congress a robust (but
not plenary) power to regulate the ways in which non-Indians may
interact with Indians. To understand each of those pieces—and
how they fit together—is to understand why the Indian Child
Welfare Act must survive today’s legal challenge.

															This is all much more straightforward than it
sounds. Take each piece of the puzzle in turn. Then, with the full
constitutional picture assembled, return to ICWA’s
provisions. By then, you will have all you need to see why the
Court upholds the law.

															A

															Start with the question how our Constitution
approaches tribal sovereignty. In the years before Jamestown,
Indian Tribes existed as “self-governing sovereign political
communities.” United States v. Wheeler,
435 U.S.
313, 322–323 (1978). They employed “sophisticated
governmental models,” formed “[c]onfederacies”
with one another, and often engaged in decisionmaking by
“consensual agreement.” 1 B. Pritzker, Native
Americans: An Encyclopedia of History, Culture, and Peoples xii
(1998).

															When the British crossed the Atlantic, they
brought with them their own legal understandings. A seasoned
colonial power, Britain was no stranger to the idea of
“tributary” and “feudatory” states. E. de
Vattel, Law of Nations 60–61 (1805) (Vattel). And it was a
long-held tenet of international law that such entities do not
“cease to be sovereign and independent” even when
subject to military conquest—at least not “so long as
self government and sovereign and independent authority are left in
the[ir] administration.” Worcester v. Georgia,
6 Pet. 515, 561 (1832). For that reason, early
“history furnishes no example, from the first settlement of
our country, of any attempt on the part of the [C]rown to interfere
with the internal affairs of the Indians.” Id., at
547; see also Vattel 60. Instead, the “settled state of
things” reflected the British view that Tribes were
“nations capable of maintaining the relations of peace and
war; [and] of governing themselves.” 6 Pet., at
548–549.

															Consistent with that understanding, the British
regarded “the Indians as owners of their land.” S.
Banner, How the Indians Lost Their Land: Law and Power on the
Frontier 12 (2005). Britain often purchased land from Tribes (at
least nominally) and predicated its system of legal title on those
purchases. Ibid. The Crown entered into all manner of
treaties with the Tribes too—just as it did with fellow
European powers. See, e.g., Letter from Gov. Burnet to Lords
of Trade, Nov. 21, 1722, concerning the Great Treaty of 1722
Between the Five Nations, the Mahicans, and the Colonies of New
York, Virginia, and Pennsylvania, in 5 Documents Relative to the
Colonial History of the State of New York 655–681 (E.
O’Callaghan ed. 1955); Deed in Trust From Three of the Five
Nations of Indians to the King in 1726, in id., at
800–801; A Treaty Held at the Town of Lancaster with the
Indians of the Six Nations in 1744, in Indian Treaties, Printed by
Benjamin Franklin, 1736–1762, pp. 43–49
(1938).

															Ultimately, “the American Revolution
replaced that legal framework with a similar one.”
Oklahoma v. Castro-Huerta, 597 U. S. ___, ___
(2022) (Gorsuch, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 2). The newly
independent Nation wasted no time entering into treaties of its
own—in no small part to secure its continued existence
against external threats. See, e.g., Articles of Agreement
and Confederation, Sept. 17, 1778, 7Stat. 13. In practice, too,
“[t]he new Republic” broadly recognized “the
sovereignty of Indian [T]ribes,” even if it did so
“sometimes grudgingly.” W. Quinn, Federal
Acknowledgment of American Indian Tribes: The Historical
Development of a Legal Concept, 34 Am. J. L. Hist. 331, 337
(1990). As we will see, the period under the Articles of
Confederation was marred by significant conflict, driven by state
and individual intrusions on tribal land. But the Constitution that
followed reflected an understanding that Tribes enjoy a power to
rule themselves that no other governmental body—state or
federal—may usurp.

															Several constitutional provisions prove the
point. One sure tell is the federal government’s treaty
power. See Art. II, §2, cl. 2. Because the United
States “adopted and sanctioned the previous treaties with the
Indian nations, [it] consequently admit[ted the Tribes’] rank
among those powers who are capable of making treaties.”
Worcester, 6 Pet., at 559. Similarly, the Commerce Clause
vests in Congress the power to “regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations,” “among the several States,” and
“with the Indian Tribes,” Art. I, §8,
cl. 3—conferrals of authority with respect to three
separate sorts of sovereign entities that do not entail the power
to eliminate any of them. Even beyond that, the Constitution
exempts from the apportionment calculus “Indians not
taxed.” §2, cl. 3. This formula “ratified the
legal treatment of tribal Indians [even] within the [S]tates as
separate and sovereign peoples, who were simply not part of the
state polities.” R. Clinton, The Dormant Indian Commerce
Clause, 27 Conn. L. Rev. 1055, 1150 (1995) (Clinton 1995).
(The Fourteenth Amendment would later reprise this language, Amdt.
14, §2, confirming both the enduring sovereignty of Tribes and
the bedrock principle that Indian status is a “political
rather than racial” classification, Morton v.
Mancari, 417 U.S.
535, 553, n. 24 (1974).)

															Given these express provisions, the early
conduct of the political branches comes as little surprise. From
the beginning, the “Washington Administration acknowledged
considerable Native autonomy.” G. Ablavsky, Beyond the Indian
Commerce Clause, 124 Yale L. J. 1012, 1067 (2015) (Ablavsky
2015). Henry Knox, President Washington’s Secretary of War,
described the Tribes as akin to “foreign nations, not as the
subjects of any particular [S]tate.” Letter to G. Washington
(July 7, 1789), in 3 Papers of George Washington: Presidential
Series 134–141 (D. Twohig ed. 1989). Thomas Jefferson spoke
of them as maintaining “full, undivided, and independent
sovereignty as long as they chose to keep it,” commenting
also “that this might be for ever.” Notes on Cabinet
Opinions (Feb. 26, 1793), in 25 Papers of Thomas Jefferson
271–272 (J. Catanzariti ed. 1992). This view would later
feature in a formal opinion of the Attorney General, who explained
that, “[s]o long as a [T]ribe exists . . . its
title and possession are sovereign and exclusive; and there exists
no authority to enter upon their lands, for any purpose whatever,
without their consent.” 1 Op. Atty. Gen. 465, 466 (1821).

															What went for the Executive went for Congress.
In the first few decades of the Nation’s existence, the
Legislative Branch passed a battery of statutes known as the Indian
Trade and Intercourse Acts. See, e.g., Act of July 22, 1790,
ch. 33, 1Stat. 137; Act of Mar. 1, 1793, ch. 19, 1Stat. 329; Act of
May 19, 1796, ch. 30, 1Stat. 469; Act of Mar. 30, 1802, ch. 13,
2Stat. 139; Act of June 30, 1834, 4Stat. 729. Without exception,
those Acts “either explicitly or implicitly regulated only
the non-Indians who venture[d] into Indian country to deal with
Indians,” and “did not purport to regulate the [T]ribes
or their members” in any way. R. Clinton, There is No Federal
Supremacy Clause for Indian Tribes, 34 Ariz. St. L. J. 113,
134 (2002) (Clinton 2002).

															This Court recognized many of these same points
in its early cases. For example, in Worcester, the State of
Georgia sought to seize Cherokee lands, abolish the Tribe and its
laws, and apply its own criminal laws to tribal lands. 6 Pet., at
525–528. Holding Georgia’s laws unconstitutional, this
Court acknowledged that Tribes remain “independent political
communities, retaining their original natural rights.”
Id., at 559. While “necessarily dependent on”
the United States, id., at 555, under “the settled
doctrine of the law of nations,” the Court held, “a
weaker power does not surrender its independence—its right to
self-government, by associating with a stronger and taking its
protection,” id., at 560–561. The Cherokee, like
other Tribes, remained “a distinct community occupying its
own territory . . . in which the laws of [the State] can
have no force, and which the citizens of [that State] have no right
to enter, but with the assent of the [Tribe] themselves, or in
conformity with treaties, and with the acts of [C]ongress.”
Id., at 561. Justice McLean, concurring, put it succinctly:
“All the rights which belong to self-government have been
recognized as vested in [the Tribes].” Id., at
580.

															In the end, President Jackson refused to abide
by the Court’s decision in Worcester, precipitating
the Trail of Tears. He is quoted as saying:
“ ‘John Marshall has made his decision; now let
him enforce it.’ ” F. Cohen, Handbook of Federal
Indian Law 123 (1942). But just as this Court had no power to
enforce its judgment, President Jackson had no power to erase its
reasoning. So the rule of Worcester persisted in courts of
law, unchanged, for decades. Recognizing the inherent sovereignty
of Tribes, this Court held that States could not tax Indian land.
See, e.g., The Kansas Indians, 5 Wall. 737,
751–761 (1867); The New York Indians, 5 Wall. 761,
771–772 (1867). It held that the Fourteenth Amendment did not
apply on Indian land. See Elk v. Wilkins, 112 U.S.
94, 99–109 (1884). And it sharply limited even the power
of the federal government to prosecute crimes between Indians on
Indian land where the Tribe had stepped in to resolve the dispute.
See Ex parte Crow Dog, 109 U.S.
556, 572 (1883).

															Nor did later developments call this original
understanding into doubt. To be sure, in 1871, Congress declared
that Tribes (prospectively) are no longer parties “with whom
the United States may contract by treaty.” Act of Mar. 3,
1871, 16Stat. 566, codified at 25 U. S. C. §71; but
see United States v. Lara, 541
U.S. 193, 218 (2004) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment)
(describing the Act as “constitutionally suspect”); M.
Pearl, Originalism and the Indians, 93 Tulane L. Rev. 269,
330–331 (2018) (Pearl) (similar). But the sponsors of that
Act sought only to increase the role of bicameral legislation in
managing Indian affairs. See Antoine v. Washington,
420 U.S.
194, 202–203 (1975). The law did not purport to
“invalidat[e] or impai[r]” any existing
“obligation of any treaty lawfully made and ratified.”
25 U. S. C. §71. And the law did not abridge, nor
could it have validly abridged, the long-settled view of tribal
sovereignty. In fact, the United States proceeded to enter into
roughly 400 further executive agreements with the Tribes
practically indistinguishable from the treaties that came before.
See generally V. Deloria & R. DeMallie, Documents of American
Indian Diplomacy: Treaties, Agreements, and Conventions,
1775–1979 (1999). Keep this original understanding of tribal
sovereignty in mind. It provides an essential point of framing.

															B

															Just as the Constitution safeguards the
sovereign authority of Tribes, it comes with a “concomitant
jurisdictional limit on the reach of state law” over Indian
affairs. McClanahan v. Arizona Tax Comm’n,
411 U.S.
164, 171 (1973). As this Court has consistently recognized,
“[t]he policy of leaving Indians free from state jurisdiction
and control is deeply rooted in the Nation’s history.”
Rice v. Olson, 324 U.S.
786, 789 (1945). Instead, responsibility for managing
interactions with the Tribes rests exclusively with the federal
government. To appreciate this point, walk through time once
more.

															Since the first days of British rule, the Crown
oversaw—and retained the power to dictate—the
Colonies’ engagement with the Indian Tribes. See Clinton
1995, at 1064–1098. In response to a pattern of conflict
arising out of colonial intrusion on tribal land, that supervision
grew increasingly exacting. Ibid.; see also R. Clinton, The
Proclamation of 1763: Colonial Prelude to Two Centuries of
Federal-State Conflict Over the Management of Indian Affairs, 69
B. U. L. Rev. 329, 331–337 (1989) (Clinton 1989).
In 1743, for example, a British royal commission rejected an effort
by the colony of Connecticut to exercise independent jurisdiction
over a Tribe within its borders. Id., at 335–336. The
decision rested on a now-familiar logic: “The Indians, though
living amongst the king’s subjects in these countries, are a
separate and distinct people from them, they are treated
with as such, they have a polity of their own, they make
peace and war with any nation of Indians when they think fit,
without controul from the English.” Opinion of
Comm’r Horsmanden, Aug. 1, 1743, in Governor and Company of
Connecticut, and Mohegan Indians, By Their Guardians 126
(1743).

															The mere suggestion of colonial management of
tribal relations catalyzed further “centralization of
oversight and control of colonial Indian regulation by the British
government,” culminating in the Proclamation of 1763. Clinton
1989, at 336. That proclamation announced the Crown’s intent
to manage all “land cessions, diplomatic and other relations,
and trade with the Indian [T]ribes,” and to displace contrary
colonial practice. Id., at 357. Britain never had a chance
to iron out the kinks of that approach before the Revolutionary War
broke out. But “[i]mmediately prior to 1776, the stage was
set” for “complete imperial control over the management
of Indian matters.” Id., at 362.

															After the Revolution, the Articles of
Confederation gave the newly formed “[U]nited [S]tates
. . . the sole and exclusive right and power of
. . . managing all affairs with the Indians, not members
of any of the [S]tates.” Art. IX (1777). In providing
that grant of authority, the Articles’ drafters may have
meant to codify the centralized approach the British had pursued.
But the “byzantine” document the drafters created,
Ablavsky 2015, at 1034, came with a pair of easily exploited
loopholes. First, the language of its Indian affairs clause allowed
some to claim that various Tribes were
“ ‘members’ ” of the States and
thus “exclusively or principally subject to state legislative
control.” Clinton 1995, at 1103, 1150. Second, owing to a
fear that the phrase “sole and exclusive” could give
the misimpression that States lacked power to manage their own
affairs, the Articles’ drafters added another clause
stipulating that “the legislative right of any [S]tate within
its own limits be not infringed or violated.” Art IX. Taken
literally, that provision meant only that the Articles left to
States what belonged to the States and to the Tribes what belonged
to the Tribes. But some States saw in that language too an
opportunity to assert their own control. See Clinton 1995, at 1103,
1107, 1113–1118, 1128–1131.

															The result? A season of conflict brought about
by state and private encroachments on tribal authority. G.
Ablavsky, The Savage Constitution, 63 Duke L. J. 999,
1035–1036 (2014) (Ablavsky 2014). By the time the
Constitutional Convention rolled around, “Indian uprisings
had occurred . . . in the Ohio River Valley and
Virginia,” “the Creeks and Georgia were on the brink of
open warfare,” and there was significant turmoil “on
the western frontier.” Clinton 1995, at 1147. Those events
were not lost on the framers. As they debated how to broker
enduring peace, two predominant schools of thought emerged. Madison
and his followers favored preventing intrusions on Indian land and
interests; Hamilton and his adherents favored resort to military
might. Ablavsky 2014, at 1035–1038. Both sides, however,
found agreement on the “need for a stronger federal
government” presence, without the impediment of state
interference. Id., at 1038.

															Even as the Constitutional Convention assembled,
a committee of the Continental Congress noted that it “had
been long understood and pretty well ascertained” that the
Crown’s absolute powers to “manag[e] Affairs with the
Indians” passed in its “entire[ty] to the Union”
following Independence, meaning that “[t]he laws of the State
can have no effect upon a [T]ribe of Indians or their lands within
the limits of the [S]tate so long as that [T]ribe is
independent.” 33 Journals of the Continental Congress
1774–1789, p. 458 (R. Hill ed. 1936). That had to be so,
the committee observed, for the same reason that individual States
could not enter treaties with foreign powers: “[T]he Indian
[T]ribes are justly considered the common friends or enemies of the
United States, and no particular [S]tate can have an exclusive
interest in the management of Affairs with any of the
[T]ribes.” Id., at 459.

															This understanding found its way directly into
the text of the Constitution. The final version assigned the newly
formed federal government a bundle of powers that encompassed
“all that is required for the regulation of [the
Nation’s] intercourse with the Indians.”
Worcester, 6 Pet., at 559. By contrast, the Constitution
came with no indication that States had any similar sort of power.
Indeed, it omitted the nettlesome language in the Articles about
the “legislative right” of States. Not only that. The
Constitution’s express exclusion of “Indians not
taxed” from the apportionment formula, Art. I, §2,
cl. 3, threw cold water on some States’ attempts to
claim that Tribes fell within their territory—and therefore
their control. And, lest any doubt remain, the Constitution
divested States of any power to “enter into any Treaty,
Alliance, or Confederation.” §10, cl. 1. By
removing that diplomatic power, the Constitution’s design
also divested them of the leading tool for managing tribal
relations at that time.

															The Constitution’s departure from the
Articles’ articulation was praised by many and criticized by
some. Federalists (such as James Madison) applauded the fact that
the new federal government would be “unfettered” by the
Articles’ constraints. The Federalist No. 42, p. 268 (C.
Rossiter ed. 1961). Certain Anti-Federalists (including Abraham
Yates Jr.) disfavored the “tota[l] surrender into the
hands of Congress [of] the management and regulation of the Indian
affairs.” Letter to Citizens of New York (June 13–14,
1788), in 20 Documentary History of the Ratification of the
Constitution 1153, 1158 (J. Kaminski et al. eds. 2004)
(emphasis added). At bottom, however, no one questioned that the
Constitution took a view about where the power to manage Indian
affairs would reside in the future. And no one doubted that it
selected the federal government, not the States.

															Early practice confirmed this understanding.
“The Washington Administration insisted that the federal
government enjoyed exclusive constitutional authority” over
managing relationships with the Indian Tribes. Ablavsky 2015, at
1019. As President Washington put it, the federal government
“possess[ed] the only authority of regulating an
intercourse with [the Tribes], and redressing their
grievances.” Letter to T. Mifflin (Sept. 4, 1790), in 6 The
Papers of George Washington: Presidential Series 396 (D. Twohig ed.
1996) (emphasis added). Even “many state officials
agreed” with President Washington’s assessment.
Ablavsky 2015, at 1019. South Carolina Governor Charles Pinckney
acknowledged that “the sole management of India[n]
affairs” is “committed” to “the general
Government.” Letter to G. Washington (Dec. 14, 1789), in 4
Papers of George Washington: Presidential Series 404 (D. Twohig ed.
1996). Other leading proponents of States’ rights reluctantly
drew the same conclusion. “[U]nder the present
Constitution,” Thomas Jefferson lamented, States lack any
“right to Treat with the Indians without the consent of the
General Government.” Letter to H. Knox (Aug. 10, 1791), in 22
Papers of Thomas Jefferson 27 (C. Cullen ed. 1986).

															For its part, this Court understood the absence
of state authority over tribal matters as a natural corollary of
Tribes’ inherent sovereignty. Precisely because Tribes exist
as a “distinct community,” this Court concluded in
Worcester, the “laws of [States] can have no
force” as to them. 6 Pet., at 561. States could no more
prescribe rules for Tribes than they could legislate for one
another or a foreign sovereign. More than that, this Court
recognized that “[t]he whole intercourse between the
United States and [each Tribe], is by our [C]onstitution and laws,
vested in the government of the United States.” Ibid.
(emphasis added). State laws cannot “interfere forcibly with
the relations established between the United States and [an Indian
Tribe], the regulation of which, according to the settled
principles of our [C]onstitution, are committed exclusively
to the government of the [U]nion.” Ibid. (emphasis
added). That principle, too, has endured. No one can contest the
“ ‘historic immunity from state and local
control’ ” that the Tribes enjoy, nor the
permissibility of constitutional provisions enacted to protect the
Tribes’ “sovereign status.” New Mexico v.
Mescalero Apache Tribe, 462 U.S.
324, 332 (1983). Tuck that point away too.

															C

															We now know that, at the founding, the Tribes
retained their sovereignty. We know also that States have virtually
no role to play in managing interactions with Tribes. From this, it
follows that “[t]he only restriction on the power” of
Tribes “in respect to [their] internal affairs” arises
when their actions “conflict with the Constitution or laws of
the United States.” Roff v. Burney, 168 U.S.
218, 222 (1897). In cases like that, the Constitution provides,
federal law must prevail. See Art. VI. This creates a
hydraulic relationship between federal and tribal authority. The
more the former expands, the more the latter shrinks. All of which
raises the question: What powers does the federal government
possess with respect to Tribes?

															1

															Because the federal government enjoys only
“limited” and “enumerated powers,” we look
to the Constitution’s text. McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405 (1819). Notably, our founding
document does not include a plenary federal authority over Tribes.
Nor was this an accident, at least not in the final accounting. The
framers considered a general Indian Affairs Clause but left it on
the cutting-room floor. See L. Toler, The Missing Indian Affairs
Clause, 88 U. Chi. L. Rev. 413, 444–476 (2021) (Toler).
That choice reflects an important insight about the
Constitution’s Indian-law bargain: “Without an Indian
affairs power,” any assertion of unbounded federal authority
over the Tribes is “constitutionally wanting.”
Id., at 476.

															Instead of a free-floating Indian-affairs power,
the framers opted for a bundle of federal authorities tailored to
“the regulation of [the Nation’s] intercourse with the
Indians.” Worcester, 6 Pet., at 559. In keeping with
the framers’ faith in the separation of powers, they chose to
split those authorities “between the [E]xecutive and the
[L]egislature.” Toler 479. “The residue of Indian
affairs power”—all those Indian-related powers not
expressly doled out by the Constitution—remained the province
of “the sovereign [T]ribes.” Id., at 481.

															What was included in the federal
government’s bundle of enumerated powers? In the early years,
the most important component was the authority to “make
Treaties” with the Tribes. Art. II, §2, cl. 2.
But other provisions also facilitated the management of Indian
relations. The Constitution vested in Congress the power to
“declare War” against the Tribes. Art. I., §8,
cl. 11. It gave Congress authority to “dispose of and
make all needful Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or
other Property belonging to the United States,” allowing it
considerable power over Indians on federal territory. Art. IV,
§3, cl. 2. The Constitution also authorized Congress to employ
its spending power to divert funds toward Tribes. Art. I, §8,
cl. 1. Where all those powers came up short, the Constitution
afforded the federal government the power to “regulate
Commerce with foreign Nations and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes.” §8, cl. 3 (emphasis
added). Much of modern federal Indian law rests on that commerce
power. It demands a closer look.

															2

															Contained in a single sentence, what we
sometimes call “the” Commerce Clause is really three
distinct Clauses rolled into one: a Foreign Commerce Clause, an
Interstate Commerce Clause, and an Indian Commerce Clause. To be
sure, those Clauses share the same lead word:
“Commerce.” And, viewed in isolation, that word might
appear to sweep narrowly—encompassing activities like
“selling, buying, and bartering, as well as transporting for
these purposes.” United States v. Lopez,
514 U.S.
549, 585–586 (1995) (Thomas, J., concurring) (citing
founding-era definitions). But it is “well established”
that the individual Commerce Clauses have “very different
applications,” Cotton Petroleum Corp. v. New
Mexico, 490 U.S.
163, 192 (1989), a point the framers themselves acknowledged,
see, e.g., Letter from E. Randolph to G. Washington (Feb.
12, 1791), in 7 Papers of George Washington: Presidential Series
330, 331–337 (D. Twohig 1998).

															Start with the word “Commerce.” From
the Nation’s earliest days, Indian commerce was considered
“a special subject with a definite content,” quite
“distinct and specialized” from other sorts of
“commerce.” A. Abel, The Commerce Clause in the
Constitutional Convention and in Contemporary Comment, 25 Minn.
L. Rev. 432, 467–468 (1941). A survey of founding-era
usage confirms that the term “Commerce,” when
describing relations with Indians, took on a broader meaning than
simple economic exchange. See Ablavsky 2015, at 1012–1032
(compiling primary sources); Brief for Gregory Ablavsky as
Amicus Curiae 8–11; App. to id., at 1–18
(same); see also A. Amar, America’s Constitution: A Biography
107 (2005). Instead, the word was used as a “term of
art,” Pearl 322, to encompass all manner of “bilateral
relations with the [T]ribes,” Clinton 1995, at 1145; see also
Toler 422 (noting that “Indian commerce” was a
“legal ter[m] of art” that was “informed by the
practicalities of Indian affairs”).

															This special usage likely emerged out of an
international-law idea widely shared “at the time of the
founding”: When dealing with a foreign sovereign, the
“commercial and noncommercial aspects” of bilateral
interactions were “inevitably intertwined” because
any intercourse carried potential diplomatic consequences
and could even lead to war. J. Balkin, Commerce, 109 Mich.
L. Rev. 1, 25 (2010) (Balkin); see also Ablavsky 2015, at
1028–1032 (demonstrating that “trade with the Indians
was understood almost solely through this political and diplomatic
lens”); Clinton 1989, at 362–363 (observing that, at
the founding, Indian “trade” was
“intertwined” with concerns of “peace and
diplomacy” and with the threat of “war”). Nor was
that a speculative possibility when it came to Tribes. As we have
seen, even the noncommercial conduct of settlers in the early years
was a “continual source of violent conflict [with]
Indians,” partially motivating the move away from the
Articles of Confederation framework. M. Fletcher & L. Jurss,
Tribal Jurisdiction—A Historical Bargain, 76 Md. L. Rev.
593, 597 (2017); see also Ablavsky 2014, at 1033–1038.

															At least two terms in the Commerce Clause
confirm this special usage. For one thing, the Constitution speaks
of “Commerce . . . among” when
discussing interstate dealings, but “Commerce
with” when addressing dealings with tribal and foreign
sovereigns. Art. I, §8, cl. 3 (emphases added). This
language suggests a shared framework for Congress’s Indian
and foreign commerce powers and a different one for its interstate
commerce authority. See R. Monette, A New Federalism for Indian
Tribes: The Relationship Between the United States and Tribes in
Light of Our Federalism and Republican Democracy, 25 U. Toledo
L. Rev. 617, 629, n. 82 (1994). More than that, the term
“with” suggests that Congress has the authority to
manage “all interactions or affairs . . . with the
Indian [T]ribes” and foreign sovereigns—wherever those
interactions or affairs may occur. Balkin 23. By contrast, the term
“among” found in the Interstate Commerce Clause most
naturally suggests that Congress may regulate only activities that
“extend in their operation beyond the bounds of a
particular [S]tate” and into another. Id., at 30. All
this goes a long way toward explaining why “Congress’s
powers to regulate domestic commerce are more constrained”
than its powers to regulate Indian and foreign commerce.
Id., at 29.

															For another thing, as nouns,
“States” and “Indian Tribes” are not
alike—and they were not alike at the founding.
“States” generally referred then, as it does today, to
a collection of territorial entities. Not so
“Tribes.” That term necessarily referred to collections
of individuals. See C. Green, Tribes, Nations, States: Our
Three Commerce Powers, 127 Pa. St. L. Rev. 643, 649,
654–669 (2023) (Green); see also 1 W. Crosskey, Politics and
the Constitution in the History of the United States 77 (1953).
Want proof? Dust off most any founding-era dictionary and look up
the definition of “Tribe.” See, e.g., 2 J. Ash,
The New and Complete Dictionary of the English Language (1775)
(“[a] family, a body of the people distinguished by family or
fortune”); 2 S. Johnson, A Dictionary of the English Language
(4th ed. 1773) (“[a] di[s]tinct body of the people as divided
by family or fortune, or any other characteri[s]tick”); T.
Dyche, A New General English Dictionary (14th ed. 1771) (“the
particular descendants or people [s]prung from [s]ome noted head,
or a collective number of people in a colony”); N. Bailey, An
Universal Etymological English Dictionary (22d ed. 1770) (“a
[c]ompany of [p]eople dwelling together in the [s]ame [w]ard or
[l]iberty”).

															This observation sheds light on why ordinary
speakers use the two terms differently. It explains, for instance,
why it is grammatical to say you are vacationing “in
Colorado,” but not to say you are vacationing
“in Navajo.” It explains why it is sensible to
say you are meeting “with some Cherokee,” but
not to say you are meeting “with some New
Jersey.” But this point also helps us make sense of why the
Legislative Branch may regulate commerce with Indian Tribes
differently than it may regulate commerce among the States. Because
Tribes are collections of people, the Indian Commerce Clause
endows Congress with the “authority to regulate commerce with
Native Americans” as individuals. McGirt v.
Oklahoma, 591 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 7).
By contrast, Congress’s power under the Interstate Commerce
Clause operates only on commerce that involves “more States
than one.” Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 194
(1824). In other words, commerce that takes place
“among” (or between) two or more territorial
units, and not just any commerce that involves some member
of some State. See Green 649–654.

															This Court has long appreciated these points of
distinction. For example, in United States v.
Holliday, 3 Wall. 407 (1866), the Court upheld a federal
statute that prohibited the sale of alcohol by non-Indians to
Indians—on or off tribal land. Id., at 416–417.
Giving the Indian Commerce Clause its most natural reading, the
Court concluded that the power to regulate commerce with Indian
Tribes must mean the power to regulate “commerce with the
individuals composing those [T]ribes.” Id., at 417
(emphasis added). For that reason, too, “[t]he locality of
the [commerce could] have nothing to do with the [scope of the]
power.” Id., at 418; see also Henderson v.
Mayor of New York, 92 U.S.
259, 270 (1876) (quoting Holliday and echoing this point
in the context of the Foreign Commerce Clause). More than that,
Holliday recognized that this focus on individuals means
that Indian commerce must cover “something more” than
just economic exchange. 3 Wall., at 417 (internal quotation marks
omitted). While it includes “buying and selling and
exchanging commodities,” it also extends to the entire
“intercourse between the citizens of the United States and
those [T]ribes.” Ibid. That “intercourse,”
the Court recognized, is “another branch of commerce”
with Indians, “and a very important one” at that.
Ibid.

															If the Constitution’s text left any
uncertainty about the scope of Congress’s Indian commerce
power, early practice liquidated it. The First Congress adopted the
initial Indian Trade and Intercourse Act, which prohibited the
“sale of lands made by any Indians” to non-Indians
absent a public treaty. Act of July 22, 1790, ch. 33, §4,
1Stat. 138. The law also extended criminal liability to non-Indians
who “commit[ted] any crime upon, or trespass against, the
person or property of any peaceable and friendly Indian” in
Indian country. §5, ibid. The first of these provisions
arguably addressed a narrow question of commerce. But the second
“plainly regulated noneconomic” interaction. A. Amar,
America’s Constitution and the Yale School of
Constitutional Interpretation, 115 Yale L. J. 1997, 2004,
n. 25 (2006).

															Despite that fact, the Act (and its successors)
were “not controversial exercises of congressional
power.” N. Newton, Federal Power Over Indians: Its Sources,
Scope, and Limitations, 132 U. Pa. L. Rev. 195, 201,
n. 25 (1984). Any doubt about their validity “would have
been quieted by the [C]ommerce Clause’s commitment of
commerce with the Indian [T]ribes to Congress.” Ibid.
As Justice McLean (riding circuit) recognized, punishing
non-Indians for “committing violence upon the persons or
property of the Indians,” fell “clearly within the
scope of the power to regulate commerce with the Indian
[T]ribes.” United States v. Bailey, 424 F. Cas.
937, 939 (No. 14,495) (CC Tenn. 1834). Of course, the kinds of
criminal trespasses Congress regulated as early as 1790 were not
themselves commercial. But a trespass against even one
individual Indian could disrupt commerce with that individual. See
Green 660–661, and n. 76. By extension, such a trespass
could disrupt dealings with other members of the Tribe and with
other allied Tribes too. See Balkin 24–26. Recognizing this,
the framers entrusted Congress with the power previously exercised
by the British Parliament to “restrain the disorderly and
licentious from intrusions” by non-Indians against even
individual Indians—all to preserve functioning channels of
trade and intercourse “with the Indians.”
Worcester, 6 Pet., at 552, 556.

															3

															If Congress’s powers under the Indian
Commerce Clause are broader than those it enjoys under the
Interstate Commerce Clause, “broader” does not mean
“plenary.” Even the federal government’s
“power to control and manage” relations with the Tribes
under the Indian Commerce Clause comes with “pertinent
constitutional restrictions.” United States v.
Creek Nation, 295 U.S.
103, 110 (1935). Congress cannot, for example, expand the scope
of its own power by arbitrarily labeling non-Indians as Indians.
See United States v. Sandoval, 231 U.S.
28, 46 (1913). Nor can it regulate in peripherally related
fields merely by identifying some incidental connection to
non-Indians’ dealings with Indians. Instead, Congress’s
actions must still bear a valid “nexus” to Indian
commerce to withstand constitutional challenge. Lopez, 514
U. S., at 562 (quoting United States v. Bass,
404 U.S.
336, 347 (1971)). As we have seen, too, “the scope of
congressional authority” over the Tribes under the Indian
Commerce Clause is “best construed as a negative one.”
Pearl 325. Its text “limits the legislative reach to creating
federal restrictions concerning what United States citizens and
States may do in the context of Indian [T]ribes.”
Ibid. Nothing in the Clause grants Congress the affirmative
power to reassign to the federal government inherent sovereign
authorities that belong to the Tribes.

															In that way, the Indian Commerce Clause
confirms, rather than abridges, principles of tribal sovereignty.
As it must. It is “inconceivable” that a power to
regulate non-Indians’ dealings with Indians could be used to
“dives[t Tribes] of the right of self-government.”
Worcester, 6 Pet., at 554. Otherwise, a power to manage
relations with a party would become an instrument for
“annihilating the political existence of one of the
parties.” Ibid. No one in the Nation’s formative
years thought that could be the law. They understood that Congress
could no more use its commerce powers to legislate away a Tribe
than it could a State or a foreign sovereign. Cf. National
League of Cities v. Usery, 426 U.S.
833, 855 (1976); Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell,
269 U.S.
514, 523–526 (1926); Lane County v. Oregon,
7 Wall. 71, 76–77 (1869). The framers appreciated, too, that
they possessed no more “authority to delegate to the national
government power to regulate the [T]ribes directly” than they
possessed authority to “delegate power to the federal
government over other peoples who were not part of the federal
union.” Clinton 2002, at 254; see also R. Barsh, Book Review,
Felix S. Cohen’s Handbook of Federal Indian Law, 1982 Ed., 57
Wash. L. Rev. 799, 803 (1982).

															D

															As we have now seen, the Constitution
reflected a carefully considered balance between tribal, state, and
federal powers. That scheme predated the founding and it persisted
long after. It is not, however, the balance this Court always
maintained in the years since. More than a little fault for that
fact lies with a doctrinal misstep. In the late 19th century, this
Court misplaced the original meaning of the Indian Commerce Clause.
That error sent this Court’s Indian-law jurisprudence into a
tailspin from which it has only recently begun to recover.
Understanding that error—and the steps this Court has taken
to correct it—are the last missing pieces of the puzzle.

															In 1885, during the period of assimilationist
federal policy, Congress enacted the Indian Major Crimes Act,
§9, 23Stat. 385. Among other things, that law extended
federal-court jurisdiction over various crimes committed by Indians
against Indians on tribal lands. Ibid. In United
States v. Kagama, 118 U.S.
375 (1886), this Court upheld the constitutionality of that
Act. In the process, though, it stepped off the doctrinal trail.
Instead of examining the text and history of the Indian Commerce
Clause, the Court offered a free-floating and purposivist account
of the Constitution, describing it as extending broad “power
[to] the General Government” over tribal affairs. Id.,
at 384. Building on that move, the Court would later come to
describe the federal power over the Tribes as
“plenary.” See, e.g., Winton v.
Amos, 255 U.S.
373, 391 (1921); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock,
187 U.S.
553, 565 (1903).

															Perhaps the Court meant well. Surely many of its
so-called “plenary power” cases reached results
explainable under a proper reading of the Constitution’s
enumerated powers. Maybe the turn of phrase even made some sense:
Congress’s power with regard to the Tribes is
“plenary” in that it leaves no room for State
involvement. See Ablavsky 2015, at 1014 (“[T]he Court use[d]
the term [plenary] interchangeably with
‘exclusive’ ”). But as sometimes happens
when this Court elides text and original meaning in favor of broad
pronouncements about the Constitution’s purposes, the
plenary-power idea baked in the prejudices of the day. Cf.
Plessy v. Ferguson, 163 U.S.
537 (1896). The Court suggested that the federal
government’s total power over the Tribes derived from its
supposedly inherent right to “enforce its laws” over
“th[e] remnants of a race once powerful, now weak.”
Kagama, 118 U. S., at 384–385. Of course, nothing
of the sort follows from “a reasoned analysis derived from
the text [or] history . . . of the United States
Constitution.” Clinton 2002, at 163. Instead, the
plenary-power idea “constituted an unprincipled assertion of
raw federal authority.” Ibid. It rested on nothing
more than judicial claims about putative constitutional purposes
that aligned with contemporary policy preferences.

															Nor was anachronistic language the only
consequence of this Court’s abandonment of the
Constitution’s original meaning. During what has been called
the “high plenary power era of U. S. Indian law,”
this Court sometimes took the word “plenary” pretty
literally. S. Cleveland, Powers Inherent in Sovereignty: Indians,
Aliens, Territories, and the Nineteenth Century Origins of Plenary
Power Over Foreign Affairs, 81 Texas L. Rev. 1, 62 (2002)
(Cleveland). It assumed that Congress possesses a “virtually
unlimited authority to regulate [T]ribes” in every respect.
M. Steele, Plenary Power, Political Questions, and Sovereignty in
Indian Affairs, 63 UCLA L. Rev. 666, 670 (2016); see Cleveland
62–74. Perhaps most notably, the Court even suggested that
Congress’s “plenary authority” might allow it to
“limit, modify, or eliminate the powers of local
self-government which the [T]ribes otherwise possess.”
Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, 436 U.S.
49, 56–57 (1978). It is an “inconceivable”
suggestion for anyone who takes the Constitution’s original
meaning seriously. Worcester, 6 Pet., at 554.

															The Court’s atextual and ahistorical
plenary-power move did not just serve to expand the scope of
federal power over the Tribes. It also had predictable downstream
effects on the relationship between States and Tribes. As Congress
assumed new power to intrude on tribal sovereignty, the
Constitution’s “concomitant jurisdictional limit on the
reach of state law” began to wane. McClanahan, 411
U. S., at 171. It is not hard to draw a through-line between
these developments. This Court itself has acknowledged that its
plenary-power cases embodied a “trend . . . away
from the idea of inherent Indian sovereignty as a bar to state
jurisdiction.” Id., at 172, and n. 7.

															It is no coincidence either that this
Court’s plenary-power jurisprudence emerged in the same era
as Indian boarding schools and other assimilationist policies. See
D. Moore & M. Steele, Revitalizing Tribal Sovereignty in
Treatymaking, 97 N. Y. U. L. Rev. 137, 142 (2022).
Rather, “[f]ederal bureaucratic control over Indian
leadership and governments ran parallel to the government’s
control over Indian children” during this period. Fletcher
& Singel 930. Indian boarding schools and other intrusive
“federal educational programs . . . could not have
been implemented without federal control of reservation
governance.” Ibid. Nor could any of these federal
intrusions on internal tribal affairs have been possible without
this Court’s plenary-power misadventure.

															I do not mean to overstate the point. Even in
the heyday of the plenary-power theory, this Court never doubted
that Tribes retain a variety of self-government powers. It has
always acknowledged that Tribes are “a separate people, with
the power of regulating their internal and social relations.”
Kagama, 118 U. S., at 381–382. They may
“make their own substantive law in internal matters.”
Martinez, 436 U. S., at 55. They may define their own
membership. Roff, 168 U. S., at 222. They may set
probate rules of their choice. Jones v. Meehan,
175 U.S.
1, 29 (1899). And—especially relevant here—they may
handle their own family-law matters, Fisher v. District
Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., 424 U.S.
382, 387 (1976) (per curiam), and domestic disputes,
United States v. Quiver, 241
U.S. 602, 605 (1916). But for a period at least, this Court let
itself drift from the “basic policy of
Worcester,” and with it the
Constitution’s promise of tribal sovereignty. Williams
v. Lee, 358 U.S.
217, 219 (1959).

															Doubtless, too, the rise of the plenary-power
theory injected incoherence into our Indian-law jurisprudence. Many
scholars have commented on it. See, e.g., P. Frickey,
Doctrine, Context, Institutional Relationships, and Commentary: The
Malaise of Federal Indian Law Through the Lens of Lone Wolf,
38 Tulsa L. Rev. 5, 9 (2002) (describing our doctrine as
“riddled with . . . inconsistency”); F.
Pommersheim, A Path Near the Clearing: An Essay on Constitutional
Adjudication in Tribal Courts, 27 Gonz. L. Rev. 393, 403
(1991) (calling our doctrine “bifurcated, if not fully
schizophrenic”). So have Members of this Court. Justice
Thomas has put the problem well: “[M]uch of the confusion
reflected in our precedent arises from two largely
incompatible” assumptions: That Congress “can regulate
virtually every aspect of the [T]ribes”; and that
“Indian [T]ribes retain inherent sovereignty.”
Lara, 541 U. S., at 214–215 (opinion concurring
in judgment). Those two propositions of course clash. That is
because only one is true. Yes, Tribes retain the inherent
sovereignty the Constitution left for them. But no, Congress does
not possess power to “calibrate ‘the metes and bounds
of tribal sovereignty.’ ” Ibid.

															In recent years, this Court has begun to correct
its mistake. Increasingly, it has emphasized original meaning in
constitutional interpretation. See, e.g., Kennedy v.
Bremerton School Dist., 597 U. S. ___, ___–___
(2022) (slip op., at 23–24); Ramos v.
Louisiana, 590 U. S. ___, ___, ___–___ (2020)
(slip op., at 6, 11–17). In the process, it has come again to
recognize the Indian Commerce Clause provides the federal
government only so much “power to deal with the Indian
Tribes.” Mancari, 417 U. S., at 551–552.
But to date, these corrective steps have not yielded all they
should. While this Court has stopped overreading its own
plenary-power precedents, it has yet to recover fully the original
meaning of the Indian Commerce Clause.

															Today, the Court takes further steps in the
right direction. It recognizes that Congress’s powers with
respect to the Tribes “derive from the Constitution, not the
atmosphere.” Ante, at 11. It engages in a robust
history-driven analysis of the various fonts of congressional
authority without relying only on platitudes about plenary power.
Ante, at 11–13. It notes that, as an original matter,
the Indian Commerce Clause is “broad” and covers more
than garden-variety commercial activity. Ante, at
11–16. In the process, it reaffirms that
“ ‘commerce with the Indian
[T]ribes’ ” necessarily covers commerce with
“Indians as individuals.” Ante, at
15–16.

															No less importantly, the Court acknowledges what
the federal government cannot do. “Article I gives
Congress a series of enumerated powers, not a series of blank
checks.” Ante, at 13. And that means that
“Congress’s authority to legislate with respect to
Indians is not unbounded,” but instead comes with concrete
limitations. Ibid. To resolve the present dispute, the Court
understandably sees no need to demarcate those limitations further.
But I hope that, in time, it will follow the implications of
today’s decision where they lead and return us to the
original bargain struck in the Constitution—and, with it, the
respect for Indian sovereignty it entails.

															III

															With all the historical pieces of this puzzle
assembled, only one task remains. You must decide for yourself if
ICWA passes constitutional muster.

															By now, the full picture has come into view and
it is easy to see why ICWA must stand. Under our Constitution,
Tribes remain independent sovereigns responsible for governing
their own affairs. And as this Court has long recognized, domestic
law arrangements fall within Tribes’ traditional powers of
self-governance. See, e.g., Fisher, 424 U. S.,
at 387; Quiver, 241 U. S., at 605. As
“ ‘a separate people’ ” Tribes
may “ ‘regulat[e] their internal and social
relations’ ” as they wish. Wheeler, 435
U. S., at 322 (quoting Kagama, 118 U. S., at
381–382). In enacting ICWA, Congress affirmed this
understanding. It recognized that “there is no resource that
is more vital to the continued existence and integrity of Indian
[T]ribes than their children.” 25 U. S. C.
§1901(3). Yet it also recognized that the mass-removal of
Indian children by States and other outsiders threatened the
“continued existence and integrity of Indian [T]ribes.”
Ibid.; see also §1901(4). By setting out to eliminate
that practice, Congress sought to preserve the Indian-law bargain
written into the Constitution’s text by securing the
continued viability of the “third sovereign.” S.
O’Connor, Remark, Lessons From the Third Sovereign: Indian
Tribal Courts, 33 Tulsa L. J. 1 (1997).

															No doubt, ICWA sharply limits the ability of
States to impose their own family-law policies on tribal members.
But as we have seen, state intrusions on tribal authority have been
a recurring theme throughout American history. See Ablavsky 2014,
at 1009–1037. Long ago, those intrusions led the framers to
abandon the loophole-ridden Indian affairs provision in the
Articles of Confederation and adopt in the Constitution a different
arrangement that commits the management of tribal relations
solely to the federal government. Id., at
1038–1051; see also Clinton 1995, at 1098–1165.
Recognizing as much, this Court has consistently reaffirmed the
Tribes’ “immunity from state and local control.”
Arizona v. San Carlos Apache Tribe of Ariz.,
463 U.S.
545, 571 (1983) (internal quotation marks omitted). If that
immunity means anything, it must mean that States and others cannot
use their own laws to displace federal Indian policy.

															Nor is there any serious question that Congress
has the power under the Indian Commerce Clause to enact protections
against the removal of Indian children. Thankfully, Indian children
are not (these days) units of commerce. Cf. Fletcher & Singel
897–898 (describing an early practice of enslaving Indian
children). But at its core, ICWA restricts how non-Indians (States
and private individuals) may engage with Indians. And, as we have
seen, that falls in the heartland of Congress’s
constitutional authority. Recall that the very first Congresses
punished non-Indians who “commit[ted] any crime upon [any]
friendly Indian.” Act of July 22, 1790, ch. 33, §5,
1Stat. 138. ICWA operates in much the same way. The mass removal of
Indian children by States and private parties, no less than a
pattern of criminal trespasses by States and private parties,
directly interferes with tribal intercourse. More than that, it
threatens the Tribes’ “political existence.”
Worcester, 6 Pet., at 536. And at the risk of stating the
obvious, Indian commerce is hard to maintain if there are no Indian
communities left to do commerce with.

															IV

															Often, Native American Tribes have come to
this Court seeking justice only to leave with bowed heads and empty
hands. But that is not because this Court has no justice to offer
them. Our Constitution reserves for the Tribes a place—an
enduring place—in the structure of American life. It promises
them sovereignty for as long as they wish to keep it. And it
secures that promise by divesting States of authority over Indian
affairs and by giving the federal government certain significant
(but limited and enumerated) powers aimed at building a lasting
peace. In adopting the Indian Child Welfare Act, Congress exercised
that lawful authority to secure the right of Indian parents to
raise their families as they please; the right of Indian children
to grow in their culture; and the right of Indian communities to
resist fading into the twilight of history. All of that is in
keeping with the Constitution’s original design.

													
