::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-376
::decision_name::  Haaland v. Brackeen
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 21–376, 21–377,
21–378 and 21–380

															_________________

															DEB HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,
et al., PETITIONERS

															21–376v.

															CHAD EVERET BRACKEEN, et al.

															

															CHEROKEE NATION, et al.,
PETITIONERS

															21–377v.

															CHAD EVERET BRACKEEN, et al.

															

															TEXAS, PETITIONER

															21–378v.

															DEB HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,
et al.

															

															CHAD EVERET BRACKEEN, et al.,
PETITIONERS

															21–380v.

															DEB HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,
et al.

															

															on writs of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 15, 2023]

															

															Justice Thomas, dissenting.

															These cases concern the Federal
Government’s attempt to regulate child-welfare proceedings in
state courts. That should raise alarm bells. Our Federal
“[G]overnment is acknowledged by all to be one of enumerated
powers,” having only those powers that the Constitution
confers expressly or by necessary implication. McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405 (1819). All other powers (like
family or criminal law) generally remain with the States. The
Federal Government thus lacks a general police power to regulate
state family law.

															However, in the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA),
Congress ignored the normal limits on the Federal
Government’s power and prescribed rules to regulate state
child custody proceedings in one circumstance: when the child
involved happens to be an Indian. As the majority acknowledges,
ICWA often overrides state family law by dictating that state
courts place Indian children with Indian caretakers even if doing
so is not in the child’s best interest. See ante, at
2. It imposes heightened standards before removing Indian children
from unsafe environments. See ante, at 3–4. And it
allows tribes to unilaterally enroll Indian children and then
intervene in their custody proceedings. See ante, at 4,
6–8.

															In the normal course, we would say that the
Federal Government has no authority to enact any of this. Yet the
majority declines to hold that ICWA is unconstitutional, reasoning
that the petitioners before us have not borne their burden of
showing how Congress exceeded its powers. This gets things
backwards. When Congress has so clearly intruded upon a
longstanding domain of exclusive state powers, we must ask not
whether a constitutional provision prohibits that intrusion, but
whether a constitutional provision authorizes it.

															The majority and respondents gesture to a
smorgasbord of constitutional hooks to support ICWA; not one of
them works. First, the Indian Commerce Clause is about commerce,
not children. See Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl,
570 U.S.
637, 659–665 (2013) (Thomas, J., concurring). Second, the
Treaty Clause does no work because ICWA is not based on any treaty.
Third, the foreign-affairs powers (what the majority terms
“structural principles”) inherent in the Federal
Government have no application to regulating the domestic child
custody proceedings of U. S. citizens living within the
jurisdiction of States.

															I would go no further. But, as the majority
notes, the Court’s precedents have repeatedly referred to a
“plenary power” that Congress possesses over Indian
affairs, as well as a general “trust” relationship with
the Indians. I have searched in vain for any constitutional basis
for such a plenary power, which appears to have been born of loose
language and judicial ipse dixit. And, even taking the
Court’s precedents as given, there is no reason to extend
this “plenary power” to the situation before us today:
regulating state-court child custody proceedings of U. S.
citizens, who may never have even set foot on Indian lands, merely
because the child involved happens to be an Indian.

															I

															State courts usually apply state law when
resolving child custody issues. This would normally be true for
most Indians, too. Today, Indians are citizens of the United
States; the vast majority of them do not live on any reservation or
Indian lands, but live (as most citizens) on lands that are wholly
within a State’s jurisdiction. See ch. 233, 43Stat. 253;
Dept. of Health and Human Services, Office of Minority Health,
Profile: American Indian/Alaska Native (Feb. 24, 2023),
https://minorityhealth.hhs.gov/omh/browse .aspx?lvl=3&lvlid=62
(87% live off Indian lands). Thus, one might expect that when a
child custody issue regarding an Indian child arises in a state
court, that court would apply the same laws that it would for any
other citizen.

															But ICWA displaces the normal state laws
governing child custody when it comes to only one group of
citizens: Indian children. ICWA defines “Indian child”
capaciously: It includes not only children who are members of an
Indian tribe, but also those children who are merely
eligible for membership in a tribe and are the biological
child of a tribal member. See 25 U. S. C. §1903(4).
If the child resides on Indian tribal lands, then the Indian tribal
court has jurisdiction. §1911(a). But, if the child resides
within a State, ICWA requires state courts to transfer any
proceedings to a tribal court, absent “good cause to the
contrary,” upon petition by the child’s parent,
custodian, or tribe. §1911(b).

															Even when the state court retains the
proceedings, ICWA replaces state law with a strict set of federal
rules. For example, if the State fears that a child is suffering
physical or sexual abuse, it must clear a set of hurdles before
placing the child in foster care or terminating the parent’s
rights. §§1912(a)–(e). If the parent wishes to
voluntarily relinquish his or her rights and facilitate an
adoption, the child’s tribe has a right to intervene
“at any point” and to collaterally attack the
court’s decree. §§1911(c), 1914. Moreover, it
appears that tribes can enroll children unilaterally, without the
parent’s consent. Accordingly, even if the biological
parents, the child, the adoptive parents, and the court all agree
on what is best for the child, the tribe can intervene at the
eleventh hour, without any consent from the parents or child, and
block the proceedings. In fact, that is exactly what happened
here—the children were unilaterally designated as tribal
members by tribes, which then sought to block adoptions that
everyone else thought were best for the children involved. And,
even though some of those adoptions have now been finalized, it
appears that the tribes can collaterally attack them for an
indefinite period of time. §1914.

															Besides these procedural hurdles, ICWA dictates
the preferences a court must adhere to when deciding where to place
the child. In the typical case, the primary consideration would be
the best interests of that child. E.g., Tex. Fam. Code Ann.
§153.002 (West 2014); American Law Institute, Principles of
the Law of Family Dissolution §2.02 (2002);
Friederwitzer v. Friederwitzer, 55 N.Y.2d 89, 92, 432
N.E.2d 765, 767 (1982); Karner v. McMahon, 433 Pa.
Super. 290, 302, 
640 A.2d 926, 932 (1994). That makes sense; as the majority
notes, these children are some of the most vulnerable among us, and
their interests should be a court’s primary concern. See
ante, at 1. But ICWA displaces that standard with its own
hierarchy of preferences, requiring a court to prefer any
placements with (1) a member of the child’s extended family;
(2) other members of the child’s tribe; and (3) other Indian
families of any tribe, anywhere in the country. §1915(a).
Similar rules govern foster-care placements. §1915(b). As the
majority notes, these preferences collectively ensure that any
Indian from any tribe in the country outranks all non-Indians for
adopting and fostering those whom ICWA deems to be Indian children.
See ante, at 5.

															Again, these detailed rules govern the child
custody proceedings of U. S. citizens in state courts only because
the child is also either a member of an Indian tribe or merely
eligible for membership in a tribe. (The child or parents need
never have set foot on Indian lands or have any desire to affiliate
themselves with a tribe.[1])
The child and his or her biological parents and relatives can all
support an adoption, yet ICWA may stand in the way.

															Normally, we would say that the Federal
Government plainly lacks the authority to enact a law like this.
The only question is thus whether Congress has some additional
authority that allows it to regulate the adoption process for
U. S. citizens in state courts merely because the child
involved happens to be an Indian. To answer that question, I turn
first to the text and original meaning of the Constitution.

															II

															To explain the original understanding of the
Constitution’s enumerated powers with regard to Indians, I
start with our Nation’s Founding-era dealings with Indian
tribes. Those early interactions underscore that the Constitution
conferred specific, enumerated powers on the Federal Government
which aimed at specific problems that the Nation faced under the
Articles of Confederation. The new Federal Government’s
actions with respect to Indian tribes are easily explained by those
enumerated powers. Meanwhile, the States continued to enjoy
substantial authority with regard to tribes. At each turn, history
and constitutional text thus point to a set of enumerated powers
that can be applied to Indian tribes—not some sort of
amorphous, unlimited power than can be applied to displace all
state laws when it comes to Indians.

															A

															Before the Revolution, most of the Thirteen
Colonies adopted their own regulations governing Indian trade. See
Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at 660 (Thomas, J.,
concurring); R. Natelson, The Original Understanding of the Indian
Commerce Clause, 85 Denver U. L. Rev. 201, 219, and
n. 121 (2007) (Natelson) (collecting laws). These regulations
were necessary because colonial traders abused their Indian trading
partners, often provoking violent Indian retaliation. See
Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at 660–661; 1 F.
Prucha, The Great Father 18–21 (1984) (Prucha). Most colonial
governments thus imposed licensing systems of some form both to
protect Indians and to maintain trading relationships with them.
See id., at 19. However, the colonial laws were not uniform,
leading to rivalries between the Colonies, corruption, fraud, and
other abuses by traders. Id., at 21. Then, once the Nation
had achieved independence, it “faced innumerable
difficulties,” id., at 46, from finding ways to uphold
its treaties with foreign nations to economic upheaval at home, J.
Marshall, The Life of George Washington 313–316 (R. Faulkner
& P. Carrese eds. 2000). Peace with the Indians, rather than
conflicts sparked by unscrupulous traders, was imperative. Prucha
46.

															The Articles of Confederation aimed to meet that
need in part by giving Congress “the sole and exclusive right
and power of . . . regulating the trade and managing all
affairs with the Indians.” Art. IX, cl. 4. However,
that broad power came with two limitations: First, the Indians
could not be “members of any of the states.”
Ibid. And, second, “the legislative right of any state
within its own limits [could not] be infringed or violated.”
Ibid. In part because of those limitations, the
Articles’ solution proved to be less than ideal. As James
Madison would later write, the two limits were “obscure and
contradictory”; the new Nation had “not yet
settled” on which Indians were “members” of a
State or which state “legislative right[s]” could not
be “infringe[d].” The Federalist No. 42, pp.
268–269 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961).[2] More broadly, the Confederation Congress lacked any
robust authority to enforce congressional laws or treaties (in this
or any other domain). For example, it had no power to make laws
supreme over state law; there was no executive power independent of
the States; and state officers were not bound by oath to support
the Articles.

															Under the Articles, Congress entered treaties
with various tribes and sought to maintain a mostly peaceful
relationship with the Indians—but its authority was
undermined at every turn. See Prucha 44–50. Again and again,
Congress entered treaties with Indians that established boundary
lines and lands set apart for the Indians, and again and again,
frontier settlers encroached on Indian territory and committed acts
that violated those treaties. Id., at 46–48; F. Cohen,
Handbook of Federal Indian Law §1.02[3], pp. 21–22
(2012) (Cohen). Such violations were taken seriously; as offenses
against “the laws of nations,” they provoked the
Indians and provided “just causes of war.” The
Federalist No. 3, at 44 (J. Jay); see also 2 E. de Vattel, The Law
of Nations §§71–76, pp. 161–163 (J. Chitty
ed. 1876).

															Yet the Confederation Congress was almost
powerless to stop these abuses. After a committee noted confusion
about the extent of congressional power over Indian affairs in
1787, Congress had to ask the States for their cooperation in
curbing the abuses that their own citizens were perpetrating.
Prucha 48–49. The weakness of Congress meant, however, that
“federal attempts to check state intrusions were often
ignored.” Cohen §1.02[3], at 22. The result was
that, by the time of the Constitutional Convention, “the
young nation [stood on] the brink of Indian warfare on several
fronts.” Ibid. Such a war, feared some Founders, could
be destructive to the fledgling Republic. See G. Ablavsky, The
Savage Constitution, 63 Duke L. J. 999, 1033 (2014).

															The Constitution addressed those problems in
several ways. First and most plainly, the Constitution made all
federal treaties and laws “the supreme Law of the
Land,” notwithstanding the laws of any State. Art. VI. It
empowered Congress not only to “declare War,” but also
to “raise and support Armies,” “provide and
maintain a Navy,” and “provide for calling forth the
Militia to execute the Laws of the Union.” Art. I, §8.
It enabled Congress to “define and punish . . .
Offences against the Law of Nations.” Ibid. And it
granted Congress the authority to “make all Laws which shall
be necessary and proper” for carrying out any of those
powers. Ibid.

															The Constitution also provided one power
specific to Indian tribes: the power “[t]o regulate Commerce
. . . with the Indian Tribes.” §8, cl. 3.
That power, however, came very late in the drafting process and was
narrower than initially proposed. See L. Toler, The Missing Indian
Affairs Clause, 88 U. Chi. L. Rev. 413, 444–464 (2021)
(Toler). At two separate points, James Madison and John Rutledge
proposed a power to “ ‘regulate affairs
with the Indians,’ ” a provision that would have
mirrored the Articles. Id., at 447–448, 464–465
(emphasis added). Neither proposal received much debate, and both
were rejected. See id., at 464–466. Instead,
the Convention opted to include Indian tribes in a provision that
had initially been drafted to include only power to
“ ‘regulate commerce with foreign nations, and
among the several States.’ ” See ibid. The
Convention thus expanded the Commerce Clause to the form we know
today, empowering Congress to “ ‘regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian tribes.’ ” Id., at 466.

															On top of those powers, one more warrants note.
As I have written previously, the Constitution vests the President
with certain foreign-affairs powers including “[t]he
executive Power,” which includes a residual authority over
war, peace, and foreign interactions. See Art. II;
Zivotofsky v. Kerry, 576 U.S. 1, 35–40 (2015)
(Thomas, J., concurring in judgment in part and dissenting in
part); United States v. Curtiss-Wright Export Corp.,
299 U.S.
304, 319 (1936). From the start, Presidents have exercised
foreign-affairs powers not specifically enumerated on matters
ranging from maintaining the peace and issuing passports to
communicating with foreign governments and repelling sudden attacks
on the Nation. S. Prakash, Imperial From the Beginning
119–132 (2015). In his Neutrality Proclamation, for example,
President Washington declared that the United States would remain
strictly neutral in the then-ongoing war between England and
France. See A Proclamation (Apr. 22, 1793), reprinted in 1 American
State Papers 140 (W. Lowrie & M. Clarke eds. 1833). Congress
supported his Proclamation by imposing criminal penalties on anyone
who, among other things, went “beyond the limits or
jurisdiction of the United States with intent to be enlisted or
entered in the service of any foreign prince or state.”
§2, 1Stat. 383. While this Court has at times debated whether
those residual foreign-affairs powers are located in the Executive
exclusively or the Federal Government more broadly, see
Zivotofsky, 576 U. S., at 20–22, it has long
recognized the powers as arising from our constitutional framework
and residing at the federal level, see, e.g.,
Curtiss-Wright, 299 U. S., at 318.

															B

															After the Constitution’s ratification,
the new Federal Government exercised its enumerated powers with
regard to Indian tribes. To start, the Government embarked on an
era of treaty-making with Indian tribes. See Cohen §1.03[1],
at 23. That treaty-focused policy reflected the Washington
administration’s view that Indian tribes were best dealt with
as mostly “foreign nations,” with an eye towards peace
lest frontier conflicts continue to plague the new Nation. See
Letter from H. Knox to G. Washington (July 7, 1789), reprinted in 3
Papers of George Washington 138 (W. Abbot 1989); see also Toler
433–434. Many early treaties thus “were treaties of
peace and friendship, often providing for the restoration or
exchange of prisoners” or including “mutual assistance
pacts.” Cohen §1.03[1], at 25. Others dealt with
passports and commercial affairs. Id., at 25–26. And
many attested to the tribes’ status as dependent nations,
with the United States sometimes promising to protect the tribe.
Id., at 26.

															Unlike the Confederation Congress, the new
Federal Government was no longer powerless to maintain and enforce
its treaties. Exercising its new military powers, the First
Congress established a Department of War and vested the Department
with authority over “Indian affairs.” See §1,
1Stat. 50. War Secretary Henry Knox then called for, and obtained,
“a line of garrisons in the Indian Country, in order to
enforce the treaties and maintain the peace of the frontier.”
F. Prucha, American Indian Policy in the Formative Years 61 (1962)
(Prucha, American Indian Policy). Those garrisons remained for
years, working to prevent American settlers from illegally entering
Indian country or otherwise stirring up conflicts. Id., at
61–63.

															Meanwhile, President Washington exercised his
diplomatic authority to maintain peace on the frontier. For
example, when Pennsylvania settlers killed two members of the
Seneca Nation, Washington appointed a federal agent to meet with
the Seneca and “ ‘give the strongest assurances of
the friendship of the United States towards that Tribe; and to make
pecuniary satisfaction.’ ” Letter to T. Mifflin
(Sept. 4, 1790), reprinted in 6 Papers of George Washington 396 (D.
Twohig ed. 1996). And, in line with his executive authority to
“regulate all intercourse with foreign powers,” see 4
J. Elliot, Debates on the Constitution 126–127 (1863),
Washington instructed Pennsylvania’s Governor to refer the
Seneca “ ‘to the Executive of the United States,
as possessing the only authority of regulating an intercourse with
them, and redressing their grievances,’ ” Letter
to T. Mifflin, in Papers of George Washington 396.

															Congress too did its part, enacting a series of
acts “to regulate Trade and Intercourse with the Indian
Tribes, and to preserve Peace on the Frontiers.” See,
e.g., 1Stat. 469; 2Stat. 139; 1Stat. 137 (emphasis deleted).
Those “Trade and Intercourse Acts” underscored the
Federal Government’s new powers and worked to establish a
policy of peace and trade with Indian tribes. For example, the Acts
threatened criminal penalties on any U. S. citizen who entered
Indian lands and there committed crimes against Indians. See,
e.g., id., at 137; see also Prucha, American Indian
Policy 188–193. Though opponents of those provisions
contended that they were unnecessary because state laws and some
treaties already provided for criminal punishment, proponents
explained that the provisions were needed for those who went
“out of the limits of any of the States” and committed
crimes that may not have been covered by a particular treaty. See 3
Annals of Cong. 751 (1792).[3]
Thus, as with the border garrisons, these provisions were meant as
“an answer to the charge that” the United States did
not respect its treaties with Indian tribes, Prucha 92, while also
securing “peace with the Indian tribes” on the
frontier, 3 Annals of Cong. 751. In that respect, they were much
like the criminal penalties that Congress levied on those who went
abroad and enlisted with England or France and thereby threatened
the United States’ peace with those nations. See 1Stat.
383.

															The Trade and Intercourse Acts further hammered
out the Nation’s diplomatic and territorial stance with
respect to the Indian tribes. For example, reflecting the Federal
Government’s powers over commerce, territories, and foreign
affairs, the Acts forbade U. S. citizens from purchasing,
surveying, or settling on Indian lands. E.g., id., at
329–330. One of the Acts, enacted in 1796, then drew a
boundary line with Indian tribes and required citizens to have
passports when entering Indian lands. Id., at 470. If an
Indian came over the boundary line and committed a crime against a
U. S. citizen, the Acts authorized the President to demand
satisfaction from the tribe (while specifying that the Indian could
be arrested “within the limits of any state”). See,
e.g., §14, id., at 472–473. Then, to
prevent the tribes from allying themselves with European powers,
Congress forbade people from conveying messages to Indian tribes
from foreign states. 2Stat. 6.

															Congress also, of course, regulated trade with
the Indian tribes. For example, the Acts continued the colonial
practice of requiring licenses to trade with Indians and threatened
penalties on anyone who sold or purchased goods from Indians
without a license. See, e.g., 1Stat. 329–330. To
facilitate trade, Congress also established a series of trading
houses on the frontiers, appropriating federal funds to set up the
houses and purchase goods from Indians. See, e.g.,
id., at 443, 453–454; 2Stat. 173. And, “to
promote civilization” and secure the tribes’
“friendship,” Congress appropriated funds for the
President to furnish gifts to the Indians. See, e.g.,
§13, 1Stat. 472.

															To be sure, these measures were not entirely
successful, and the Federal Government’s policy was not
always one of peace. American frontiersmen continued to push into
Indian lands, and the military garrisons sometimes could not stem
the tide. See Prucha 62–63, 112. The Indians (often supported
by the British) engaged in intermittent raids and attacks against
American settlers, and the Federal Government and several
confederated tribes fought a significant war in the Northwest
Territories. Id., at 63–67; J. Yoo, Crisis and Command
75–79 (2011); M. Fletcher & W. Singel, Indian Children
and the Federal-Tribal Trust Relationship, 95 Neb. L. Rev.
885, 904–905 (2017) (Fletcher & Singel). Additionally,
the Federal Government often played tribes against each other to
obtain land concessions by treaty, leading many tribes (again
goaded by the British) to take up arms against the United States in
the War of 1812. See Cohen §1.03[3], at 39–41. In
the aftermath of that conflict, Presidents Monroe and John Quincy
Adams generally pursued a policy of assimilation or removing
Indians west with their consent. Prucha, American Indian Policy
226–233. That policy then gave way to a more forceful policy
of removing Indians west, particularly during the administration of
President Andrew Jackson. Id., at 233–249; Cohen
§1.03[4], at 41–51; Prucha 193–195,
239–240.

															But, at least until the War of 1812 (and, in
large part, in the years after it), Founding-era Presidents’
primary goals in this area were to achieve peace with the Indians,
sustain trade with them, and obtain Indian lands through treaties.
See id., at 32–33, 59, 61, 93. By establishing a
peaceful and trade-oriented relationship with the Indians, the new
country further hoped to exclude British Canada and other European
powers that might seek alliances with the Indian tribes. See Cohen
§1.03[3], at 37–38, n. 102; 2Stat. 6. During that time,
the Federal Government’s relationship with the Indians thus
remained (as it did for nearly the first hundred years of our
Nation) “ ‘more an aspect of military and foreign
policy’ ” than simple domestic law. See United
States v. Lara, 541 U.S.
193, 201 (2004).

															C

															Notably, neither President Washington nor the
first Congresses were particularly “concerned with the
remnants of tribes that had been absorbed by the states and had
come under their direction and control.” Prucha 92. The first
Trade and Intercourse Acts specifically provided that
“nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent any trade
or intercourse with Indians living on lands surrounded by
settlements of the citizens of the United States, and being within
the jurisdiction of any of the individual states.” §13,
1Stat. 331; §19, id., at 474. And the
Constitution’s Apportionment Clause provided that
representatives would be apportioned by the population of each
State, “excluding Indians not taxed”—implying
that there were Indians who paid taxes and were incorporated into
the bodies politic of the States. Art. I, §2, cl. 3.

															The States accordingly enacted numerous laws to
regulate Indians within their territorial boundaries, as well as
those Indians’ interactions with the States’ citizens.
See, e.g., D. Rosen, American Indians and State Law 34, 52
(2007) (Rosen). For example, New York passed laws forbidding its
citizens from suing to enforce contracts with Indians who lived on
Indian lands, and Virginia regulated the sale of land held by
Indians. See Laws of the Colonial and State Governments, Relating
to Indians and Indian Affairs, From 1633 to 1831, pp. 65–67,
158–159 (1832). Massachusetts authorized its Governor to
appoint guardians to oversee Indians and their property, while Ohio
and Indiana forbade the sale of liquor to Indians. Id., at
21–22, 232–234.

															On the whole, States also generally applied both
their civil and criminal laws to Indians, with many extending their
criminal laws to all Indians anywhere in the State—including,
sometimes, on Indian reservations within the State. See Rosen 53;
see also, e.g., Goodell v. Jackson ex dem.
Smith, 20 Johns. 693 (N. Y. Ct. Corr. Errors 1823);
State v. Doxtater, 47 Wis. 278, 2 N.W. 439 (1879)
(collecting cases). To be sure, some of these laws may have
conflicted with valid federal treaties or statutes on point, and
courts at the time often did not precisely demarcate the
constitutional boundaries between state and federal authority.
Rosen 55–56.[4] But, when
opponents of the Trade and Intercourse Acts’ criminal
provisions complained that state laws would take care of criminal
offenses, the provisions’ proponents did not reply that state
laws were disabled on this point—they instead noted that
citizens might go beyond the limits of States and commit crimes.
See 3 Annals of Cong. 751. And notably, Congress’ early
statutes did not purport to regulate Indians either on or off
Indian lands—they instead regulated and penalized only U. S.
citizens who were trading with Indians or committing acts on Indian
lands that threatened the peace with the tribes.

															Those statutory lines reflected the early
dynamic of federal-Indian relations, with Indian affairs counting
as both a matter of quasi-foreign affairs and of state
jurisdiction. For example, the early Trade and Intercourse Acts
only demanded satisfaction from Indian tribes if an Indian went
onto a State’s land and committed a crime. E.g.,
1Stat. 472–473. Under that regime, the Federal Government
asserted no authority over the acts of Indians who lived on tribal
lands—much less over Indians who lived off tribal lands and
within a State’s sole jurisdiction.

															That general jurisdictional line held until
1817, when Congress first enacted a statute to impose penalties on
anyone who committed a crime against a U. S. citizen while on
Indian lands. See 3Stat. 383. But Justice McLean, riding circuit,
held that statute unconstitutional in 1834—at least as it
applied to Indian lands located within the territorial limits of a
State. See United States v. Bailey, 24 F. Cas. 937
(No. 14,495) (CC Tenn.). As Justice McLean explained, “[t]hat
the federal government is one of limited powers, is a principle so
obvious as not to admit of controversy.” Id., at 938.
Yet the Indian lands at issue were not located within a federal
territory, and there had not been “any cession of
jurisdiction by the state of Tennessee.” Id., at
939.[5] Nor was the criminal
statute in any way related to “commerce” with the
Indian tribes. Ibid. Indeed, Justice McLean asked, if
Congress could enact this statute, “why may not [C]ongress
legislate on crimes for the states generally?” Id., at
940. He concluded that Congress “transcended their
constitutional powers” in asserting a general criminal
jurisdiction over tribal lands within the limits of a State.
Ibid. And, given the limited nature of the Federal
Government’s authority, state laws thus played a significant
role in regulating Indians within the territorial limits of States.
See id., at 939.

															III

															The Constitution’s text and the
foregoing history point to a set of discrete, enumerated powers
applicable to Indian tribes—just as in any other context.
Although our cases have at times suggested a broader power with
respect to Indians, there is no evidence for such a free-floating
authority anywhere in the text or original understanding of the
Constitution. To the contrary, all of the Government’s early
acts with respect to Indians are easily explicable under our normal
understanding of the Constitution’s enumerated powers. For
example, the Treaty Clause supported the Federal Government’s
treaties with Indians, and the Property Clause supported the gifts
allocated to Indians. The powers to regulate territories and
foreign affairs supported the regulation of passports and penalties
for criminal acts on Indian lands. The various war-related powers
supported military campaigns against Indian tribes. And the
Commerce Clause supported the regulation of trade with Indian
tribes.

															Moreover, the Founders deliberately chose to
enumerate one power specific to Indian tribes: the power to
regulate “Commerce” with tribes. Because the
Constitution contains one Indian-specific power, there is simply no
reason to think that there is some sort of free-floating, unlimited
power over all things related to Indians. That is common sense:
expressio unius est exclusio alterius. And that is
particularly true here, because the Founders adopted the
“Indian Commerce Clause” while rejecting an
arguably broader authority over “Indian affairs.” See
Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at 662. Accordingly, here
as elsewhere, the Federal Government can exercise only its
constitutionally enumerated powers. Because each of those powers
contains its own inherent limits, none of them can support an
additional unbounded power over all Indian-related matters. Indeed,
the history of the plenary power doctrine in Indian law shows that,
from its inception, it has been a power in search of a
constitutional basis—and the majority opinion shows that this
is still the case.

															A

															As the majority notes, some of the candidates
that this Court has suggested as the source of the “plenary
power” are the Treaty Clause, the Commerce Clause, and
“principles inherent in the Constitution’s
structure.” See ante, at 10–13; Lara, 541
U. S., at 200. But each of those powers has clear, inherent
limits, and not one suggests any sort of unlimited power over
Indian affairs—much less a power to regulate U. S. citizens
outside of Indian lands merely because those individuals happen to
be Indians. I will discuss each in turn.

															1

															First, and most obviously, the Treaty Clause
confers only the power to “make Treaties”; the
Supremacy Clause then makes those treaties the supreme law of the
land. Art. II, §2, cl. 2; Art. VI. Even under our most
expansive Treaty Clause precedents, this power is still limited to
actual treaties. See Bond v. United States, 572 U.S.
844, 854–855 (2014); id., at 893–894
(Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (the Treaty Power supports
treaties only on matters of international intercourse);
Missouri v. Holland, 252 U.S.
416, 433–435 (1920). It does not confer a free-floating
power over matters that might involve a party to a treaty.

															2

															Second, the Commerce Clause confers only the
authority “[t]o regulate Commerce . . . with
the Indian Tribes.” Art. I, §8, cl. 3 (emphasis
added). “At the time the original Constitution was ratified,
‘commerce’ consisted of selling, buying, and bartering,
as well as transporting for these purposes.” United
States v. Lopez, 514
U.S. 549, 585 (1995) (Thomas, J., concurring); see also 1 S.
Johnson, A Dictionary of the English Language 361 (4th rev. ed.
1773) (reprint 1978) (defining commerce as “Intercourse;
exchange of one thing for another; interchange of any thing; trade;
traffick”). And even under our most expansive Commerce Clause
precedents, the Clause permits Congress to regulate only
“economic activity” like producing materials that will
be sold or exchanged as a matter of commerce. See Lopez, 514
U. S., at 560; Gonzales v. Raich, 545 U.S.
1, 22 (2005).[6]

															The majority, however, suggests that the
Commerce Clause could have a broader application with respect to
Indian tribes than for commerce between States or with foreign
nations. See ante, at 11, 16. That makes little textual
sense. The Commerce Clause confers the power to regulate a single
object—“Commerce”—that is then cabined by
three prepositional phrases: “with foreign Nations, and among
the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.” Art. I,
§8, cl. 3. Accordingly, one would naturally read the term
“Commerce” as having the same meaning with respect to
each type of “Commerce” the Clause proceeds to
identify. See Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 74
(1824). I would think that is how we would read, for example, the
President’s “appoint[ment]” power with respect to
“Ambassadors, . . . Judges of the supreme Court,
and all other Officers of the United States.” Art. II,
§2, cl. 2. There is no textual reason why the Commerce
Clause would be different. Nor have the parties or the numerous
amici presented any evidence that the Founders thought that
the term “Commerce” in the Commerce Clause meant
different things for Indian tribes than it did for commerce between
States. See S. Prakash, Our Three Commerce Clauses and the
Presumption of Intrasentence Uniformity, 55 Ark. L. Rev. 1149,
1161–1162 (2003).

															Rather, the evidence points in the opposite
direction. See Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at
659–660 (Thomas, J., concurring). When discussing
“commerce” with Indian tribes, the Founders plainly
meant buying and selling goods and transportation for that purpose.
For example, President Washington once informed Congress of the
need for “new channels for the commerce of the Creeks,”
because “their trade is liable to be interrupted” by
conflicts with England. Statement to the Senate (Aug. 4, 1790),
reprinted in 4 American State Papers 80. Henry Knox similarly
referred to the “profits of this commerce” with the
Creeks in the context of a “trading house which has the
monopoly of the trade of the Creeks.” Report (July 6, 1789),
reprinted in id., at 15. And President Jefferson likewise
discussed the “commerce [that] shall be carried on
liberally” at “trading houses” with Indians.
Statement to Congress (Jan. 18, 1803), reprinted in id., at
684.[7] All of this makes
sense, given that the Founders both wanted to facilitate trade with
Indians and rejected a facially broader “Indian
affairs” power in favor of a narrower power over
“Commerce . . . with the Indian Tribes.”

															As noted above, that omission was not
accidental; the Articles of Confederation had contained that
“Indian affairs” language, and that language was twice
proposed (and rejected) at the Constitutional Convention. See
Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at 662.[8] Then, as today, “affairs” was a
broader term than “commerce,” with
“affairs” more generally referring to things to be
done.[9] Thus, whatever the
precise contours of a freestanding “Indian Affairs”
Clause might have been, the Founders’ specific rejection of
such a power shows that there is no basis to stretch the Commerce
Clause beyond its normal limits.[10]

															3

															Third, the “structural principles”
that the majority points to are only the foreign-affairs powers
that the Constitution provides more generally. See Lara, 541
U. S., at 201 (citing Curtiss-Wright, 299 U. S.,
at 315–322). As detailed above, the Constitution plainly
confers foreign-affairs powers on the Federal Government to
regulate passports, offenses against the laws of nations, and
citizens’ acts abroad that threaten the Nation’s peace.
S. Prakash & M. Ramsey, The Executive Power Over Foreign
Affairs, 111 Yale L. J. 231, 298–332 (2001). Those
powers were brought to bear on Indian tribes, with whom the Federal
Government maintained a government-to-government relationship. See,
e.g., Cohen §1.03[1], at 25–26; 1Stat. 470
(passports on Indian lands); id., at 137 (crimes on Indian
lands); id., at 383 (enlisting with foreign states).

															But that authority is a foreign, not
domestic, affairs power. It comprehends external relations, like
matters of war, peace, and diplomacy—not internal affairs
like adoption proceedings. The Court made that point explicit in
Curtiss-Wright: The “power over external affairs [is]
in origin and essential character different from that over internal
affairs.” 299 U. S., at 319; see also Youngstown
Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer, 343
U.S. 579, 635, n. 2 (1952) (Jackson, J., concurring in judgment
and opinion of Court) (recognizing this distinction). For external
affairs, the Constitution grants the Federal Government a wider
authority; but for internal affairs, the Constitution provides
fewer, more discrete powers. See, e.g.,
Curtiss-Wright, 299 U. S., at 315, 319;
Zivotofsky, 576 U. S., at 34–35 (opinion of
Thomas, J.).

															Again, all those limits dovetail with the
historical practices of the Founding era. As discussed above, the
Founding-era Government undertook a wide array of measures with
respect to Indian tribes. But, apart from measures dealing with
commerce, most (if not all) of the Federal Government’s
actions toward Indians either treated them as sovereign
entities or regulated citizens on Indian lands who might
threaten to breach treaties with Indians or otherwise disrupt the
peace.[11] For example,
early treaties that dealt with questions of peace and war plainly
involved some sort of sovereign-to-sovereign relationship. See,
e.g., Treaty with the Cherokees (1791), 7Stat. 39. And the
early Trade and Intercourse Acts regulated only the criminal
conduct of U. S. citizens on Indian lands.

															This congruence—between the
government’s actions and the Constitution’s enumerated
powers—likely reflects the fact that those powers,
collectively, responded to the most pressing concerns of the day:
that Congress could not enforce its treaties with Indians, police
the frontier, or regulate unscrupulous traders—all of which
caused violence and raised the specter of war with Indian tribes.
As noted, when Congress tried to expand its domain in 1817 to
regulate the criminal acts of Indians, one Justice of this Court
found it to be a palpable violation of Congress’ limited
powers. See Bailey, 24 F. Cas., at 938–940. And,
all the while, States continued to regulate matters relating to
Indians within their territorial limits. The normal federalist
dynamic thus extended to the domain of Indian affairs: The Federal
Government was supreme with respect to its enumerated powers, but
States retained all residual police powers within their territorial
borders. See id., at 938–939; McCulloch, 4
Wheat., at 405. And the Federal Government’s enumerated
powers were not unlimited, but confined to their plain meaning and
limits.

															B

															So where did the idea of a “plenary
power” over Indian affairs come from? As it turns out, little
more than ipse dixit. The story begins with loose dicta from
Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1 (1831). In that
case, the Cherokee Nation petitioned this Court for an injunction
to prevent Georgia from enforcing state laws in Cherokee territory
and from seizing Cherokee lands. Id., at 11. The Tribe
asserted that Article III both allowed the suit and gave this Court
original jurisdiction because the suit was one by a “foreign
Stat[e]” against the State of Georgia. §2,
cls. 1–2. Writing for the Court, Chief Justice Marshall
admitted that the Tribe’s argument was
“imposing”: The Tribe was “a state, as a distinct
political society,” but it was “not a state of the
union.” 5 Pet., at 16. Nonetheless, the Court refused to hear
the case. As Marshall reasoned, Indian tribes were not
“foreign state[s] in the sense of the constitution,” as
shown in part by the Commerce Clause’s delineation of States,
foreign nations, and Indian tribes.[12] Ibid. Rather, Marshall reasoned that the
Indian tribes occupied a unique status, which he characterized as
that of “domestic dependent nations” whose
“relation to the United States resembles that of a ward to
his guardian.” Id., at 17.

															Other than this opinion, I have been unable to
locate any evidence that the Founders thought of the Federal
Government as having a generalized guardianship-type relationship
with the Indian tribes—much less one conferring any
congressional power over Indian affairs. To the contrary, such a
status seems difficult to square with the relationship between the
Federal Government and tribes, which at times involved warfare, not
trust. See, e.g., Fletcher & Singel 904–907; F.
Hutchins, Tribes and the American Constitution 104 (2000). And, if
such a general relationship existed, there would seem to be little
need for the Federal Government to have ratified specific treaties
with tribes calling for federal protection. E.g., Treaty
with the Kaskaskia (1803), 7Stat. 78; Treaty with the Creeks
(1790), id., at 35. At bottom, Cherokee
Nation’s loose dicta cannot support a broader power over
Indian affairs.

															Nevertheless, Cherokee Nation’s
suggestion was picked up decades later in United States v.
Kagama, 118 U.S.
375 (1886)—the first case to actually apply a broader,
unenumerated power over Indian affairs. In Kagama, the Court
considered the Major Crimes Act of 1885, which, similar to the 1817
Act held unconstitutional by Justice McLean while riding circuit,
regulated crimes on Indian lands committed by Indians; the Major
Crimes Act differed from the 1817 Act only in that it extended to
crimes committed against other Indians. See §9, 23Stat. 385.
Similarly to Justice McLean’s Bailey opinion, the
Court first rejected the idea that the Commerce Clause could
support the Act—reasoning that “it would be a very
strained construction of th[e] clause, that a system of criminal
laws for Indians . . . was authorized by the grant of
power to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes.”
Kagama, 118 U. S., at 378–379.

															But the Court determined that the Major Crimes
Act was constitutional nevertheless. As the Court first noted, the
Act was “confined to the acts of an Indian of some tribe, of
a criminal character, committed within the limits of the
reservation.” Id., at 383. The Court then cited
several cases arising from congressional regulations of Indian
lands located within federal territories, noting that Congress had
previously punished offenses committed on such lands. See
id., at 380 (citing United States v. Rogers, 4
How. 567, 572 (1846); Murphy v. Ramsey, 114 U.S.
15, 44 (1885); American Ins. Co. v. 356 Bales of
Cotton, 1 Pet. 511, 542 (1828)). Next, the Court reasoned that
the Act “does not interfere with the process of the State
courts within the reservation, nor with the operation of State laws
upon white people found there.” 118 U. S., at 383.
Instead, the Act’s “effect[s are] confined to the acts
of an Indian of some tribe, of a criminal character, committed
within the limits of the reservation.” Ibid.

															That sort of language seems to view Indian lands
as akin to quasi-federal lands or perhaps “external” to
the Nation’s normal affairs. But nothing the Court cited
actually supported such a view. For example, the fact that the
Federal Government could regulate Indians on federal territories
does not justify such regulations for Indians within a
State’s limits. Nor does the fact that tribes were
“external” at the Founding mean that they remained
“external” in 1886.[13] Nor does the fact that Congress could regulate
citizens who went onto Indian lands, see Rogers, 4 How., at
572, mean that Congress automatically has the power to regulate
Indians on those lands.

															But the Court then subtly shifted its approach.
Drawing on Cherokee Nation, the Court next asserted that
“Indian tribes are the wards of the nation.”
Kagama, 118 U. S., at 383 (emphasis in original).
Because of “their very weakness and helplessness,” it
reasoned, “so largely due to the course of dealing of the
Federal Government with them and the treaties in which it has been
promised, there arises the duty of protection, and with it the
power.” Id., at 384. This power “over th[e]
remnants” of the Indian tribes, the Court stated, “must
exist in [the federal] government, because it never has existed
anywhere else,” “because it has never been denied, and
because it alone can enforce its laws on all the tribes.”
Id., at 384–385.

															These pronouncements, however, were pure ipse
dixit. The Court pointed to nothing in the text of the
Constitution or its original understanding to support them. Nor did
the Court give any other real support for those conclusions;
instead, it cited three cases, all of which held only that States
were restricted in certain ways from governing Indians on Indian
lands. Id., at 384 (citing Worcester v.
Georgia, 6 Pet. 515 (1832); Fellows v.
Blacksmith, 19 How. 366 (1856) (only the Federal Government,
not private parties, can enforce removal treaties); The Kansas
Indians, 5 Wall. 737 (1867) (States cannot tax Indian lands)).
It does not follow from those cases that the Federal Government has
any additional authority with regard to Indians—much less a
sweeping, unbounded authority over all matters relating to Indians.
Cf. Worcester, 6 Pet., at 547 (suggesting that tribes had
long been left to regulate their internal affairs). At each step,
Kagama thus lacked any constitutional basis.

															Nonetheless, in the years after Kagama,
this Court started referring to a “plenary power” or
“plenary authority” that Congress possessed over Indian
tribes, as well as a trust relationship with the Indians. See,
e.g., Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U.S.
445, 478 (1899); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock,
187 U.S.
553, 565 (1903); Winton v. Amos, 255 U.S.
373, 391 (1921). And, in the decades since, this Court has
increasingly gestured to such a plenary power, usually in the
context of regulating a tribal government or tribal lands, while
conspicuously failing to ground the power in any constitutional
text and cautioning that the power is not absolute. See,
e.g., ante, at 13 (noting this problem); United
States v. Alcea Band of Tillamooks, 329 U.S.
40, 54 (1946) (opinion of Vinson, C. J.); Santa Clara
Pueblo v. Martinez, 436 U.S.
49, 56–57 (1978).

															The majority’s opinion today continues in
that vein—only confirming its lack of any constitutional
basis. Like so many cases before it, the majority’s opinion
lurches from one constitutional hook to another, not quite hanging
the idea of a plenary power on any of them, while insisting that
the plenary power is not absolute. See ante, at 10–13.
While I empathize with the majority regarding the confusion that
Kagama and its progeny have engendered, I cannot reflexively
reaffirm a power that remains in search of a constitutional basis.
And, while the majority points to a few actual constitutional
provisions, like the Commerce and Treaty Clauses, those provisions
cannot bear the weight that our cases have placed upon them.

															At bottom, Kagama simply departed from
the text and original meaning of the Constitution, which confers
only the enumerated powers discussed above. Those powers are not
boundless and did not operate differently with respect to Indian
tribes at the Founding; instead, they conferred all the authority
that the new Federal Government needed at the time to deal with
Indian tribes. When dealing with Indian affairs, as with any other
affairs, we should always evaluate whether a law can be justified
by the Constitution’s enumerated powers, rather than pointing
to amorphous powers with no textual or historical basis.

															IV

															Properly understood, the Constitution’s
enumerated powers cannot support ICWA. Not one of those powers, as
originally understood, comes anywhere close to including the child
custody proceedings of U. S. citizens living within the sole
jurisdiction of States. Moreover, ICWA has no constitutional basis
even under Kagama and later precedents. While those cases
have extended the Federal Government’s Indian-related powers
beyond the original understanding of the Constitution, this Court
has never extended them far enough to support ICWA. Rather,
virtually all of this Court’s modern Indian-law
precedents—upholding laws that regulate tribal lands, tribal
governments, and commerce with tribes—can be understood
through a core conceptual framework that at least arguably
corresponds to Founding-era practices. To extend those cases to
uphold ICWA thus would require ignoring the context of those
precedents, treating their loose “plenary power”
language as talismanic, and transforming that power into the truly
unbounded, absolute power that they disclaim. The basic premise
that the powers of the Federal Government are limited and defined
should counsel against taking that step.

															A

															ICWA lacks any foothold in the
Constitution’s original meaning. Most obviously, ICWA has no
parallel from the Founding era; it regulates the child custody
proceedings of U. S. citizens in state courts—not on Indian
lands—merely because the children involved happen to be
Indians. No law from that time even came close to asserting a
general police power over citizens who happened to be
Indians—by, for example, regulating the acts of Indians who
were also citizens and who lived within the sole jurisdiction of
States (and not on Indian lands). If nothing else, the dearth of
Founding-era laws even remotely similar to ICWA should give us
pause.

															Nor can ICWA find any support in the
Constitution’s enumerated powers as originally understood. I
take those powers in turn: First, the Property Clause cannot
support ICWA because ICWA is not based on the disposition of
federal property and is not limited to federal lands; in fact, the
Federal Government owns very little Indian land. See Statistical
Record of Native North Americans 1054 (M. Reddy ed. 1993); S.
Prakash, Against Tribal Fungibility, 89 Cornell L. Rev. 1069,
1092–1093 (2004).

															Second, the Treaty Clause cannot support ICWA
because no one has identified a treaty that governs child custody
proceedings—much less a treaty with each of the 574 federally
recognized tribes to which ICWA applies. 25 U. S. C.
§§1903(3), (8); 86 Fed. Reg. 7554 (2021). Nor could they;
Congress declared an end to treaty-making with Indian tribes in
1871, and it appears that well over half of the tribes lack any
treaty with the Federal Government. See 16Stat. 566; Brief for
Tribal Defendants 37–38; see also generally Vols. 1–2
C. Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties (2d ed. 1902, 1904).
And, in part because one Congress can never bind a later Congress,
the Federal Government retains the power to abrogate treaties and
has done so for at least some Indian treaties. E.g., Lone
Wolf, 187 U. S., at 566; accord, La Abra Silver Mining
Co. v. United States, 175 U.S.
423, 460 (1899); 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of
England 90 (1765) (Blackstone). Whatever number of treaties remain
in force, they cannot justify ICWA.

															Third, the Commerce Clause cannot support ICWA.
As originally understood, the Clause confers a power only over
buying and selling, not family law and child custody disputes. Even
under our more modern, expansive precedents, the Clause is still
limited to only “economic activity” and cannot support
the regulation of core domestic matters like family or criminal
laws. See Lopez, 514 U. S., at 560; United
States v. Morrison, 529 U.S.
598, 610–611 (2000); National Federation of
Independent Business v. Sebelius, 567 U.S.
519, 552 (2012) (opinion of Roberts, C. J.); id.,
at 657 (Scalia, J., dissenting).[14] And even Kagama itself rejected the Commerce
Clause as a basis for any sort of expansive power over Indian
affairs. 118 U. S., at 378–379. Therefore, nothing about
that Clause supports a law, like ICWA, governing child custody
disputes in state courts.

															Fourth, the Federal Government’s
foreign-affairs powers cannot support ICWA. For today’s
purposes, I will assume that some tribes still enjoy the same sort
of pre-existing sovereignty and autonomy as tribes at the Founding,
thereby establishing the sort of quasi-foreign,
government-to-government relationship that appears to have defined
those powers at the Founding. Even so, the foreign-affairs powers
can operate only externally, in the context of lands under
the purview of another sovereign (like Indian tribal lands) or in
the context of a government-to-government relationship (such as
matters of diplomacy or peace). See Curtiss-Wright, 299
U. S., at 315, 319. But regulating child custody proceedings
of citizens within a State is the paradigmatic domestic
situation; the Federal Government surely could not apply its
foreign-affairs powers to the domestic family-law or criminal
matters of any other citizens merely because they happened to have
citizenship or ancestral connections with another nation.[15] Apart from the single provision
that allows tribal governments jurisdiction over proceedings for
Indians on tribal lands, see §1911(a), ICWA is completely
untethered from any external aspect of our Nation that could
somehow implicate these powers.

															That should be the end of the analysis. Again,
as the majority notes, our Federal Government has only the powers
that the Constitution enumerates. See ante, at 10–11;
McCulloch, 4 Wheat., at 405. Not one of those enumerated
powers justifies ICWA. Therefore, it has no basis whatsoever in our
constitutional system.

															B

															Even taking our “plenary power”
precedents as given (as the majority seems to do for purposes of
these cases), nothing in those precedents supports ICWA. To be
sure, this Court has repeatedly used loose language concerning a
“plenary power” and “trust relationship”
with Indians, and that language has been taken by some to displace
the normal constitutional rules. See ante, at 10–15.
But, even taken to their new limits, the Court’s precedents
have upheld only a variety of laws that either regulate commerce
with Indians or deal with Indian tribes and their lands. Despite
citing a veritable avalanche of precedents, respondents have failed
to identify a single case where this Court upheld a federal statute
comparable to ICWA.

															As noted above, Kagama was careful to
note that the Major Crimes Act at issue was “confined to the
acts of an Indian of some tribe, of a criminal character, committed
within the limits of the reservation.” 118 U. S., at
383. In that vein, the opinion cited cases arising from
congressional regulations of Indian lands located within Federal
Territories. See id., at 380 (citing Rogers, 4 How.,
at 572; citing Murphy, 114 U. S., at 44, and 356
Bales of Cotton, 1 Pet., at 542). In other words, it is
possible that Kagama viewed Congress as having the power to
regulate crimes by Indians on Indian lands because those lands
remained in a sense “external” to the Nation’s
normal affairs and akin to quasi-federal lands.

															Again, that would be a non sequitur.
Nevertheless, at a high level, it is possible to see how
Kagama was rooted in the same foreign-affairs and
territorial powers that authorized much of the early Trade and
Intercourse Acts (and which Congress may have relied upon when
passing the 1817 Act). See Cohen §5.01[4], at 390, and nn. 47,
48 (linking Kagama with Curtiss-Wright, 299
U. S., at 318); United States v. Wheeler,
435 U.S.
313, 323 (1978) (describing Indian tribes as possessing a
pre-existing sovereignty, apart from the United States). And,
viewed in that light, it would make sense to limit Kagama to
that conceptual root, treating regulations of tribal lands and
tribal governments as “external” to the normal affairs
of the Nation.

															Indeed, such a line explains almost all of the
myriad cases that respondents have cataloged as showing an
unqualified power over Indian affairs. See, e.g.,
Michigan v. Bay Mills Indian Community, 572 U.S.
782, 789 (2014) (tribal government’s sovereign immunity);
Cherokee Nation v. Hitchcock, 187
U.S. 294, 299, 308 (1902) (federal approval of mining leases on
tribal lands); Stephens, 174 U. S., at 476–477
(federal court in Indian territory). Many, for example, dealt with
federal laws that purported to diminish a tribe’s territory
or jurisdiction. South Dakota v. Yankton Sioux Tribe,
522 U.S.
329 (1998); Negonsott v. Samuels, 507 U.S.
99 (1993); Washington v. Confederated Bands and
Tribes of Yakima Nation, 439 U.S.
463 (1979); United States v. Hellard, 322 U.S.
363 (1944). Others dealt with state taxes on Indian lands. See,
e.g., Cotton Petroleum Corp. v. New Mexico,
490 U.S.
163 (1989); Bryan v. Itasca County, 426 U.S.
373 (1976); Board of County Comm’rs v.
Seber, 318 U.S.
705 (1943); Choate v. Trapp, 224 U.S.
665 (1912). Others still have permitted the Federal Government
to diminish a tribe’s self-government. See Santa Clara
Pueblo, 436 U. S., at 56–57. And yet others, in
Kagama’s direct lineage, dealt with crimes on Indian
lands. See, e.g., Lara, 541 U. S., at 200; see
also, e.g., United States v. Cooley, 593
U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 1); Wheeler, 435
U. S., at 323–324.

															In doing so, some of those criminal law cases
reasoned that the Double Jeopardy Clause permits separate
punishments by tribal governments and the Federal Government
because of the tribe’s separate sovereignty, underscoring
Kagama’s conceptual root. See, e.g.,
Cooley, 593 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 1);
Lara, 541 U. S., at 200. And, along the way, at least
some of these cases clarified, like Kagama, that they dealt
not with “Indians who have left or never inhabited
reservations set aside for their exclusive use or who do not
possess the usual accoutrements of tribal self-government,”
but only with Indians residing on Indian lands. McClanahan
v. Arizona Tax Comm’n, 411 U.S.
164, 167–168 (1973); accord, Fisher v. District
Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont., 424 U.S.
382, 383 (1976) (per curiam) (dealing with “an
adoption proceeding in which all parties are members of the Tribe
and residents of the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation”);
United States v. Algoma Lumber Co., 305 U.S.
415, 417 (1939) (regulations of “contracts for the sale
of timber on land of the Klamath Indian Reservation”). In
case after case, the law at issue purported to reach only tribal
governments or tribal lands, no more.

															To be sure, applying Kagama’s
conceptual framework ultimately reveals a catch-22 of sorts: If
Congress regulates tribal governments as a matter of external
affairs, then such regulation seems to undercut the very tribal
sovereignty that serves as the basis for that congressional power.
See Lara, 541 U. S., at 214–215 (Thomas, J.,
concurring in judgment). But that appears to be a hallmark of
Kagama and its progeny, not a peculiarity. As Chief Justice
Marshall once stated, Indians are neither wholly foreign nor wholly
domestic, but are instead “domestic dependent nations,”
akin to “ ‘[t]ributary’ ” states.
Worcester, 6 Pet., at 561; Cherokee Nation, 5 Pet.,
at 16–17. It may be that this contradiction is simply baked
into our Indian jurisprudence. And, in any event, recognizing the
proper conceptual root for these precedents makes the most sense of
them as a textual and original matter—and it is surely
preferable to continuing along this meandering and ill-defined
path.

															Yet, even confining Kagama’s
conceptual error to its roots, the majority seems concerned that
other precedents suggest that the Commerce Clause has broader
application with respect to Indian affairs. But many of this
Court’s precedents, even when referring to some broader
power, dealt with laws that governed trade with Indians, no more.
See, e.g., United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall.
407 (1866) (selling liquor to Indians); Perrin v. United
States, 232 U.S.
478 (1914) (same); United States v. Sandoval,
231 U.S.
28 (1913) (same); Dick v. United States,
208 U.S.
340 (1908) (selling liquor on Indian lands). Thus, even if
those cases suggest a broader power, they must be taken in context.
And the cases that the majority cites for its proposition turn out
to be the ones that do so in the most obvious dicta. For example,
Cotton Petroleum considered state taxes on Indian lands; it
had no need to opine on the Commerce Clause beyond explaining that
Indian tribes are not States. See 490 U. S., at 192. In a
similar vein, Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida,
517 U.S.
44 (1996), held only that the Commerce Clause does not confer
any authority to abrogate state sovereign immunity; any
language about the breadth of the “Indian Commerce
Clause” was wholly unnecessary to that result. Id., at
62. Shorn of their dicta, all of these precedents reflect only the
longstanding—and enumerated—authority to regulate
commerce with Indian tribes.

															Other precedents cited by the majority that do
not fit into Kagama’s conceptual framework are easily
explicable as supported by other, specific powers of Congress. For
example, Lone Wolf held that Congress can enact laws that
violate treaties with Indians; that holding was justified by
Congress’ general power to abrogate an existing law or
treaty. 187 U. S., at 565–566; accord, La Abra Silver
Mining Co., 175 U. S., at 460; Blackstone 90. Another
treaty-based case, Delaware Tribal Business Comm. v.
Weeks, 430 U.S.
73 (1977), involved the disposition of funds paid pursuant to a
treaty. It therefore makes sense as a matter of both the Property
and Treaty Clauses. And yet another treaty-based case involved a
promise by the United States to establish a discrete trust fund
with $500,000 for a Tribe, with annual interest to be paid to the
Tribe. See Seminole Nation v. United States,
316 U.S.
286, 293–294 (1942). Though that case spoke of historic
trust obligations, it arose from an explicit promise to create a
trust with $500,000.[16]
There is little reason to view such cases as expanding
Congress’ powers.

															Accordingly, the context of all these cases
points to lines that are at least plausibly rooted in Founding-era
practices and the text of the Constitution. See Brown v.
Davenport, 596 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2022) (slip
op., at 20–21) (judicial opinions must be taken in context,
not read like statutes). Congress can regulate commerce with Indian
tribes; it may be able to regulate tribal governments and lands in
Kagama’s vein; and it can make treaties, dispose of
federal funds, and establish discrete trusts.[17]

															ICWA does not remotely resemble those practices.
It does not regulate commerce, tribal governments, or tribal lands.
Nor is it based on treaties, federal funds, or any discrete trust.
By regulating family-law matters of citizens living within the sole
jurisdiction of States merely because they happen to be Indians,
ICWA stands clearly outside the framework of our Indian-law
precedents. To uphold ICWA therefore would drastically expand the
context in which we have previously upheld Indian-related laws in
Kagama’s framework.

															But, even if that is so, the majority appears to
ask “why Congress’s power is limited to these
scenarios.” Ante, at 17, n. 4. The majority
nearly answers itself: because our Constitution is one of
enumerated powers, and limiting Congress’ authority to those
“buckets” would bring our jurisprudence closer to the
powers enumerated by the text and original meaning of the
Constitution. See ante, at 11, 14, 17, n. 4. While I
share the majority’s frustration with petitioners’
limited engagement with the Court’s precedents, I would
recognize the contexts of those cases and limit the so-called
plenary power to those contexts. Such limits would at least start
us on the road back to the Constitution’s original meaning in
the area of Indian law.

															*  *  *

															The Constitution confers enumerated powers on
the Federal Government. Not one of them supports ICWA. Nor does
precedent. To the contrary, this Court has never upheld a federal
statute that regulates the noncommercial activities of a U. S.
citizen residing on lands under the sole jurisdiction of States
merely because he happens to be an Indian. But that is exactly what
ICWA does: It regulates child custody proceedings, brought in state
courts, for those who need never have set foot on Indian lands. It
is not about tribal lands or tribal governments, commerce,
treaties, or federal property. It therefore fails equally under the
Court’s precedents as it fails under the plain text and
original meaning of the Constitution.

															If there is one saving grace to today’s
decision, it is that the majority holds only that Texas has failed
to demonstrate that ICWA is unconstitutional. See ante, at
15, 17. It declines to disturb the Fifth Circuit’s conclusion
that ICWA is consistent with Article I, but without deciding that
ICWA is, in fact, consistent with Article I. But, given
ICWA’s patent intrusion into the normal domain of state
government and clear departure from the Federal Government’s
enumerated powers, I would hold that Congress lacked any authority
to enact ICWA.

															I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 An analogous law might be
if the Federal Government tried to regulate the child custody
proceedings of U. S. citizens who are eligible for Russian,
Mexican, Israeli, or Irish citizenship.
2
 For example, though it
was not exactly settled what it meant for an Indian to be a
“member” of a State, the definition often turned on
whether the Indian paid taxes in or was a citizen of that State.
Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, 570
U.S. 637, 662, n. 2 (2013) (Thomas, J.,
concurring).
3
 As reflected in the
debates on this statute, a majority of Congress thought that
“the power of the General Government to legislate in all the
territory belonging to the Union, not within the limits of any
particular State, cannot be doubted; if the Government cannot make
laws to restrain persons from going out of the limits of any of the
States, and commit murders and depredations, it would be in vain to
expect any peace with the Indian tribes.” 3 Annals of Cong.
751.
4
 The Constitution
expressly denied certain powers to States, including the power to
“enter into any Treaty,” but it is silent on
States’ relationship with Indians. See Art. I, §10; see
also Letter from T. Jefferson to H. Knox (Aug. 10, 1791), in 22
Papers of Thomas Jefferson 27 (C. Cullen ed. 1986) (noting that
States lack “a right to Treat with the Indians”). To be
sure, in 1832, this Court held that Georgia could not extend its
laws over the territory held by the Cherokee Nation. See
Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515. However, that
opinion “yielded to closer analysis,” and Indian
reservations have since been treated as part of the State they are
within. See Oklahoma v. Castro-Huerta, 597 U. S.
___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 5) (internal quotation marks
omitted).
5
 This decision thus was
consistent with one issued 12 years later by this Court—which
upheld the 1834 Trade and Intercourse Act’s criminal
provisions against a citizen of the United States, deemed not to be
an Indian, who committed a crime on Indian lands within “a
part of the territory of the United States, and not within the
limits of any particular State.” United States v.
Rogers, 4 How. 567, 571–572 (1846).
6
 Though the Court has only
passingly discussed the Commerce Clause’s application to
commerce with foreign nations, see Baston v. United
States, 580 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (Thomas, J., dissenting
from denial of certiorari) (slip op., at 3), it has still described
that application in terms of economic measures like embargoes, see
Atlantic Cleaners & Dyers, Inc. v. United States,
286 U.S.
427, 434 (1932); Buttfield v. Stranahan,
192 U.S.
470, 493 (1904). See also R. Barnett, The Original Meaning of
the Commerce Clause, 68 U. Chi. L. Rev. 101, 113–116,
128 (2001) (collecting Founding-era sources that equate foreign
commerce with trade).
7
 See also Statement of T.
Jefferson to Congress (Jan. 18, 1803), reprinted in 4 American
State Papers 684–685 (Officers may “have conferences
with the natives, on the subject of commercial intercourse; get
admission among them for our traders, as others are admitted; [and]
agree on convenient deposites, for an interchange of articles
. . . ”); Statement of T. Jefferson to Congress
(Jan. 28, 1802), reprinted in id., at 653 (“I lay
before you the accounts of our Indian trading houses . . .
explaining the effects and the situation of that commerce
. . . ”); Statement of S. Sibley et al. to
Congress (Dec. 27, 1811), reprinted in id., at 780–782
(in the Northwest Territory, formerly “[t]here was trade and
commercial intercourse; no agriculture,” but “[a]t
present, the little commerce which remains is sufficiently safe. It
is agricultural protection which is wanted”); Letter
from J. Mason to W. Eustis (Jan. 16, 1812), reprinted in
id., at 782–784 (“[P]eltries (deer skins) are in
most part received from the Indians . . . . The
market is on the continent of Europe. Since the obstructions to our
commerce in that quarter, peltries have not only experienced a
depression in price . . . ”); Protest by J.
Hendricks, J. Jackson, & J. Simms (June 28, 1796), reprinted in
id., at 613–614 (“No citizen is to be permitted
to sell, or furnish by gift, spirituous liquors to the Indians, or
to have any commercial traffic with them”); see also Natelson
214–215. Even one Founder who appears to have used the term
more loosely (in the context of an opinion on the constitutionality
of a national bank) focused only on trade and immigration
restrictions. Letter from E. Randolph to G. Washington (Feb. 12,
1791), in 7 Papers of George Washington: Presidential Series 330,
334–335 (D. Twohig ed. 1998) (“The heads of [the
commerce] power with respect to the Indian Tribes are 1. to
prohibit the Indians from coming into, or trading within, the
United States. 2. to admit them with or without restrictions. 3. to
prohibit citizens of the United States from trading with them; or
4. to permit with or without restrictions”).
8
 To be sure, as
respondents point out, the Constitution removed two limits on the
Indian-affairs power found in the Articles of Confederation: that
the Indians not be “members of any of the States,” and
that no State’s “legislative right . . .
within its own limits be . . . infringed.” See
Brief for Federal Parties 12–13. But removing those two
limits in the Indian context cannot simultaneously expand the very
meaning of “commerce,” particularly because the
Commerce Clause operates on two objects beyond Indian tribes. The
Constitution’s changes in this regard are thus best
understood as narrowing the subject matter of Congress’ power
while omitting external constraints on that power.
9
 Compare F. Allen, A
Complete English Dictionary (1765) (Allen) (“something
done,” or “the concerns and transactions of a
nation”); 1 S. Johnson, Dictionary of the English Language
(6th ed. 1785) (Johnson); N. Bailey, A Universal Etymological
English Dictionary (26th ed. 1789) (Bailey), with Allen (“the
exchange of commodities, or the buying and selling [of] merchandize
both at home and abroad; intercourse of any kind”); Johnson
(similar); Bailey (similar). Indeed, when the Founders referred to
Indian “affairs,” they were often referring to
diplomatic relations—going far afield of their references to
Indian “commerce.” E.g., G. Washington to
Congress (Mar. 26, 1792), in 4 American State Papers 225 (referring
to “the present crisis of affairs” with Indians and
“managing the affairs of the Indian tribes” in a
general sense, including inviting the Five Nations to the seat of
the Federal Government and giving presents to the tribes); Report
from H. Knox (Nov. 7, 1792), in id., at 225 (referring to
“the subject of Indian Affairs” in the context of
measures “to procure a peace with the Indians” and
troops); Natelson 217–218 (detailing preconstitutional
references to the Department of Indian Affairs). As noted above,
Congress tasked the War Department with duties
“relative to Indian affairs.” §1, 1Stat. 50. And a
Committee of the Continental Congress once remarked that “the
principal objects” of that Congress’ power of
“managing affairs with” Indians had encompassed
“making war and peace, purchasing certain tracts of their
land, fixing the boundaries between them and our people, and
preventing the latter [from] settling on lands left in possession
of the former.” 33 Journals of the Continental Congress 458
(1936 ed.). Of course, it may be that the Constitution’s
other enumerated powers authorized many of those
“objects.” But, whatever the precise bounds of an
“Indian affairs” power, it was decidedly broader than a
power over Indian “commerce.”
10  The
historical record thus provides scant support for the view,
advocated by some scholars, that the term “commerce”
meant (in the context of Indians) all interactions with Indians.
E.g., G. Ablavsky, Beyond the Indian Commerce Clause, 124
Yale L. J. 1012, 1028–1032 (2015) (Ablavsky). The main
evidence for that view appears to be (1) a few, fairly isolated
references to “commerce” outside the context of trade,
usually in the context of sexual encounters, (2) the fact that one
definition of “commerce” was “intercourse”
at the Founding, and (3) the fact that trade with Indians, at the
Founding, had political significance. Ibid. But, as noted
above, the Founders repeatedly used the term “commerce”
when discussing trade with Indians. And just because that trade had
political significance surely does not mean that all things of
political significance were “commerce.” Nor is the
definition of “commerce” as “intercourse”
instructive, because dictionaries from the era also defined
“intercourse” as “commerce.” E.g.,
Johnson; Allen. Even some of these same scholars concede that the
Founders overwhelmingly discussed “trade” with
Indians—far more than either “intercourse” or
“commerce” with them. See Ablavsky 1028, n. 81. And,
again, when the Founders did discuss “commerce”
specifically, they did so almost entirely in the context of trade.
See supra, at 20–21, and n. 7.
11  The
closest possible exception from this era was a provision in the
Trade and Intercourse Act of 1822 (later enacted in the Act of
1834), which provided that, “in all trials about the right of
property in which Indians shall be party on one side and white
persons on the other, the burden of proof shall rest upon the white
person, in every case in which the Indian shall make out a
presumption of title in himself from the fact of previous
possession and ownership.” §4, 3Stat. 683; §22,
4Stat. 733. But even that statute appears to be merely part of the
general “design” of the Acts: to “protect the
rights of Indians to their properties” “[b]ecause of
recurring trespass upon and illegal occupancy of Indian
territory” by frontier settlers. See Wilson v.
Omaha Tribe, 442 U.S.
653, 664 (1979). Viewed as such, this unremarkable provision
only furthered the foreign-affairs and commerce powers of the
Federal Government by preventing non-Indians from stealing Indian
lands, circumventing Congress’ trade-licensing scheme, and
disrupting the peace with Indian tribes.
12  In
dissent, Justice Thompson reasoned that the reference to
“Indian tribes” was meant only to ensure that the
Federal Government could regulate commerce with tribes,
which were often subunits of Indian nations. Accordingly, he
concluded that Indian nations were “ ‘foreign
states’ ” under Article III. Cherokee
Nation, 5 Pet., at 64.
13  As
discussed more below, Congress declared in 1871 that
“hereafter no Indian nation or tribe within the territory of
the United States shall be acknowledged or recognized as an
independent nation, tribe, or power with whom the United States may
contract by treaty.” 16Stat. 566.
14  Respondents insist that Lopez
and Morrison did not hold that family law is insulated from
federal law. But that misses the point. Lopez and
Morrison held that the Commerce Clause cannot regulate a
matter like family law, and they did not consider whether some
other constitutional power might do so. Cf. Hillman v.
Maretta, 569 U.S.
483, 490–491, 497 (2013) (finding pre-emption of a state
statute regarding beneficiaries and a change in marital status
under a federal statute regulating the life insurance of federal
employees). Here, no such independent power is to be
found.
15  Indeed, ICWA stands in sharp contrast
to statutes regarding international adoptions, in accordance with
the Hague Convention. Those statutes generally regulate only
adoptions by a foreign parent of a child residing in the United
States, or vice versa. E.g., 114Stat. 825; 42
U. S. C. §§14931, 14932. In other words, there
is a cross-border component; the statutes do not regulate adoption
proceedings merely because the child’s parents are, for
example, dual Mexican-American citizens or dual Irish-American
citizens. For ICWA to be comparable to those statutes, it could
regulate only the adoption of children who reside on an Indian
reservation by parents who live within the sole jurisdiction of a
State, or vice versa. While I take no position on whether such a
more limited law would be constitutional, that stark difference
only underscores ICWA’s lack of any external
focus.
16  Still
other cases fall somewhere in the middle of these powers, but they
are still easily explicable by normal constitutional rules. For
example, United States v. Creek Nation, 295 U.S.
103 (1935), held that the United States had to provide
“just compensation” for the taking of Indian
lands—which seems equally a measure of tribal lands as it
does standard Takings Clause jurisprudence. Id., at 110. And
Sunderland v. United States, 266
U.S. 226 (1924), involved conditions imposed on the purchase of
land by an Indian with funds held in trust by the Federal
Government; the funds had been acquired from the previous sale of
Indian lands that were themselves likely held in trust. Id.,
at 231–232; see Cohen §16.04[3], at 1090–1091.
Sunderland thus seems equally a measure of Indian lands and
conditions on spending.
17  Nor
should we be unduly tripped up by broad language like
“plenary” powers. Prior to our 1995 decision in
United States v. Lopez, 514 U.S.
549, the Court for decades had stated that “the Commerce
Clause is a grant of plenary authority” in the realm of
interstate commerce. See Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining
& Reclamation Assn., Inc., 452 U.S.
264, 276 (1981); Maryland v. Wirtz, 392 U.S.
183, 198 (1968); United States v. Darby,
312 U.S.
100, 115 (1941). Yet we then clarified that the Commerce
Clause’s application to interstate commerce, rather than
being unbounded, was limited only to economic activities. See
Lopez, 514 U. S., at 560. Again, it is critical to read
the Court’s precedents in their context.


