::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-376
::decision_name::  Haaland v. Brackeen
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Barrett
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 21–376, 21–377,
21–378 and 21–380

															_________________

															DEB HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,
et al., PETITIONERS

															21–376v.

															CHAD EVERET BRACKEEN, et al.

															

															CHEROKEE NATION, et al.,
PETITIONERS

															21–377v.

															CHAD EVERET BRACKEEN, et al.

															

															TEXAS, PETITIONER

															21–378v.

															DEB HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,
et al.

															

															CHAD EVERET BRACKEEN, et al.,
PETITIONERS

															21–380v.

															DEB HAALAND, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,
et al.

															

															on writs of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 15, 2023]

															

															Justice Barrett delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															This case is about children who are among the
most vulnerable: those in the child welfare system. In the usual
course, state courts apply state law when placing children in
foster or adoptive homes. But when the child is an Indian, a
federal statute—the Indian Child Welfare Act—governs.
Among other things, this law requires a state court to place an
Indian child with an Indian caretaker, if one is available. That is
so even if the child is already living with a non-Indian family and
the state court thinks it in the child’s best interest to
stay there.

															Before us, a birth mother, foster and adoptive
parents, and the State of Texas challenge the Act on multiple
constitutional grounds. They argue that it exceeds federal
authority, infringes state sovereignty, and discriminates on the
basis of race. The United States, joined by several Indian Tribes,
defends the law. The issues are complicated—so for the
details, read on. But the bottom line is that we reject all of
petitioners’ challenges to the statute, some on the merits
and others for lack of standing.

															I

															A

															In 1978, Congress enacted the Indian Child
Welfare Act (ICWA) out of concern that “an alarmingly high
percentage of Indian families are broken up by the removal, often
unwarranted, of their children from them by nontribal public and
private agencies.” 92Stat. 3069, 25 U. S. C.
§1901(4). Congress found that many of these children were
being “placed in non-Indian foster and adoptive homes and
institutions,” and that the States had contributed to the
problem by “fail[ing] to recognize the essential tribal
relations of Indian people and the cultural and social standards
prevailing in Indian communities and families.”
§§1901(4), (5). This harmed not only Indian parents and
children, but also Indian tribes. As Congress put it, “there
is no resource that is more vital to the continued existence and
integrity of Indian tribes than their children.”
§1901(3). Testifying before Congress, the Tribal Chief of the
Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians was blunter: “Culturally,
the chances of Indian survival are significantly reduced if our
children, the only real means for the transmission of the tribal
heritage, are to be raised in non-Indian homes and denied exposure
to the ways of their People.” Hearings on S. 1214 before the
Subcommittee on Indian Affairs and Public Lands of the House
Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, 95th Cong., 2d Sess.,
193 (1978).

															The Act thus aims to keep Indian children
connected to Indian families. “Indian child” is defined
broadly to include not only a child who is “a member of an
Indian tribe,” but also one who is “eligible for
membership in an Indian tribe and is the biological child of a
member of an Indian tribe.” §1903(4). If the Indian
child lives on a reservation, ICWA grants the tribal court
exclusive jurisdiction over all child custody proceedings,
including adoptions and foster care proceedings. §1911(a). For
other Indian children, state and tribal courts exercise concurrent
jurisdiction, although the state court is sometimes required to
transfer the case to tribal court. §1911(b). When a state
court adjudicates the proceeding, ICWA governs from start to
finish. That is true regardless of whether the proceeding is
“involuntary” (one to which the parents do not consent)
or “voluntary” (one to which they do).

															Involuntary proceedings are subject to
especially stringent safeguards. See 25 CFR §23.104 (2022); 81
Fed. Reg. 38832–38836 (2016). Any party who initiates an
“involuntary proceeding” in state court to place an
Indian child in foster care or terminate parental rights must
“notify the parent or Indian custodian and the Indian
child’s tribe.” §1912(a). The parent or custodian
and tribe have the right to intervene in the proceedings; the right
to request extra time to prepare for the proceedings; the right to
“examine all reports or other documents filed with the
court”; and, for indigent parents or custodians, the right to
court-appointed counsel. §§1912(a), (b), (c). The party
attempting to terminate parental rights or remove an Indian child
from an unsafe environment must first “satisfy the court that
active efforts have been made to provide remedial services and
rehabilitative programs designed to prevent the breakup of the
Indian family and that these efforts have proved
unsuccessful.” §1912(d). Even then, the court cannot
order a foster care placement unless it finds “by clear and
convincing evidence, including testimony of qualified expert
witnesses, that the continued custody of the child by the parent or
Indian custodian is likely to result in serious emotional or
physical damage to the child.” §1912(e). To terminate
parental rights, the court must make the same finding “beyond
a reasonable doubt.” §1912(f ).

															The Act applies to voluntary proceedings too.
Relinquishing a child temporarily (to foster care) or permanently
(to adoption) is a grave act, and a state court must ensure that a
consenting parent or custodian knows and understands “the
terms and consequences.” §1913(a). Notably, a biological
parent who voluntarily gives up an Indian child cannot necessarily
choose the child’s foster or adoptive parents. The
child’s tribe has “a right to intervene at any point in
[a] proceeding” to place a child in foster care or terminate
parental rights, as well as a right to collaterally attack the
state court’s decree. §§1911(c), 1914. As a result,
the tribe can sometimes enforce ICWA’s placement preferences
against the wishes of one or both biological parents, even after
the child is living with a new family. See Mississippi Band of
Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield, 490 U.S.
30, 49–52 (1989).

															ICWA’s placement preferences, which apply
to all custody proceedings involving Indian children, are
hierarchical: State courts may only place the child with someone in
a lower-ranked group when there is no available placement in a
higher-ranked group. For adoption, “a preference shall be
given” to placements with “(1) a member of the
child’s extended family; (2) other members of the Indian
child’s tribe; or (3) other Indian families.”
§1915(a). For foster care, a preference is given to (1)
“the Indian child’s extended family”; (2)
“a foster home licensed, approved, or specified by the Indian
child’s tribe”; (3) “an Indian foster home
licensed or approved by an authorized non-Indian licensing
authority”; and then (4) another institution “approved
by an Indian tribe or operated by an Indian organization which has
a program suitable to meet the Indian child’s needs.”
§1915(b). For purposes of the placement preferences, an
“Indian” is “any person who is a member of an
Indian tribe,” and an “Indian organization” is
“any group . . . owned or controlled by
Indians.” §§1903(3), (7). Together, these
definitions mean that Indians from any tribe (not just the tribe to
which the child has a tie) outrank unrelated non-Indians for both
adoption and foster care. And for foster care, institutions run or
approved by any tribe outrank placements with unrelated non-Indian
families. Courts must adhere to the placement preferences absent
“good cause” to depart from them. §§1915(a),
(b).

															The child’s tribe may pass a resolution
altering the prioritization order. §1915(c). If it does,
“the agency or court effecting the placement shall follow
such order so long as the placement is the least restrictive
setting appropriate to the particular needs of the child.”
Ibid. So long as the “least restrictive setting”
condition is met, the preferences of the Indian child or her parent
cannot trump those set by statute or tribal resolution. But,
“[w]here appropriate, the preference of the Indian child or
parent shall be considered” in making a placement.
Ibid.

															The State must record each placement, including
a description of the efforts made to comply with ICWA’s order
of preferences. §1915(e). Both the Secretary of the Interior
and the child’s tribe have the right to request the record at
any time. Ibid. State courts must also transmit all final
adoption decrees and specified information about adoption
proceedings to the Secretary. §1951(a).

															B

															This case arises from three separate child
custody proceedings governed by ICWA.

															1

															A. L. M. was placed in foster care
with Chad and Jennifer Brackeen when he was 10 months old. Because
his biological mother is a member of the Navajo Nation and his
biological father is a member of the Cherokee Nation, he falls
within ICWA’s definition of an “Indian child.”
Both the Brackeens and A. L. M.’s biological
parents live in Texas.

															After A. L. M. had lived with the
Brackeens for more than a year, they sought to adopt him.
A. L. M.’s biological mother, father, and
grandmother all supported the adoption. The Navajo and Cherokee
Nations did not. Pursuant to an agreement between the Tribes, the
Navajo Nation designated A. L. M. as a member and
informed the state court that it had located a potential
alternative placement with nonrelative tribal members living in New
Mexico. ICWA’s placement preferences ranked the proposed
Navajo family ahead of non-Indian families like the Brackeens. See
§1915(a).

															The Brackeens tried to convince the state court
that there was “good cause” to deviate from
ICWA’s preferences. They presented favorable testimony from
A. L. M.’s court-appointed guardian and from a
psychological expert who described the strong emotional bond
between A. L. M. and his foster parents.
A. L. M.’s biological parents and grandmother also
testified, urging the court to allow A. L. M. to remain
with the Brackeens, “ ‘the only parents
[A. L. M.] knows.’ ” App. 96.

															The court denied the adoption petition, and the
Texas Department of Family and Protective Services announced its
intention to move A. L. M. from the Brackeens’ home
to New Mexico. In response, the Brackeens obtained an emergency
stay of the transfer and filed this lawsuit. The Navajo family then
withdrew from consideration, and the Brackeens finalized their
adoption of A. L. M.

															The Brackeens now seek to adopt
A. L. M.’s biological sister, Y. R. J.,
again over the opposition of the Navajo Nation. And while the
Brackeens hope to foster and adopt other Indian children in the
future, their fraught experience with A. L. M.’s
adoption makes them hesitant to do so.

															2

															Altagracia Hernandez chose Nick and Heather
Libretti as adoptive parents for her newborn daughter, Baby O. The
Librettis took Baby O. home from the hospital when she was three
days old, and Hernandez, who lived nearby, visited Baby O.
frequently. Baby O.’s biological father visited only once but
supported the adoption.

															Hernandez is not an Indian. But Baby O.’s
biological father is descended from members of the Ysleta del Sur
Pueblo Tribe, and the Tribe enrolled Baby O. as a member. As a
result, the adoption proceeding was governed by ICWA. The Tribe
exercised its right to intervene and argued, over Hernandez’s
objection, that Baby O. should be moved from the Librettis’
home in Nevada to the Tribe’s reservation in El Paso, Texas.
It presented a number of potential placements on the reservation
for Baby O., and state officials began to investigate them. After
Hernandez and the Librettis joined this lawsuit, however, the Tribe
withdrew its challenge to the adoption, and the Librettis finalized
their adoption of Baby O. The Librettis stayed in the litigation
because they planned to foster and possibly adopt Indian children
in the future.

															3

															Jason and Danielle Clifford, who live in
Minnesota, fostered Child P., whose maternal grandmother belongs to
the White Earth Band of Ojibwe Tribe. When Child P. entered state
custody around the age of three, her mother informed the court that
ICWA did not apply because Child P. was not eligible for tribal
membership. The Tribe wrote a letter to the court confirming the
same.

															After two years in the foster care system, Child
P. was placed with the Cliffords, who eventually sought to adopt
her. The Tribe intervened in the proceedings and, with no
explanation for its change in position, informed the court that
Child P. was in fact eligible for tribal membership. Later, the
Tribe announced that it had enrolled Child P. as a member. To
comply with ICWA, Minnesota placed Child P. with her maternal
grandmother, who had lost her foster license due to a criminal
conviction. The Cliffords continued to pursue the adoption, but,
citing ICWA, the court denied their motion. Like the other
families, the Cliffords intend to foster or adopt Indian children
in the future.

															C

															The Brackeens, the Librettis, Hernandez, and
the Cliffords (whom we will refer to collectively as the
“individual petitioners”) filed this suit in federal
court against the United States, the Department of the Interior and
its Secretary, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and its Director,
and the Department of Health and Human Services and its Secretary
(whom we will refer to collectively as the “federal
parties”). The individual petitioners were joined by the
States of Texas, Indiana, and Louisiana—although only Texas
continues to challenge ICWA before this Court. Several Indian
Tribes intervened to defend the law alongside the federal
parties.

															Petitioners challenged ICWA as unconstitutional
on multiple grounds. They asserted that Congress lacks authority to
enact ICWA and that several of ICWA’s requirements violate
the anticommandeering principle of the Tenth Amendment. They argued
that ICWA employs racial classifications that unlawfully hinder
non-Indian families from fostering or adopting Indian children. And
they challenged §1915(c)—the provision that allows
tribes to alter the prioritization order—on the ground that
it violates the non-delegation doctrine.[1]

															The District Court granted petitioners’
motion for summary judgment on their constitutional claims, and a
divided panel of the Fifth Circuit reversed. Brackeen v.
Bernhardt, 937 F.3d 406 (2019). After rehearing the case en
banc, the Fifth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part. 994
F.3d 249 (2021) (per curiam). The en banc court
concluded that ICWA does not exceed Congress’s legislative
power, that §1915(c) does not violate the nondelegation
doctrine, and that some of ICWA’s placement preferences
satisfy the guarantee of equal protection. Id., at
267–269. The court was evenly divided as to whether
ICWA’s other preferences—those prioritizing
“other Indian families” and “Indian foster
home[s]” over non-Indian families—unconstitutionally
discriminate on the basis of race. Id., at 268. The Fifth
Circuit therefore affirmed the District Court’s ruling that
these preferences are unconstitutional.

															Petitioners’ Tenth Amendment arguments
effectively succeeded across the board. The Fifth Circuit held that
§1912(d)’s “active efforts” requirement,
§1912(e)’s and §1912(f )’s expert
witness requirements, and §1915(e)’s recordkeeping
requirement unconstitutionally commandeer the States. Ibid.
It divided evenly with respect to the other provisions that
petitioners challenge here: §1912(a)’s notice
requirement, §1915(a) and §1915(b)’s placement
preferences, and §1951(a)’s recordkeeping requirement.
Ibid. So the Fifth Circuit affirmed the District
Court’s hold- ing that these requirements, too, violate the
Tenth Amendment.

															We granted certiorari.[2] 595 U. S. ____ (2022).

															II

															A

															We begin with petitioners’ claim that
ICWA exceeds Congress’s power under Article I. In a long line
of cases, we have characterized Congress’s power to legislate
with respect to the Indian tribes as “ ‘plenary
and exclusive.’ ” United States v.
Lara, 541 U.S.
193, 200 (2004); South Dakota v. Yankton Sioux
Tribe, 522 U.S.
329, 343 (1998) (“Congress possesses plenary power over
Indian affairs”); Washington v. Confederated Bands
and Tribes of Yakima Nation, 439 U.S.
463, 470 (1979) (Congress exercises “plenary and
exclusive power over Indian affairs”); Winton v.
Amos, 255 U.S.
373, 391 (1921) (“It is thoroughly established that
Congress has plenary authority over the Indians and all their
tribal relations”); Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock,
187 U.S.
553, 565 (1903) (“Congress possesse[s] a paramount power
over the property of the Indians”); Stephens v.
Cherokee Nation, 174 U.S.
445, 478 (1899) (“Congress possesses plenary power of
legislation in regard to” the Indian tribes). Our cases leave
little doubt that Congress’s power in this field is muscular,
superseding both tribal and state authority. Santa Clara
Pueblo v. Martinez, 436 U.S.
49, 56 (1978) (“Congress has plenary authority to limit,
modify or eliminate the powers of local self-government which the
tribes otherwise possess”); Dick v. United
States, 208 U.S.
340, 353 (1908) (“Congress has power to regulate commerce
with the Indian tribes, and such power is superior and paramount to
the authority of any State within whose limits are Indian
tribes”).

															To be clear, however, “plenary” does
not mean “free-floating.” A power unmoored from the
Constitution would lack both justification and limits. So like the
rest of its legislative powers, Congress’s authority to
regulate Indians must derive from the Constitution, not the
atmosphere. Our precedent traces that power to multiple
sources.

															The Indian Commerce Clause authorizes Congress
“[t]o regulate Commerce . . . with the Indian
Tribes.” Art. I, §8, cl. 3. We have interpreted the
Indian Commerce Clause to reach not only trade, but certain
“Indian affairs” too. Cotton Petroleum Corp. v.
New Mexico, 490 U.S.
163, 192 (1989). Notably, we have declined to treat the Indian
Commerce Clause as interchangeable with the Interstate Commerce
Clause. Ibid. While under the Interstate Commerce Clause,
States retain “some authority” over trade, we have
explained that “virtually all authority over Indian commerce
and Indian tribes” lies with the Federal Government.
Seminole Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, 517 U.S.
44, 62 (1996).

															The Treaty Clause—which provides that the
President “shall have Power, by and with the Advice and
Consent of the Senate, to make Treaties”—provides a
second source of power over Indian affairs. Art. II, §2,
cl. 2. Until the late 19th century, relations between the
Federal Government and the Indian tribes were governed largely by
treaties. Lara, 541 U. S., at 201. Of course, the
treaty power “does not literally authorize Congress to act
legislatively,” since it is housed in Article II rather than
Article I. Ibid. Nevertheless, we have asserted that
“treaties made pursuant to that power can authorize Congress
to deal with ‘matters’ with which otherwise
‘Congress could not deal.’ ” Ibid.
And even though the United States formally ended the practice of
entering into new treaties with the Indian tribes in 1871, this
decision did not limit Congress’s power “to legislate
on problems of Indians” pursuant to pre-existing treaties.
Antoine v. Washington, 420 U.S.
194, 203 (1975) (emphasis deleted).

															We have also noted that principles inherent in
the Constitution’s structure empower Congress to act in the
field of Indian affairs. See Morton v. Mancari,
417 U.S.
535, 551–552 (1974) (“The plenary power of Congress
to deal with the special problems of Indians is drawn both
explicitly and implicitly from the Constitution
itself ”). At the founding, “ ‘Indian
affairs were more an aspect of military and foreign policy than a
subject of domestic or municipal law.’ ”
Lara, 541 U. S., at 201. With this in mind, we have
posited that Congress’s legislative authority might rest in
part on “the Constitution’s adoption of
preconstitutional powers necessarily inherent in any Federal
Government, namely, powers that this Court has described as
‘necessary concomitants of nationality.’ ”
Ibid. (quoting United States v. Curtiss-Wright
Export Corp., 299 U.S.
304, 315–322 (1936)).

															Finally, the “trust relationship between
the United States and the Indian people” informs the exercise
of legislative power. United States v. Mitchell,
463 U.S.
206, 225–226 (1983). As we have explained, the Federal
Government has “ ‘charged itself with moral
obligations of the highest responsibility and
trust’ ” toward Indian tribes. United
States v. Jicarilla Apache Nation, 564 U.S.
162, 176 (2011); Seminole Nation v. United
States, 316 U.S.
286, 296 (1942) (“[T]his Court has recognized the
distinctive obligation of trust incumbent upon the Government in
its dealings with these dependent and sometimes exploited
people”). The contours of this “special
relationship” are undefined. Mancari, 417 U. S.,
at 552.

															In sum, Congress’s power to legislate with
respect to Indians is well established and broad. Consistent with
that breadth, we have not doubted Congress’s ability to
legislate across a wide range of areas, including criminal law,
domestic violence, employment, property, tax, and trade. See,
e.g., Lara, 541 U. S., at 210 (law allowing
tribes to prosecute nonmember Indians who committed crimes on
tribal land); United States v. Bryant, 579 U.S. 140,
142–143 (2016) (law criminalizing domestic violence in Indian
country); Mancari, 417 U. S., at 537 (policy granting
Indians employment preferences); United States v.
Antelope, 430 U.S.
641, 648 (1977) (law establishing a criminal code for Indian
country); Yankton Sioux Tribe, 522 U. S., at 343 (law
altering the boundaries of a reservation); Sunderland v.
United States, 266 U.S.
226, 231–232 (1924) (agency action removing the
restrictions on alienation of a homestead allotted to an Indian);
Warren Trading Post Co. v. Arizona Tax Comm’n,
380 U.S.
685, 691, n. 18 (1965) (law granting tribe immunity from
state taxation); United States v. Algoma Lumber Co.,
305 U.S.
415, 417, 421 (1939) (law regulating the sale of timber by an
Indian tribe). Indeed, we have only rarely concluded that a
challenged statute exceeded Congress’s power to regulate
Indian affairs. See, e.g., Seminole Tribe, 517
U. S., at 72–73.

															Admittedly, our precedent is unwieldy, because
it rarely ties a challenged statute to a specific source of
constitutional authority. That makes it difficult to categorize
cases and even harder to discern the limits on Congress’s
power. Still, we have never wavered in our insistence that
Congress’s Indian affairs power “ ‘is not
absolute.’ ” Delaware Tribal Business Comm.
v. Weeks, 430 U.S.
73, 84 (1977); United States v. Alcea Band of
Tillamooks, 329 U.S.
40, 54 (1946) (“The power of Congress over Indian affairs
may be of a plenary nature; but it is not absolute”);
United States v. Creek Nation, 295 U.S.
103, 110 (1935) (plenary power is “subject to limitations
inhering in such a guardianship and to pertinent constitutional
restrictions”). It could not be otherwise—Article I
gives Congress a series of enumerated powers, not a series of blank
checks. Thus, we reiterate that Congress’s authority to
legislate with respect to Indians is not unbounded. It is plenary
within its sphere, but even a sizeable sphere has borders.[3]

															B

															Petitioners contend that ICWA exceeds
Congress’s power. Their principal theory, and the one
accepted by both Justice Alito and the dissenters in the Fifth
Circuit, is that ICWA treads on the States’ authority over
family law. Domestic relations have traditionally been governed by
state law; thus, federal power over Indians stops where state power
over the family begins. Or so the argument goes.

															It is true that Congress lacks a general power
over domestic relations, In re Burrus, 136 U.S.
586, 593–594 (1890), and, as a result, responsibility for
regulating marriage and child custody remains primarily with the
States, Sosna v. Iowa, 419 U.S.
393, 404 (1975). See also Moore v. Sims,
442 U.S.
415, 435 (1979). But the Constitution does not erect a firewall
around family law. On the contrary, when Congress validly
legislates pursuant to its Article I powers, we “ha[ve] not
hesitated” to find conflicting state family law preempted,
“[n]otwithstanding the limited application of federal law in
the field of domestic relations generally.” Ridgway v.
Ridgway, 454 U.S.
46, 54 (1981) (federal law providing life insurance preempted
state family-property law); see also Hillman v.
Maretta, 569 U.S.
483, 491 (2013) (“state laws ‘governing the
economic aspects of domestic relations . . . must give
way to clearly conflicting federal enactments’ ”
(alteration in original)). In fact, we have specifically recognized
Congress’s power to displace the jurisdiction of state courts
in adoption proceedings involving Indian children. Fisher v.
District Court of Sixteenth Judicial Dist. of Mont.,
424 U.S.
382, 390 (1976) (per curiam).

															Petitioners are trying to turn a general
observation (that Congress’s Article I powers rarely touch
state family law) into a constitutional carveout (that family law
is wholly exempt from federal regulation). That argument is a
nonstarter. As James Madison said to Members of the First Congress,
when the Constitution conferred a power on Congress, “they
might exercise it, although it should interfere with the laws, or
even the Constitution of the States.” 2 Annals of Cong. 1897
(1791). Family law is no exception.

															C

															Petitioners come at the problem from the
opposite direction too: Even if there is no family law carveout to
the Indian affairs power, they contend that Congress’s
authority does not stretch far enough to justify ICWA. Ticking
through the various sources of power, petitioners assert that the
Constitution does not authorize Congress to regulate custody
proceedings for Indian children. Their arguments fail to grapple
with our precedent, and because they bear the burden of
establishing ICWA’s unconstitutionality, we cannot sustain
their challenge to the law. See Lujan v. G & G Fire
Sprinklers, Inc., 532 U.S.
189, 198 (2001).

															Take the Indian Commerce Clause, which is
petitioners’ primary focus. According to petitioners, the
Clause authorizes Congress to legislate only with respect to Indian
tribes as government entities, not Indians as individuals. Brief
for Individual Petitioners 47–50. But we held more than a
century ago that “commerce with the Indian tribes, means
commerce with the individuals composing those tribes.”
United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407, 416–417
(1866) (law prohibiting the sale of alcohol to Indians in Indian
country); United States v. Nice, 241 U.S.
591, 600 (1916) (same). So that argument is a dead end.

															Petitioners also assert that ICWA takes the
“commerce” out of the Indian Commerce Clause. Their
consistent refrain is that “children are not commodities that
can be traded.” Brief for Individual Petitioners 16; Brief
for Petitioner Texas 23 (“[C]hildren are not
commodities”); id., at 18 (“Children are not
articles of commerce”). Rhetorically, it is a powerful
point—of course children are not commercial products.
Legally, though, it is beside the point. As we already explained,
our precedent states that Congress’s power under the Indian
Commerce Clause encompasses not only trade but also “Indian
affairs.” Cotton Petroleum, 490 U. S., at 192.
Even the judges who otherwise agreed with petitioners below
rejected this narrow view of the Indian Commerce Clause as
inconsistent with both our cases and “[l]ongstanding patterns
of federal legislation.” 994 F. 3d, at 374–375
(principal opinion of Duncan, J.). Rather than dealing with this
precedent, however, petitioners virtually ignore it.

															Next, petitioners argue that ICWA cannot be
authorized by principles inherent in the Constitution’s
structure because those principles “extend, at most, to
matters of war and peace.” Brief for Petitioner Texas 28. But
that is not what our cases say. We have referred generally to the
powers “necessarily inherent in any Federal
Government,” and we have offered examples like
“creating departments of Indian affairs, appointing Indian
commissioners, and . . . ‘securing and preserving
the friendship of the Indian Nations’ ”—none
of which are military actions. Lara, 541 U. S., at
201–202. Once again, petitioners make no argument that takes
our cases on their own terms.

															Finally, petitioners observe that ICWA does not
implement a federal treaty. Brief for Petitioner Texas 24–27;
Brief for Individual Petitioners 56–58. This does not get
them very far either, since Congress did not purport to enact ICWA
pursuant to the Treaty Clause power and the Fifth Circuit did not
uphold ICWA on that rationale.

															Presumably recognizing these obstacles,
petitioners turn to criticizing our precedent as inconsistent with
the Constitution’s original meaning. Yet here too, they offer
no account of how their argument fits within the landscape of our
case law. For instance, they neither ask us to overrule the
precedent they criticize nor try to reconcile their approach with
it. They are also silent about the potential consequences of their
position. Would it undermine established cases and statutes? If so,
which ones? Petitioners do not say.

															We recognize that our case law puts petitioners
in a difficult spot. We have often sustained Indian legislation
without specifying the source of Congress’s power, and we
have insisted that Congress’s power has limits without saying
what they are. Yet petitioners’ strategy for dealing with the
confusion is not to offer a theory for rationalizing this body of
law—that would at least give us something to work
with.[4] Instead, they frame
their arguments as if the slate were clean. More than two centuries
in, it is anything but.

															If there are arguments that ICWA exceeds
Congress’s authority as our precedent stands today,
petitioners do not make them. We therefore decline to disturb the
Fifth Circuit’s conclusion that ICWA is consistent with
Article I.

															III

															We now turn to petitioners’ host of
anticommandeering arguments, which we will break into three
categories. First, petitioners challenge certain requirements that
apply in involuntary proceedings to place a child in foster care or
terminate parental rights: the requirements that an initiating
party demonstrate “active efforts” to keep the Indian
family together; serve notice of the proceeding on the parent or
Indian custodian and tribe; and demonstrate, by a heightened burden
of proof and expert testimony, that the child is likely to suffer
“serious emotional or physical damage” if the parent or
Indian custodian retains custody. Second, petitioners challenge
ICWA’s placement preferences. They claim that Congress can
neither force state agencies to find preferred placements for
Indian children nor require state courts to apply federal standards
when making custody determinations. Third, they insist that
Congress cannot force state courts to maintain or transmit to the
Federal Government records of custody proceedings involving Indian
children.[5]

															A

															As a reminder, “involuntary
proceedings” are those to which a parent does not consent.
§1912; 25 CFR §23.2. Heightened protections for parents
and tribes apply in this context, and while petitioners challenge
most of them, the “active efforts” provision is their
primary target. That provision requires “[a]ny party”
seeking to effect an involuntary foster care placement or
termination of parental rights to “satisfy the court that
active efforts have been made to provide remedial services and
rehabilitative programs designed to prevent the breakup of the
Indian family and that these efforts have proved
unsuccessful.” §1912(d). According to petitioners, this
subsection directs state and local agencies to provide extensive
services to the parents of Indian children. It is well established
that the Tenth Amendment bars Congress from “command[ing] the
States’ officers, or those of their political subdivisions,
to administer or enforce a federal regulatory program.”
Printz v. United States, 521
U.S. 898, 935 (1997). The “active efforts”
provision, petitioners say, does just that.

															Petitioners’ argument has a fundamental
flaw: To succeed, they must show that §1912(d) harnesses a
State’s legislative or executive authority. But the provision
applies to “any party” who initiates an involuntary
proceeding, thus sweeping in private individuals and agencies as
well as government entities. A demand that either public or private
actors can satisfy is unlikely to require the use of sovereign
power. Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.,
584 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2018) (slip op., at
19–20).

															Notwithstanding the term “any
party,” petitioners insist that §1912(d) is “best
read” as a command to the States. See id., at ___
(slip op., at 21) (whether a federal law directly regulates the
States depends on how it is “best read”). They contend
that, as a practical matter, States—not private
parties—initiate the vast majority of involuntary
proceedings. Despite the breadth of the language, the argument
goes, States are obviously the “parties” to whom the
statute refers.

															The record contains no evidence supporting the
assertion that States institute the vast majority of involuntary
proceedings. Examples of private suits are not hard to find, so we
are skeptical that their number is negligible. See, e.g.,
Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl, 570
U.S. 637, 644–646 (2013) (prospective adoptive parents);
In re Guardianship of Eliza W., 304 Neb. 995, 997, 938
N.W.2d 307, 310 (2020) (grandmother); In re Guardianship of
J. C. D., 2004 S. D. 96, ¶4, 686 N.W.2d
647, 648 (2004) (grandparents); In re Adoption of
T. A. W., 186 Wash. 2d 828, 835–837,
850–851, 383 P.3d 492, 494–495, 501–502 (2016)
(en banc) (mother and stepfather); J. W. v.
R. J., 
951 P.2d 1206, 1212–1213 (Alaska 1998) (same). Indeed,
Texas’s own family code permits certain private parties to
initiate suits for the termination of parental rights. Tex. Fam.
Code Ann. §102.003(a) (West Cum. Supp. 2022); see Reply Brief
for Texas 27. And while petitioners treat “active
efforts” as synonymous with “government
programs,” state courts have applied the “active
efforts” requirement in private suits too. See, e.g.,
In re Adoption of T. A. W., 186 Wash. 2d, at
851–852, 383 P. 3d, at 502–503; S. S.
v. Stephanie H., 241 Ariz. 419, 424, 388 P.3d 569, 574 (App.
2017); In re N. B., 199 P.3d 16, 23–24 (Colo.
App. 2007). That is consistent with ICWA’s findings, which
describe the role that both public and private actors played in the
unjust separation of Indian children from their families and
tribes. §1901. Given all this, it is implausible that
§1912(d) is directed primarily, much less exclusively, at the
States.[6]

															Legislation that applies
“evenhandedly” to state and private actors does not
typically implicate the Tenth Amendment. Murphy, 584
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 20). In South Carolina v.
Baker, for example, we held that a generally applicable law
regulating unregistered bonds did not commandeer the States;
rather, it required States “wishing to engage in certain
activity [to] take administrative and sometimes legislative action
to comply with federal standards regulating that activity.”
485 U.S.
505, 514–515 (1988). We reached a similar conclusion in
Reno v. Condon, which dealt with a statute
prohibiting state motor vehicle departments (DMVs) from selling a
driver’s personal information without the driver’s
consent. 528 U.S.
141, 143–144 (2000). The law regulated not only the state
DMVs, but also private parties who had already purchased this
information and sought to resell it. Id., at 146. Applying
Baker, we concluded that the Act did not “require the
States in their sovereign capacity to regulate their own
citizens,” “enact any laws or regulations,” or
“assist in the enforcement of federal statutes regulating
private individuals.” 528 U. S., at 150–151.
Instead, it permissibly “regulate[d] the States as the owners
of data bases.” Id., at 151.

															Petitioners argue that Baker and
Condon are distinguishable because they addressed laws
regulating a State’s commercial activity, while ICWA
regulates a State’s “core sovereign function of
protecting the health and safety of children within its
borders.” Brief for Petitioner Texas 66. A State can stop
selling bonds or a driver’s personal information, petitioners
say, but it cannot withdraw from the area of child
welfare—protecting children is the business of government,
even if it is work in which private parties share. Nor, of course,
could Texas avoid ICWA by excluding only Indian children from
social services. Because States cannot exit the field, they are
hostage to ICWA, which requires them to implement Congress’s
regulatory program for the care of Indian children and families.
Id., at 64–65; Reply Brief for Texas 27.

															This argument is presumably directed at
situations in which only the State can rescue a child from
neglectful parents. But §1912 applies to more than child
neglect—for instance, it applies when a biological mother
arranges for a private adoption without the biological
father’s consent. See, e.g., Adoptive Couple,
570 U. S., at 643–644. And even when a child is trapped
in an abusive home, the State is not necessarily the only option
for rescue—for instance, a grandmother can seek guardianship
of a grandchild whose parents are failing to care for her. See,
e.g., In re Guardianship of Eliza W., 304 Neb.,
at 996–997, 938 N. W. 2d, at 309–310.
Petitioners do not distinguish between these varied situations,
much less isolate a domain in which only the State can act. Some
amici assert that, at the very least, removing children from
imminent danger in the home falls exclusively to the government.
Brief for Academy of Adoption and Assisted Reproduction Attorneys
et al. as Amici Curiae 14 (“Amici are aware of no
state in which a private actor may lawfully remove a child from his
existing home”). Maybe so—but that does not help
petitioners’ commandeering argument, because the
“active efforts” requirement does not apply to
emergency removals. §1922. If ICWA commandeers state
performance of a “core sovereign function,” petitioners
do not give us the details.

															When a federal statute applies on its face to
both private and state actors, a commandeering argument is a heavy
lift—and petitioners have not pulled it off. Both state and
private actors initiate involuntary proceedings. And, if there is a
core of involuntary proceedings committed exclusively to the
sovereign, Texas neither identifies its contours nor explains what
§1912(d) requires of a State in that context. Petitioners have
therefore failed to show that the “active efforts”
requirement commands the States to deploy their executive or
legislative power to implement federal Indian policy.

															As for petitioners’ challenges to other
provisions of §1912—the notice requirement, expert
witness requirement, and evidentiary standards—we doubt that
requirements placed on a State as litigant implicate the Tenth
Amendment. But in any event, these provisions, like §1912(d),
apply to both private and state actors, so they too pose no
anticommandeering problem.

															B

															Petitioners also raise a Tenth Amendment
challenge to §1915, which dictates placement preferences for
Indian children. According to petitioners, this provision orders
state agencies to perform a “diligent search” for
placements that satisfy ICWA’s hierarchy. Brief for
Petitioner Texas 63; Reply Brief for Texas 24; see also Brief for
Individual Petitioners 67–68. Petitioners assert that the
Department of the Interior understands §1915 this way, 25 CFR
§23.132(c)(5), and the Tribes who intervene in proceedings
governed by ICWA share that understanding—for example,
“the Librettis’ adoption of Baby O was delayed because
the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo Tribe demanded that county officials
exhaustively search for a placement with the Tribe first.”
Reply Brief for Texas 24–25. Just as Congress cannot compel
state officials to search databases to determine the lawfulness of
gun sales, Printz, 521 U. S., at 902–904,
petitioners argue, Congress cannot compel state officials to search
for a federally preferred placement.

															As an initial matter, this argument encounters
the same problem that plagues petitioners with respect to
§1912: Petitioners have not shown that the “diligent
search” requirement, which applies to both private and public
parties, demands the use of state sovereign authority. But this
argument fails for another reason too: Section 1915 does not
require anyone, much less the States, to search for
alternative placements. As the United States emphasizes,
petitioners’ interpretation “cannot be squared with
this Court’s decision in Adoptive Couple,” which
held that “ ‘there simply is no
“preference” to apply if no alternative party that is
eligible to be preferred . . . has come
forward.’ ” Brief for Federal Parties 44 (quoting
570 U. S., at 654); Adoptive Couple, 570 U. S., at
654 (“§1915(a)’s preferences are inapplicable in
cases where no alternative party has formally sought to adopt the
child”). Instead, the burden is on the tribe or other
objecting party to produce a higher-ranked placement. Ibid.
So, as it stands, petitioners assert an anticommandeering challenge
to a provision that does not command state agencies to do
anything.

															State courts are a different matter. ICWA
indisputably requires them to apply the placement preferences in
making custody determinations. §§1915(a), (b).
Petitioners argue that this too violates the anticommandeering
doctrine. To be sure, they recognize that Congress can require
state courts, unlike state executives and legislatures, to enforce
federal law. See New York v. United States, 505 U.S.
144, 178–179 (1992) (“Federal statutes enforceable
in state courts do, in a sense, direct state judges to enforce
them, but this sort of federal ‘direction’ of state
judges is mandated by the text of the Supremacy Clause”). But
they draw a distinction between requiring state courts to entertain
federal causes of action and requiring them to apply federal law to
state causes of action. They claim that if state law provides the
cause of action—as Texas law does here—then the State
gets to call the shots, unhindered by any federal instruction to
the contrary. Brief for Individual Petitioners 62–63,
66–67.

															This argument runs headlong into the
Constitution. The Supremacy Clause provides that “the Laws of
the United States . . . shall be the supreme Law of the
Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any
Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any state to the Contrary
notwithstanding.” Art. VI, cl. 2. Thus, when Congress
enacts a valid statute pursuant to its Article I powers,
“state law is naturally preempted to the extent of any
conflict with a federal statute.” Crosby v.
National Foreign Trade Council, 530
U.S. 363, 372 (2000). End of story. That a federal law modifies
a state law cause of action does not limit its preemptive effect.
See, e.g., Hillman, 569 U. S., at 493–494
(federal law establishing an “ ‘order of
precedence’ ” for beneficiaries of life insurance
preempted state law); Egelhoff v. Egelhoff, 532 U.S.
141, 151–152 (2001) (Employee Retirement Income Security
Act preempted state law regarding the economic consequences of
divorce); Wissner v. Wissner, 338
U.S. 655, 660–661 (1950) (federal military benefits law
preempted state community-property rules).

															C

															Finally, we turn to ICWA’s recordkeeping
provisions. Section 1951(a) requires courts to provide the
Secretary of the Interior with a copy of the final order in the
adoptive placement of any Indian child. The court must also provide
“other information as may be necessary to show” the
child’s name and tribal affiliation, the names and addresses
of the biological parents and adoptive parents, and the identity of
any agency with information about the adoptive placement. Section
1915(e) requires the State to “maintai[n]” a record
“evidencing the efforts to comply with the order of
preference” specified by ICWA. The record “shall be
made available at any time upon the request of the Secretary or the
Indian child’s tribe.” Petitioners argue that Congress
cannot conscript the States into federal service by assigning them
recordkeeping tasks.[7]

															The anticommandeering doctrine applies
“distinctively” to a state court’s adjudicative
responsibilities. Printz, 521 U. S., at 907. As we just
explained, this distinction is evident in the Supremacy Clause,
which refers specifically to state judges. Art. VI, cl. 2.
From the beginning, the text manifested in practice: As originally
understood, the Constitution allowed Congress to require
“state judges to enforce federal prescriptions, insofar as
those prescriptions related to matters appropriate for the judicial
power.” Printz, 521 U. S., at 907 (emphasis
deleted). In Printz, we indicated that this principle may
extend to tasks that are “ancillary” to a
“quintessentially adjudicative task”—such as
“recording, registering, and certifying” documents.
Id., at 908, n. 2.

															Petitioners reject Printz’s
observation, insisting that there is a distinction between rules of
decision (which state courts must follow) and recordkeeping
requirements (which they can ignore). But Printz described
numerous historical examples of Congress imposing recordkeeping and
reporting requirements on state courts. The early Congresses passed
laws directing state courts to perform certain tasks fairly
described as “ancillary” to the courts’
adjudicative duties. For example, state courts were required to
process and record applications for United States citizenship. Act
of Mar. 26, 1790, ch. 3, §1, 1Stat. 103–104. The clerk
(or other court official) was required “to certify and
transmit” the application to the Secretary of State, along
with information about “the name, age, nation, residence and
occupation, for the time being, of the alien.” Act of June
18, 1798, §2, 1Stat. 567. The clerk also had to register
aliens seeking naturalization and issue certificates confirming the
court’s receipt of the alien’s request for
registration. Act of Apr. 14, 1802, §2, 2Stat. 155.[8]

															Federal law imposed other duties on state courts
unrelated to immigration and naturalization. The Judiciary Act of
1789, which authorized “any justice of the peace, or other
magistrate of any of the United States” to arrest and
imprison federal offenders, required the judge to set bail at the
defendant’s request. §33, 1Stat. 91. Congress also
required state courts to administer oaths to prisoners, to issue
certificates authorizing the apprehension of fugitives, and to
collect proof of the claims of Canadian refugees who had aided the
United States in the Revolutionary War. Act of May 5, 1792, ch. 29,
§2, 1Stat. 266 (“any person imprisoned . . .
may have the oath or affirmation herein after expressed
administered to him by any judge of the United States, or of the
general or supreme court of law of the state in which the debtor is
imprisoned”); Act of Feb. 12, 1793, ch. 7, §1, 1Stat.
302 (“governor or chief magistrate of the state or
territory” shall “certif[y] as authentic” an
indictment or affidavit charging a “fugitive from
justice”); Act of Apr. 7, 1798, §3, 1Stat. 548
(“proof of the several circumstances necessary to entitle the
applicants to the benefits of this act, may be taken before
. . . a judge of the supreme or superior court, or the
first justice or first judge of the court of common pleas or
country court of any state”).

															There is more. Shortly after ratification,
Congress passed a detailed statute that required state-court judges
to gather and certify reports. Act of July 20, 1790, §3,
1Stat. 132. The Act authorized commanders of ships to request
examinations of their vessels from any “justice of the peace
of the city, town or place.” Ibid. The judge would
order three qualified people to prepare a report on the
vessel’s condition, which the judge would review and
“endorse.” Ibid. Then, the judge was required to
issue an order regarding “whether the said ship or vessel is
fit to proceed on the intended voyage; and if not, whether such
repairs can be made or deficiencies supplied where the ship or
vessel then lays.” Ibid.

															These early congressional enactments
“provid[e] ‘contemporaneous and weighty evidence’
of the Constitution’s meaning.” Bowsher v.
Synar, 478 U.S.
714, 723 (1986). Collectively, they demonstrate that the
Constitution does not prohibit the Federal Government from imposing
adjudicative tasks on state courts. This makes sense against the
backdrop of the Madisonian Compromise: Since Article III
established only the Supreme Court and made inferior federal courts
optional, Congress could have relied almost entirely on state
courts to apply federal law. Printz, 521 U. S., at 907.
Had Congress taken that course, it would have had to rely on state
courts to perform adjudication-adjacent tasks too.

															We now confirm what we suggested in
Printz: Congress may impose ancillary recordkeeping
requirements related to state-court proceedings without violating
the Tenth Amendment. Such requirements do not offload the Federal
Government’s responsibilities onto the States, nor do they
put state legislatures and executives “under the direct
control of Congress.” Murphy, 584 U. S., at ___
(slip op., at 18). Rather, they are a logical consequence of our
system of “dual sovereignty” in which state courts are
required to apply federal law. See Gregory v.
Ashcroft, 501 U.S.
452, 457 (1991).

															Here, ICWA’s recordkeeping requirements
are comparable in kind and in degree to the historical examples.
Like the naturalization laws, §1951(a) requires the state
court to transmit to the Secretary a copy of a court order along
with basic demographic information. Section 1915(e) likewise
requires the State to record a limited amount of
information—the efforts made to comply with the placement
preferences—and provide the information to the Secretary and
to the child’s tribe. These duties are
“ancillary” to the state court’s obligation to
conduct child custody proceedings in compliance with ICWA.
Printz, 521 U. S., at 908, n. 2. Thus,
ICWA’s recordkeeping requirements are consistent with the
Tenth Amendment.

															IV

															Petitioners raise two additional claims: an
equal protection challenge to ICWA’s placement preferences
and a nondelegation challenge to the provision allowing tribes to
alter the placement preferences. We do not reach the merits of
these claims because no party before the Court has standing to
raise them. Article III requires a plaintiff to show that she has
suffered an injury in fact that is “ ‘fairly
traceable to the defendant’s allegedly unlawful conduct and
likely to be redressed by the requested relief.’ ”
California v. Texas, 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021)
(slip op., at 4). Neither the individual petitioners nor Texas can
pass that test.

															A

															The individual petitioners argue that ICWA
injures them by placing them on “[un]equal footing”
with Indian parents who seek to adopt or foster an Indian child.
Northeastern Fla. Chapter, Associated Gen. Contractors of
America v. Jacksonville, 508 U.S.
656, 666 (1993). Under ICWA’s hierarchy of preferences,
non-Indian parents are generally last in line for potential
placements. According to petitioners, this “erects a barrier
that makes it more difficult for members of one group to obtain a
benefit than it is for members of another group.”
Ibid.; see also Turner v. Fouche, 396 U.S.
346, 362 (1970) (the Equal Protection Clause secures the right
of individuals “to be considered” for government
positions and benefits “without the burden of invidiously
discriminatory disqualifications”). The racial discrimination
they allege counts as an Article III injury.[9]

															But the individual petitioners have not shown
that this injury is “likely” to be “redressed by
judicial relief.” TransUnion LLC v.
Ramirez, 594 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 7).
They seek an injunction preventing the federal parties from
enforcing ICWA and a declaratory judgment that the challenged
provisions are unconstitutional. Yet enjoining the federal parties
would not remedy the alleged injury, because state courts apply the
placement preferences, and state agencies carry out the
court-ordered placements. §§1903(1), 1915(a), (b); see
also Brief for Individual Petitioners 63 (“There is no
federal official who administers ICWA or carries out its
mandates”). The state officials who implement ICWA are
“not parties to the suit, and there is no reason they should
be obliged to honor an incidental legal determination the suit
produced.” Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife,
504 U.S.
555, 569 (1992) (plurality opinion). So an injunction would not
give petitioners legally enforceable protection from the allegedly
imminent harm.

															Petitioners’ request for a declaratory
judgment suffers from the same flaw. See Skelly Oil Co. v.
Phillips Petroleum Co., 339 U.S.
667, 671–672 (1950). This form of relief conclusively
resolves “ ‘the legal rights of the
parties.’ ” Medtronic, Inc. v.
Mirowski Family Ventures, LLC, 571 U.S.
191, 200 (2014) (emphasis added). But again, state officials
are nonparties who would not be bound by the judgment.
Taylor v. Sturgell, 553 U.S.
880, 892–893 (2008). Thus, the equal protection issue
would not be settled between petitioners and the officials who
matter—which would leave the declaratory judgment powerless
to remedy the alleged harm. 994 F. 3d, at 448 (Costa, J.,
concurring in part and dissenting in part) (“What saves
proper declaratory judgments from a redressability
problem—but is lacking here—is that they have
preclusive effect on a traditional lawsuit that is
imminent”). After all, the point of a declaratory judgment
“is to establish a binding adjudication that enables the
parties to enjoy the benefits of reliance and repose secured by res
judicata.” 18A C. Wright, A. Miller, & E. Cooper, Federal
Practice and Procedure §4446 (3d ed. Supp. 2022). Without
preclusive effect, a declaratory judgment is little more than an
advisory opinion. Ibid.; see Public Serv. Comm’n of
Utah v. Wycoff Co., 344 U.S.
237, 242–243 (1952).

															The individual petitioners do not
dispute—or even address—any of this. Instead, they
insist that state courts are likely to defer to a federal
court’s interpretation of federal law, thus giving rise to a
substantial likelihood that a favorable judgment will redress their
injury. Brief in Opposition for Individual Respondents 19–20;
Reply Brief for Individual Petitioners 29. They point out that, in
the Brackeens’ ongoing efforts to adopt Y. R. J.,
the trial court stated that it would follow the federal
court’s ruling on the Brackeens’ constitutional claims.
Ibid. Thus, they reason, winning this case would solve their
problems.

															But “[r]edressability requires that the
court be able to afford relief through the exercise of its
power, not through the persuasive or even awe-inspiring effect
of the opinion explaining the exercise of its power.”
Franklin v. Massachusetts, 505
U.S. 788, 825 (1992) (Scalia, J., concurring in part and
concurring in judgment) (emphasis in original); see also United
States v. Juvenile Male, 564 U.S.
932, 937 (2011) (per curiam) (a judgment’s
“possible, indirect benefit in a future lawsuit” does
not preserve standing). Otherwise, redressability would be
satisfied whenever a decision might persuade actors who are not
before the court—contrary to Article III’s strict
prohibition on “issuing advisory opinions.”
Carney v. Adams, 592 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip
op., at 4). It is a federal court’s judgment, not its
opinion, that remedies an injury; thus it is the judgment, not the
opinion, that demonstrates redressability. The individual
petitioners can hope for nothing more than an opinion, so they
cannot satisfy Article III.[10]

															B

															Texas also lacks standing to challenge the
placement preferences. It has no equal protection rights of its
own, South Carolina v. Katzenbach, 383 U.S.
301, 323 (1966), and it cannot assert equal protection claims
on behalf of its citizens because “[a] State does not have
standing as parens patriae to bring an action against the
Federal Government,” Alfred L. Snapp & Son,
Inc. v. Puerto Rico ex rel. Barez, 458 U.S.
592, 610, n. 16 (1982).[11] That should make the issue open and shut.

															Yet Texas advances a few creative arguments for
why it has standing despite these settled rules. It leads with what
one might call an “unclean hands” injury: ICWA
“injures Texas by requiring it to break its promise to its
citizens that it will be colorblind in child-custody
proceedings.” Reply Brief for Texas 15; id., at 14
(“ICWA forces Texas to violate its own constitutional
obligations”). This is not the kind of “concrete”
and “particularized” “invasion of a legally
protected interest” necessary to demonstrate an
“ ‘injury in fact.’ ”
Lujan, 504 U. S., at 560. Were it otherwise, a State
would always have standing to bring constitutional challenges when
it is complicit in enforcing federal law. Texas tries to finesse
this problem by characterizing ICWA as a “fiscal trap,”
forcing it to discriminate against its citizens or lose federal
funds. Brief for Petitioner Texas 39–40. But ICWA is not a
Spending Clause statute—Texas bases this argument on a vague
reference to a different Spending Clause statute that it
does not challenge. And Texas has not established that those funds,
which the State has accepted for years, are conditioned on
compliance with the placement preferences anyway. See 42
U. S. C. §622; Brief for Federal Parties 49,
n. 6.

															Texas also claims a direct pocketbook injury
associated with the costs of keeping records, providing notice in
involuntary proceedings, and producing expert testimony before
moving a child to foster care or terminating parental rights. Reply
Brief for Texas 13–14. But these alleged costs are not
“fairly traceable” to the placement preferences, which
“operate independently” of the provisions Texas
identifies. California, 593 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at
15). The provisions do not rise or fall together; proving that the
placement preferences are unconstitutional “would not show
that enforcement of any of these other provisions violates the
Constitution.” Ibid. In other words, Texas would
continue to incur the complained-of costs even if it were relieved
of the duty to apply the placement preferences. The former, then,
cannot justify a challenge to the latter.

															Because Texas is not injured by the placement
preferences, neither would it be injured by a tribal resolution
that altered those preferences pursuant to §1915(c). Texas
therefore does not have standing to bring either its equal
protection or its nondelegation claims.[12]

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, we affirm the judgment of
the Court of Appeals regarding Congress’s constitutional
authority to enact ICWA. On the anticommandeering claims, we
reverse. On the equal protection and nondelegation claims, we
vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand with
instructions to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction.

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 Petitioners raised
several other challenges that are not before this Court, including
that ICWA’s implementing regulations are arbitrary and
capricious in violation of the Administrative Procedure
Act.
2
 Hernandez and the
families, the State of Texas, the federal parties, and the Tribes
all filed cross-petitions for certiorari. After the cases were
consolidated, Hernandez, the families, and Texas proceeded as
petitioners before this Court, and the federal parties and the
Tribes proceeded as respondents.
3
 Justice Alito’s
dissent criticizes the Court for “violating one of the most
basic laws of logic” with our conclusion that
“Congress’s power over Indian affairs is
‘plenary’ but not ‘absolute.’ ”
Post, at 3–4. Yet the dissent goes on to make that
very same observation. Post, at 4 (“[E]ven so-called
plenary powers cannot override foundational constitutional
constraints”).
4
 Texas floated a theory
for the first time at oral argument. It saidthat, taken together,
our plenary power cases fall into three buckets: (1) those allowing
Congress to legislate pursuant to an enumerated power, such as the
Indian Commerce Clause or the Treaty Clause; (2) those allowing
Congress to regulate the tribes as government entities; and (3)
those allowing Congress to enact legislation that applies to
federal or tribal land. Tr. of Oral Arg. 55. According to Texas,
ICWA is unconstitutional because it does not fall within any of
these categories. We have never broken down our cases this way. But
even if Texas’s theory is descriptively accurate, Texas
offers no explanation for why Congress’s power is
limited to these categories.
5
 All petitioners argue
that these provisions violate the anticommandeering principle.
Since Texas has standing to raise these claims, we need not address
whether the individual petitioners also have standing to do
so.
6
 To bolster their claim
that the “active efforts” requirement is aimed at the
States, petitioners point to a statement from the Department of the
Interior asserting that the reference to “active
efforts” reflects Congress’s intent “to require
States to affirmatively provide Indian families with
substantive services and not merely make the services
available.” 81 Fed. Reg. 38791 (emphasis added). This
statement does not move the needle. Neither §1912(d) nor the
regulations limit themselves to States; moreover, the regulations
plainly contemplate that services will come from private
organizations as well as the government. 25 CFR §23.102
(“Agency means a nonprofit, for-profit, or governmental
organization . . . that performs, or provides services to
biological parents, foster parents, or adoptive parents to assist
in the administrative and social work necessary for foster,
preadoptive, or adoptive placements”). The Department’s
statement is thus consistent with the plain language of §1912,
which applies to both private and state actors.
7
 Though §1915(e) does
not specify that the records be retained by state courts, as
opposed to state agencies, context makes clear that a “record
of each such placement” refers to the state court’s
placement determination. See Mississippi Band of Choctaw
Indians v. Holyfield, 490 U.S.
30, 40, n. 13 (1989). True, the provision leaves it up to
the State whether to keep the records with a court or agency. See
25 CFR §23.141(c) (“The State court or agency should
notify the BIA whether these records are maintained within the
court system or by a State agency”). But allowingthe State to
make that choice does not transform the documents into something
other than a court record.
8
 Printz noted
uncertainty about whether the naturalization laws applied only to
States that voluntarily “authorized their courts to conduct
naturalization proceedings.” 521 U. S., at
905–906. But on their face, these statutes did not require
state consent. See Act of Mar. 26, 1790, ch. 3, §1, 1Stat. 103
(providing that an alien could apply for citizenship “to any
common law court of record, in any one of the states wherein he
shall have resided for the term of one year at least”); Act
of Apr. 14, 1802, ch. 28, 2Stat. 153 (referring to “the
supreme, superior, district or circuit court of some one of the
states, or of the territorial districts of the United States, or a
circuit or district court of the United States”). And as
Printz recognized, this Court has never held that consent is
required. 521 U. S., at 905–906; see Holmgren v.
United States, 217 U.S.
509, 517 (1910) (holding that Congress could empower state
courts to conduct naturalization proceedings, but because
California had already authorized jurisdiction, reserving the
question whether its consent was necessary); but see United
States v. Jones, 109 U.S.
513, 520 (1883) (stating in dicta that the naturalization laws
“could not be enforced” in state court “against
the consent of the States”). In any event, while the
naturalization laws are certainly not conclusive evidence, they are
nonetheless relevant to discerning historical
practice.
9
 Respondents raise other
objections to the individual petitioners’ standing, including
that the alleged injury is speculative because it depends on future
proceedings to foster or adopt Indian children. Brief for Tribal
Defendants 46–50; Brief for Federal Parties 49–52.
Because we resolve the standing of all individual petitioners on
the ground of redressability, we do not address respondents’
other arguments.
10  Of
course, the individual petitioners can challenge ICWA’s
constitutionality in state court, as the Brackeens have done in
their adoption proceedings for Y. R. J. 994 F.3d 249, 294
(2021) (principal opinion of Dennis, J.).
11  Texas
claims that it can assert third-party standing on behalf of
non-Indian families. This argument is a thinly veiled attempt to
circumvent the limits on parens patriae standing. The case
on which Texas relies, Georgia v. McCollum, 505 U.S.
42 (1992), allowed a State to representjurors struck on the
basis of race, because (among other reasons) “[a]s the
representative of all its citizens, the State is the logical and
proper party to assert the invasion of the constitutional rights of
the excluded jurors in a criminal trial.” Id., at 56.
But McCollum was not a suit against the Federal Government;
moreover, it involved a “concrete injury” to the State
and “some hindrance to the third party’s ability to
protect its own interests,” neither of which is present here.
Id., at 55–56.
12  Although the individual petitioners
join Texas’s nondelegation challenge to §1915(c), they
raise no independent arguments about why they would have standing
to bring this claim. Brief for Individual Petitioners 41,
n. 6; Brief for Federal Parties 79, n. 14.


