::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-468
::decision_name::  National Pork Producers Council v. Ross
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–468

															_________________

															NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL, et al.,
PETITIONERS v. KAREN ROSS, in her official capacity as
SECRETARY OF THE CALI- FORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[May 11, 2023]

															

															Justice Kavanaugh, concurring in part and
dissenting in part.

															In today’s fractured decision, six
Justices of this Court affirmatively retain the longstanding
Pike balancing test for analyzing dormant Commerce Clause
challenges to state economic regulations. Ante, at 1
(Sotomayor, J., joined by Kagan, J., concurring in part);
ante, at 2–3 (Roberts, C. J., joined by Alito,
Kavanaugh, and Jackson, JJ., concurring in part and dissenting in
part); see Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., 397 U.S.
137 (1970). Although Parts IV–B and IV–D of Justice
Gorsuch’s opinion would essentially overrule the Pike
balancing test, those subsections are not controlling precedent, as
I understand it.

															But Part IV–C of Justice Gorsuch’s
opinion is controlling precedent for purposes of the Court’s
judgment as to the plaintiffs’ Pike claim. There, a
four-Justice plurality of the Court applies Pike and rejects
the plaintiffs’ dormant Commerce Clause challenge under
Pike. The plurality reasons that the plaintiffs’
complaint did not sufficiently allege that the California law at
issue here imposed a substantial burden on interstate commerce
under Pike. I respectfully disagree with that conclusion for
the reasons well stated in The Chief Justice’s separate
opinion.[1]

															I add this opinion to point out that state
economic regulations like California’s Proposition 12 may
raise questions not only under the Commerce Clause, but also under
the Import-Export Clause, the Privileges and Immunities Clause, and
the Full Faith and Credit Clause.

															I

															In the 1780s, the Framers in Philadelphia and
the people of the United States discarded the Articles of
Confederation and adopted a new Constitution. They did so in order
to, among other things, create a national economic market and
overcome state restrictions on free trade—and thereby promote
the general welfare. By the summer of 1787, when the delegates met
in Philadelphia, state interference with interstate commerce was
cutting off the lifeblood of the Nation. See Tennessee Wine and
Spirits Retailers Assn. v. Thomas, 588 U. S. ___,
___ (2019) (slip op., at 7). For the delegates, therefore,
“removing state trade barriers was a principal reason for the
adoption of the Constitution.” Ibid. In the state
ratifying conventions, moreover, “fostering free trade among
the States was prominently cited as a reason for
ratification.” Id., at ___ (slip op., at 8).

															The Constitution crafted by the Framers contains
several provisions protecting free trade among the States. The
Constitution’s protection of free trade among the States has
resulted in an extraordinary 234-year record of progress: It has
facilitated robust economic activity within the United States and
has helped generate remarkable (albeit at times uneven) economic
prosperity and growth in America relative to the other nations of
the world.

															This case involves the American pork industry,
which today is a $20 billion-plus industry that generates hundreds
of thousands of American jobs and serves millions of American
consumers. Importantly for this case, the vast majority of pig
farms are located in States other than California—such as
Iowa, Minnesota, Illinois, Indiana, and North Carolina. And the
vast majority of pork is likewise produced in States other than
California.

															In 2018, California voters nonetheless passed a
ballot initiative, Proposition 12, that not only regulates pig
farming and pork production in California, but also in effect
regulates pig farming and pork production throughout the United
States. Under Proposition 12, all pork sold to consumers in
California must be derived from pigs raised in compliance with
California’s strict standards for pig farming, including
California’s minimum square footage of space required for
housing individual pigs. By its terms, Proposition 12 applies to
pigs raised and pork produced outside California.

															California’s requirements for pig farms
and pork production depart significantly from common agricultural
practices that are lawful in major pig-farming and pork-producing
States such as Iowa, Minnesota, Illinois, Indiana, and North
Carolina. See Brief for Indiana et al. as Amici Curiae
24–32. Moreover, according to various amici, some of
the scientific literature suggests that California’s
requirements could worsen animal health and welfare. See,
e.g., Brief for American Association of Swine Veterinarians
as Amicus Curiae 4–19; Brief for State Pork Producers
Association of Iowa et al. as Amici Curiae 25–34.
Regardless of whether the amici are correct on that point,
it is evident that absent California’s Proposition 12,
relatively few pig farmers and pork producers in the United States
would follow the practices that California now demands. Yet
American pig farmers and pork producers have little choice but to
comply with California’s regulatory dictates. It would be
prohibitively expensive and practically all but impossible for pig
farmers and pork producers to segregate individual pigs based on
their ultimate marketplace destination in California or elsewhere.
And California’s 13-percent share of the consumer pork market
makes it economically infeasible for many pig farmers and pork
producers to exit the California market.

															California’s required changes to
pig-farming and pork-production practices throughout the United
States will cost American farmers and pork producers hundreds of
millions (if not billions) of dollars. And those costs for pig
farmers and pork producers will be passed on, in many cases, to
American consumers of pork via higher pork prices nationwide. The
increased costs may also result in lower wages and reduced benefits
(or layoffs) for the American workers who work on pig farms and in
meatpacking plants. See generally Brief for Indiana et al. as
Amici Curiae 29–32; Brief for North Carolina Chamber
Legal Institute et al. as Amici Curiae
9–13.[2]

															In short, through Proposition 12, California is
forcing massive changes to pig-farming and pork-production
practices throughout the United States. Proposition 12 therefore
substantially burdens the interstate pork market. See ante,
at 6–10 (opinion of Roberts, C. J.).

															Under the Constitution, Congress could enact a
national law imposing minimum space requirements or other
regulations on pig farms involved in the interstate pork market. In
the absence of action by Congress, each State may of course adopt
health and safety regulations for products sold in that
State. And each State may regulate as it sees fit with respect
to farming, manufacturing, and production practices in that
State. Through Proposition 12, however, California has tried
something quite different and unusual. It has attempted, in
essence, to unilaterally impose its moral and policy preferences
for pig farming and pork production on the rest of the Nation. It
has sought to deny market access to out-of-state pork producers
unless their farming and production practices in those other States
comply with California’s dictates. The State has aggressively
propounded a “California knows best” economic
philosophy—where California in effect seeks to regulate pig
farming and pork production in all of the United States.
California’s approach undermines federalism and the authority
of individual States by forcing individuals and businesses in one
State to conduct their farming, manufacturing, and production
practices in a manner required by the laws of a different
State.

															Notably, future state laws of this kind might
not be confined to the pork industry. As the amici brief of
26 States points out, what if a state law prohibits the sale of
fruit picked by noncitizens who are unlawfully in the country?
Brief for Indiana et al. as Amici Curiae 33. What if a
state law prohibits the sale of goods produced by workers paid less
than $20 per hour? Or as those States suggest, what if a state law
prohibits “the retail sale of goods from producers that do
not pay for employees’ birth control or abortions” (or
alternatively, that do pay for employees’ birth control or
abortions)? Ibid.

															If upheld against all constitutional challenges,
California’s novel and far-reaching regulation could provide
a blueprint for other States. California’s law thus may
foreshadow a new era where States shutter their markets to goods
produced in a way that offends their moral or policy
preferences—and in doing so, effectively force other States
to regulate in accordance with those idiosyncratic state demands.
That is not the Constitution the Framers adopted in Philadelphia in
1787.[3]

															II

															Thus far, legal challenges to
California’s Proposition 12 have focused on the Commerce
Clause and this Court’s dormant Commerce Clause
precedents.

															Although the Court today rejects the
plaintiffs’ dormant Commerce Clause challenge as
insufficiently pled, state laws like Proposition 12 implicate not
only the Commerce Clause, but also potentially several other
constitutional provisions, including the Import-Export Clause, the
Privileges and Immunities Clause, and the Full Faith and Credit
Clause.

															First, the Import-Export Clause prohibits
any State, absent “the Consent of the Congress,” from
imposing “any Imposts or Duties on Imports or Exports, except
what may be absolutely necessary for executing” its
“inspection Laws.” Art. I, §10, cl. 2. This
Court has limited that Clause to imports from foreign
countries. See Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wall. 123,
133–136 (1869). As Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas have
explained, that limitation may be mistaken as a matter of
constitutional text and history: Properly interpreted, the
Import-Export Clause may also prevent States “from imposing
certain especially burdensome” taxes and duties on imports
from other States—not just on imports from foreign countries.
Comptroller of Treasury of Md. v. Wynne, 575 U.S.
542, 573 (2015) (Scalia, J., dissenting); see also Camps
Newfound/Owatonna, Inc. v. Town of Harrison,
520 U.S.
564, 621–637 (1997) (Thomas, J., dissenting);
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 438−439, 449
(1827).

															In other words, if one State conditions sale of
a good on the use of preferred farming, manufacturing, or
production practices in another State where the good was grown or
made, serious questions may arise under the Import-Export Clause. I
do not take a position here on whether such an argument ultimately
would prevail. I note only that the question warrants additional
consideration in a future case.

															Second, the Privileges and Immunities
Clause provides that the “Citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the
several States.” Art. IV, §2, cl. 1; see
South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc., 585 U. S. ___,
___–___ (2018) (Gorsuch, J., concurring) (slip op., at
1–2); see also Tyler Pipe Industries, Inc. v.
Washington State Dept. of Revenue, 483
U.S. 232, 265 (1987) (Scalia, J., concurring in part and
dissenting in part); J. Eule, Laying the Dormant Commerce Clause To
Rest, 91 Yale L. J. 425, 446−448 (1982). Under this
Court’s precedents, one State’s efforts to effectively
regulate farming, manufacturing, or production in other States
could raise significant questions under that Clause. Again, I
express no view on whether such an argument ultimately would
prevail. But the issue warrants further analysis in a future
case.

															Third, the Full Faith and Credit Clause
requires each State to afford “Full Faith and Credit”
to the “public Acts” of “every other
State.” Art. IV, §1. That Clause prevents States
from “adopting any policy of hostility to the public
Acts” of another State. Carroll v. Lanza,
349 U.S.
408, 413 (1955). A State’s effort to regulate farming,
manufacturing, and production practices in another State (in a
manner different from how that other State’s laws regulate
those practices) could in some circumstances raise questions under
that Clause. See, e.g., M. Rosen, State Extraterritorial
Powers Reconsidered, 85 Notre Dame L. Rev. 1133, 1153
(2010) (“[T]he Full Faith and Credit Clause is the more
natural source for limitations on state extraterritorial powers
because that clause at its core is concerned with
extraterritoriality”); see also D. Laycock, Equal Citizens of
Equal and Territorial States: The Constitutional Foundations of
Choice of Law, 92 Colum. L. Rev. 249, 290, 296−301
(1992).

															For example, the plaintiffs in this case say
that Ohio law expressly authorizes pig farmers in Ohio to do
precisely what California’s Proposition 12 forbids. Brief for
Petitioners 30–31; see Ohio Admin. Code
§§901:12−8−02(G)(4), (5) (2011). If so, the
Full Faith and Credit Clause might preclude California from
enacting conflicting regulations on Ohio pig farmers.

															Once again, I express no view on whether such an
argument ultimately would succeed. But the question deserves
further examination in a future case.

															*  *  *

															As I understand it, the controlling plurality
of the Court (reflected in Part IV–C of Justice
Gorsuch’s opinion) today rejects the plaintiffs’
dormant Commerce Clause challenge on the ground that the
plaintiffs’ complaint does not sufficiently allege that the
California law at issue here imposes a substantial burden on
interstate commerce under Pike. See ante, at
21–25 (plurality opinion); ante, at 1–3 (opinion
of Sotomayor, J.). It appears, therefore, that properly pled
dormant Commerce Clause challenges under Pike to laws like
California’s Proposition 12 (or even to Proposition 12
itself) could succeed in the future—or at least survive past
the motion-to-dismiss stage. Regardless, it will be important in
future cases to consider that state laws like Proposition 12 also
may raise substantial constitutional questions under the
Import-Export Clause, the Privileges and Immunities Clause, and the
Full Faith and Credit Clause.

Notes
1
 The Court also
unanimously rejects plaintiffs’ separate claim under
Healy v. Beer Institute, 491
U.S. 324 (1989).
2
 The majority opinion
dismisses this case as not presenting a “weighty”
issue. Ante, at 2. That phrasing is misplaced. This case
presents a weighty constitutional question, as the Framers surely
would have recognized. And it is important for the American
workers, farmers, and consumers who will be significantly affected
by the outcome of today’s decision.
3
 The portions of Justice
Gorsuch’s opinion that speak for only three Justices (Parts
IV–B and IV–D) refer to The Chief Justice’s
opinion as a “dissent.” Ante, at 18–21,
25–27. But on the question of whether to retain the
Pike balancing test in cases like this one, The Chief
Justice’s opinion reflects the majority view because six
Justices agree to retain the Pike balancing test: The Chief
Justice and Justices Alito, Sotomayor, Kagan, Kavanaugh, and
Jackson. On that legal issue, Justice Gorsuch’s opinion
advances a minority view.


