::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-061
::decision_cite:: 21-418
::decision_name::  Kennedy v. Bremerton School District
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–418

															_________________

															JOSEPH A. KENNEDY, PETITIONER v.
BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 27, 2022]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Breyer
and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															This case is about whether a public school must
permit a school official to kneel, bow his head, and say a prayer
at the center of a school event. The Constitution does not
authorize, let alone require, public schools to embrace this
conduct. Since Engel v. Vitale, 370 U.S.
421 (1962), this Court consistently has recognized that school
officials leading prayer is constitutionally impermissible.
Official-led prayer strikes at the core of our constitutional
protections for the religious liberty of students and their
parents, as embodied in both the Establishment Clause and the Free
Exercise Clause of the First Amendment.

															The Court now charts a different path, yet again
paying almost exclusive attention to the Free Exercise
Clause’s protection for individual religious exercise while
giving short shrift to the Establishment Clause’s prohibition
on state establishment of religion. See Carson v.
Makin, 596 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (Breyer, J.,
dissenting) (slip op., at 1). To the degree the Court portrays
petitioner Joseph Kennedy’s prayers as private and quiet, it
misconstrues the facts. The record reveals that Kennedy had a
longstanding practice of conducting demonstrative prayers on the
50-yard line of the football field. Kennedy consistently invited
others to join his prayers and for years led student athletes in
prayer at the same time and location. The Court ignores this
history. The Court also ignores the severe disruption to school
events caused by Kennedy’s conduct, viewing it as irrelevant
because the Bremerton School District (District) stated that it was
suspending Kennedy to avoid it being viewed as endorsing religion.
Under the Court’s analysis, presumably this would be a
different case if the District had cited Kennedy’s repeated
disruptions of school programming and violations of school policy
regarding public access to the field as grounds for suspending him.
As the District did not articulate those grounds, the Court
assesses only the District’s Establishment Clause concerns.
It errs by assessing them divorced from the context and history of
Kennedy’s prayer practice.

															Today’s decision goes beyond merely
misreading the record. The Court overrules Lemon v.
Kurtzman, 403
U.S. 602 (1971), and calls into question decades of subsequent
precedents that it deems “offshoot[s]” of that
decision. Ante, at 22. In the process, the Court rejects
longstanding concerns surrounding government endorsement of
religion and replaces the standard for reviewing such questions
with a new “history and tradition” test. In addition,
while the Court reaffirms that the Establishment Clause prohibits
the government from coercing participation in religious exercise,
it applies a nearly toothless version of the coercion analysis,
failing to acknowledge the unique pressures faced by students when
participating in school-sponsored activities. This decision does a
disservice to schools and the young citizens they serve, as well as
to our Nation’s longstanding commitment to the separation of
church and state. I respectfully dissent.

															I

															As the majority tells it, Kennedy, a coach for
the District’s football program, “lost his job”
for “pray[ing] quietly while his students were otherwise
occupied.” Ante, at 1. The record before us, however,
tells a different story.

															A

															The District serves approximately 5,057
students and employs 332 teachers and 400 nonteaching personnel in
Kitsap County, Washington. The county is home to
Bahá’ís, Buddhists, Hindus, Jews, Muslims,
Sikhs, Zoroastrians, and many denominations of Christians, as well
as numerous residents who are religiously unaffiliated. See Brief
for Religious and Denominational Organizations et al. as
Amici Curiae 4.

															The District first hired Kennedy in 2008, on a
renewable annual contract, to serve as a part-time assistant coach
for the varsity football team and head coach for the junior varsity
team at Bremerton High School (BHS). Kennedy’s job
description required him to “[a]ccompany and direct”
all home and out-of-town games to which he was assigned, overseeing
preparation and transportation before games, being
“[r]esponsible for player behavior both on and off the
field,” supervising dressing rooms, and “secur[ing] all
facilities at the close of each practice.” App. 32–34,
36. His duties encompassed “supervising student activities
immediately following the completion of the game” until the
students were released to their parents or otherwise allowed to
leave. Id., at 133.

															The District also set requirements for
Kennedy’s interactions with players, obliging him, like all
coaches, to “exhibit sportsmanlike conduct at all
times,” “utilize positive motivational strategies to
encourage athletic performance,” and serve as a “mentor
and role model for the student athletes.” Id., at 56.
In addition, Kennedy’s position made him responsible for
interacting with members of the community. In this capacity, the
District required Kennedy and other coaches to “maintain
positive media relations,” “always approach officials
with composure” with the expectation that they were
“constantly being observed by others,” and
“communicate effectively” with parents.
Ibid.

															Finally, District coaches had to “[a]dhere
to [District] policies and administrative regulations” more
generally. Id., at 30–31. As relevant here, the
District’s policy on “Religious-Related Activities and
Practices” provided that “[s]chool staff shall neither
encourage or discourage a student from engaging in non-disruptive
oral or silent prayer or any other form of devotional
activity” and that “[r]eligious services, programs or
assemblies shall not be conducted in school facilities during
school hours or in connection with any school sponsored or school
related activity.” Id., at 26–28.

															B

															In September 2015, a coach from another
school’s football team informed BHS’ principal that
Kennedy had asked him and his team to join Kennedy in prayer. The
other team’s coach told the principal that he thought it was
“ ‘cool’ ” that the District
“ ‘would allow [its] coaches to go ahead and
invite other teams’ coaches and players to pray after a
game.’ ” Id., at 229.

															The District initiated an inquiry into whether
its policy on Religious-Related Activities and Practices had been
violated. It learned that, since his hiring in 2008, Kennedy had
been kneeling on the 50-yard line to pray immediately after shaking
hands with the opposing team. Kennedy recounted that he initially
prayed alone and that he never asked any student to join him. Over
time, however, a majority of the team came to join him, with the
numbers varying from game to game. Kennedy’s practice evolved
into postgame talks in which Kennedy would hold aloft student
helmets and deliver speeches with “overtly religious
references,” which Kennedy described as prayers, while the
players kneeled around him. Id., at 40. The District also
learned that students had prayed in the past in the locker room
prior to games, before Kennedy was hired, but that Kennedy
subsequently began leading those prayers too.

															While the District’s inquiry was pending,
its athletic director attended BHS’ September 11, 2015,
football game and told Kennedy that he should not be conducting
prayers with players. After the game, while the athletic director
watched, Kennedy led a prayer out loud, holding up a player’s
helmet as the players kneeled around him. While riding the bus home
with the team, Kennedy posted on Facebook that he thought he might
have just been fired for praying.

															On September 17, the District’s
superintendent sent Kennedy a letter informing him that leading
prayers with students on the field and in the locker room would
likely be found to violate the Establishment Clause, exposing the
District to legal liability. The District acknowledged that Kennedy
had “not actively encouraged, or required,
participation” but emphasized that “school staff may
not indirectly encourage students to engage in religious
activity” or “endors[e]” religious activity;
rather, the District explained, staff “must remain
neutral” “while performing their job duties.”
Id., at 41–43. The District instructed Kennedy that
any motivational talks to students must remain secular, “so
as to avoid alienation of any team member.” Id., at
44.

															The District reiterated that “all District
staff are free to engage in religious activity, including prayer,
so long as it does not interfere with job responsibilities.”
Id., at 45. To avoid endorsing student religious exercise,
the District instructed that such activity must be nondemonstrative
or conducted separately from students, away from student
activities. Ibid. The District expressed concern that
Kennedy had continued his midfield prayer practice at two games
after the District’s athletic director and the varsity
team’s head coach had instructed him to stop. Id., at
40–41.

															Kennedy stopped participating in locker room
prayers and, after a game the following day, gave a secular speech.
He returned to pray in the stadium alone after his duties were over
and everyone had left the stadium, to which the District had no
objection. Kennedy then hired an attorney, who, on October 14, sent
a letter explaining that Kennedy was “motivated by his
sincerely-held religious beliefs to pray following each football
game.” Id., at 63. The letter claimed that the
District had required that Kennedy “flee from students if
they voluntarily choose to come to a place where he is privately
praying during personal time,” referring to the 50-yard line
of the football field immediately following the conclusion of a
game. Id., at 70. Kennedy requested that the District simply
issue a “clarif[ication] that the prayer is [Kennedy’s]
private speech” and that the District not
“interfere” with students joining Kennedy in prayer.
Id., at 71. The letter further announced that Kennedy would
resume his 50-yard-line prayer practice the next day after the
October 16 homecoming game.[1]

															Before the homecoming game, Kennedy made
multiple media appearances to publicize his plans to pray at the
50-yard line, leading to an article in the Seattle News and a local
television broadcast about the upcoming homecoming game. In the
wake of this media coverage, the District began receiving a large
number of emails, letters, and calls, many of them threatening.

															The District responded to Kennedy’s letter
before the game on October 16. It emphasized that Kennedy’s
letter evinced “materia[l] misunderstand[ings]” of many
of the facts at issue. Id., at 76. For instance,
Kennedy’s letter asserted that he had not invited anyone to
pray with him; the District noted that that might be true of
Kennedy’s September 17 prayer specifically, but that Kennedy
had acknowledged inviting others to join him on many previous
occasions. The District’s September 17 letter had explained
that Kennedy traditionally held up helmets from the BHS and
opposing teams while players from each team kneeled around him.
While Kennedy’s letter asserted that his prayers
“occurr[ed] ‘on his own time,’ after his duties
as a District employee had ceased,” the District pointed out
that Kennedy “remain[ed] on duty” when his prayers
occurred “immediately following completion of the football
game, when students are still on the football field, in uniform,
under the stadium lights, with the audience still in attendance,
and while Mr. Kennedy is still in his District-issued and
District-logoed attire.” Id., at 78 (emphasis
deleted). The District further noted that “[d]uring the time
following completion of the game, until players are released to
their parents or otherwise allowed to leave the event, Mr. Kennedy,
like all coaches, is clearly on duty and paid to continue
supervision of students.” Id., at 79.

															The District stated that it had no objection to
Kennedy returning to the stadium when he was off duty to pray at
the 50-yard line, nor with Kennedy praying while on duty if it did
not interfere with his job duties or suggest the District’s
endorsement of religion. The District explained that its
establishment concerns were motivated by the specific facts at
issue, because engaging in prayer on the 50-yard line immediately
after the game finished would appear to be an extension of
Kennedy’s “prior, long-standing and well-known history
of leading students in prayer” on the 50-yard line after
games. Id., at 81. The District therefore reaffirmed its
prior directives to Kennedy.

															On October 16, after playing of the game had
concluded, Kennedy shook hands with the opposing team, and as
advertised, knelt to pray while most BHS players were singing the
school’s fight song. He quickly was joined by coaches and
players from the opposing team. Television news cameras surrounded
the group.[2] Members of the
public rushed the field to join Kennedy, jumping fences to access
the field and knocking over student band members. After the game,
the District received calls from Satanists who
“ ‘intended to conduct ceremonies on the field
after football games if others were allowed to.’ ”
Id., at 181. To secure the field and enable subsequent games
to continue safely, the District was forced to make security
arrangements with the local police and to post signs near the field
and place robocalls to parents reiterating that the field was not
open to the public.

															The District sent Kennedy another letter on
October 23, explaining that his conduct at the October 16 game was
inconsistent with the District’s requirements for two
reasons. First, it “drew [him] away from [his] work”;
Kennedy had, “until recently, . . . regularly
c[o]me to the locker room with the team and other coaches following
the game” and had “specific responsibility for the
supervision of players in the locker room following games.”
Id., at 92–93. Second, his conduct raised
Establishment Clause concerns, because “any reasonable
observer saw a District employee, on the field only by virtue of
his employment with the District, still on duty, under the bright
lights of the stadium, engaged in what was clearly, given [his]
prior public conduct, overtly religious conduct.” Id.,
at 93.

															Again, the District emphasized that it was happy
to accommodate Kennedy’s desire to pray on the job in a way
that did not interfere with his duties or risk perceptions of
endorsement. Stressing that “[d]evelopment of accommodations
is an interactive process,” it invited Kennedy to reach out
to discuss accommodations that might be mutually satisfactory,
offering proposed accommodations and inviting Kennedy to raise
others. Id., at 93–94. The District noted, however,
that “further violations of [its] directives” would be
grounds for discipline or termination. Id., at 95.

															Kennedy did not directly respond or suggest a
satisfactory accommodation. Instead, his attorneys told the media
that he would accept only demonstrative prayer on the 50-yard line
immediately after games. During the October 23 and October 26
games, Kennedy again prayed at the 50-yard line immediately
following the game, while postgame activities were still ongoing.
At the October 23 game, Kennedy kneeled on the field alone with
players standing nearby. At the October 26 game, Kennedy prayed
surrounded by members of the public, including state
representatives who attended the game to support Kennedy. The BHS
players, after singing the fight song, joined Kennedy at midfield
after he stood up from praying.

															In an October 28 letter, the District notified
Kennedy that it was placing him on paid administrative leave for
violating its directives at the October 16, October 23, and October
26 games by kneeling on the field and praying immediately following
the games before rejoining the players for postgame talks. The
District recounted that it had offered accommodations to, and
offered to engage in further discussions with, Kennedy to permit
his religious exercise, and that Kennedy had failed to respond to
these offers. The District stressed that it remained willing to
discuss possible accommodations if Kennedy was willing.

															After the issues with Kennedy arose, several
parents reached out to the District saying that their children had
participated in Kennedy’s prayers solely to avoid separating
themselves from the rest of the team. No BHS students appeared to
pray on the field after Kennedy’s suspension.

															In Kennedy’s annual review, the head coach
of the varsity team recommended Kennedy not be rehired because he
“failed to follow district policy,” “demonstrated
a lack of cooperation with administration,”
“contributed to negative relations between parents, students,
community members, coaches, and the school district,” and
“failed to supervise student-athletes after games due to his
interactions with media and community” members. Id.,
at 114. The head coach himself also resigned after 11 years in that
position, expressing fears that he or his staff would be shot from
the crowd or otherwise attacked because of the turmoil created by
Kennedy’s media appearances. Three of five other assistant
coaches did not reapply.

															C

															Kennedy then filed suit. He contended, as
relevant, that the District violated his rights under the Free
Speech and Free Exercise Clauses of the First Amendment. Kennedy
moved for a preliminary injunction, which the District Court denied
based on the circumstances surrounding Kennedy’s prayers. The
court concluded that Kennedy had “chose[n] a time and
event,” the October 16 homecoming game, that was “a big
deal” for students, and then “used that opportunity to
convey his religious views” in a manner a reasonable observer
would have seen as a “public employee . . . leading
an orchestrated session of faith.” App. to Pet. for Cert.
303. The Court of Appeals affirmed, again emphasizing the specific
context of Kennedy’s prayers. The court rejected
Kennedy’s contention that he had been “praying on the
fifty-yard line ‘silently and alone.’ ”
Kennedy v. Bremerton School Dist., 869 F.3d 813, 825
(CA9 2017). The court noted that he had in fact refused “an
accommodation permitting him to pray . . . after the
stadium had emptied,” “indicat[ing] that it is
essential that his speech be delivered in the presence of students
and spectators.” Ibid. This Court denied
certiorari.

															Following discovery, the District Court granted
summary judgment to the District. The court concluded that
Kennedy’s 50-yard-line prayers were not entitled to
protection under the Free Speech Clause because his speech was made
in his capacity as a public employee, not as a private citizen. 443
F. Supp. 3d 1223, 1237 (WD Wash. 2020). In addition, the court held
that Kennedy’s prayer practice violated the Establishment
Clause, reasoning that “speech from the center of the
football field immediately after each game . . . conveys
official sanction.” Id., at 1238. That was especially
true where Kennedy, a school employee, initiated the prayer;
Kennedy was “joined by students or adults to create a group
of worshippers in a place the school controls access to”; and
Kennedy had a long “history of engaging in religious activity
with players” that would have led a familiar observer to
believe that Kennedy was “continuing this tradition”
with prayer at the 50-yard line. Id., at 1238–1239.
The District Court further found that players had reported
“feeling compelled to join Kennedy in prayer to stay
connected with the team or ensure playing time,” and that the
“slow accumulation of players joining Kennedy suggests
exactly the type of vulnerability to social pressure that makes the
Establishment Clause vital in the high school context.”
Id., at 1239. The court rejected Kennedy’s free
exercise claim, finding the District’s directive narrowly
tailored to its Establishment Clause concerns and citing
Kennedy’s refusal to cooperate in finding an accommodation
that would be acceptable to him. Id., at 1240.

															The Court of Appeals affirmed, explaining that
“the facts in the record utterly belie [Kennedy’s]
contention that the prayer was personal and private.” 991
F.3d 1004, 1017 (CA9 2021). The court instead concluded that
Kennedy’s speech constituted government speech, as he
“repeatedly acknowledged that—and behaved as
if—he was a mentor, motivational speaker, and role model to
students specifically at the conclusion of the game.”
Id., at 1015 (emphasis deleted). In the alternative, the
court concluded that Kennedy’s speech, even if in his
capacity as a private citizen, was appropriately regulated by the
District to avoid an Establishment Clause violation, emphasizing
once more that this conclusion was tied to the specific
“evolution of Kennedy’s prayer practice with
students” over time. Id., at 1018. The court rejected
Kennedy’s free exercise claim for the reasons stated by the
District Court. Id., at 1020. The Court of Appeals denied
rehearing en banc, and this Court granted certiorari.

															II

															Properly understood, this case is not about
the limits on an individual’s ability to engage in private
prayer at work. This case is about whether a school district is
required to allow one of its employees to incorporate a public,
communicative display of the employee’s personal religious
beliefs into a school event, where that display is recognizable as
part of a longstanding practice of the employee ministering
religion to students as the public watched. A school district is
not required to permit such conduct; in fact, the Establishment
Clause prohibits it from doing so.

															A

															The Establishment Clause prohibits States from
adopting laws “respecting an establishment of
religion.” Amdt. 1; see Wallace v. Jaffree,
472 U.S.
38, 49 (1985) (recognizing the Clause’s incorporation
against the States). The First Amendment’s next Clause
prohibits the government from making any law “prohibiting the
free exercise thereof.” Taken together, these two Clauses
(the Religion Clauses) express the view, foundational to our
constitutional system, “that religious beliefs and religious
expression are too precious to be either proscribed or prescribed
by the State.” Lee v. Weisman, 505
U.S. 577, 589 (1992). Instead, “preservation and
transmission of religious beliefs and worship is a responsibility
and a choice committed to the private sphere,” which has the
“freedom to pursue that mission.” Ibid.

															The Establishment Clause protects this freedom
by “command[ing] a separation of church and state.”
Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U.S.
709, 719 (2005). At its core, this means forbidding
“sponsorship, financial support, and active involvement of
the sovereign in religious activity.” Walz v. Tax
Comm’n of City of New York, 397 U.S.
664, 668 (1970). In the context of public schools, it means
that a State cannot use “its public school system to aid any
or all religious faiths or sects in the dissemination of their
doctrines and ideals.” Illinois ex rel. McCollum v.
Board of Ed. of School Dist. No. 71, Champaign Cty.,
333 U.S.
203, 211 (1948).

															Indeed, “[t]he Court has been particularly
vigilant in monitoring compliance with the Establishment Clause in
elementary and secondary schools.” Edwards v.
Aguillard, 482 U.S.
578, 583–584 (1987). The reasons motivating this
vigilance inhere in the nature of schools themselves and the young
people they serve. Two are relevant here.

															First, government neutrality toward religion is
particularly important in the public school context given the role
public schools play in our society. “ ‘The public
school is at once the symbol of our democracy and the most
pervasive means for promoting our common
destiny,’ ” meaning that “ ‘[i]n
no activity of the State is it more vital to keep out divisive
forces than in its schools.’ ” Id. at 584.
Families “entrust public schools with the education of their
children . . . on the understanding that the classroom
will not purposely be used to advance religious views that may
conflict with the private beliefs of the student and his or her
family.” Ibid. Accordingly, the Establishment Clause
“proscribes public schools from ‘conveying or
attempting to convey a message that religion or a particular
religious belief is favored or preferred’ ” or
otherwise endorsing religious beliefs. Lee, 505 U. S.,
at 604–605 (Blackmun, J., concurring) (emphasis deleted).

															Second, schools face a higher risk of
unconstitutionally “coerc[ing] . . . support or
participat[ion] in religion or its exercise” than other
government entities. Id., at 587 (opinion of the Court). The
State “exerts great authority and coercive power” in
schools as a general matter “through mandatory attendance
requirements.” Edwards, 482 U. S., at 584.
Moreover, the State exercises that great authority over children,
who are uniquely susceptible to “subtle coercive
pressure.” Lee, 505 U. S., at 588; cf. Town of
Greece v. Galloway, 572
U.S. 565, 590 (2014) (plurality opinion) (“[M]ature
adults,” unlike children, may not be
“ ‘readily susceptible to religious indoctrination
or peer pressure’ ”). Children are particularly
vulnerable to coercion because of their “emulation of
teachers as role models” and “susceptibility to peer
pressure.” Edwards, 482 U. S., at 584.
Accordingly, this Court has emphasized that “the State may
not, consistent with the Establishment Clause, place primary and
secondary school children” in the dilemma of choosing between
“participating, with all that implies, or protesting” a
religious exercise in a public school. Lee, 505 U. S.,
at 593.

															Given the twin Establishment Clause concerns of
endorsement and coercion, it is unsurprising that the Court has
consistently held integrating prayer into public school activities
to be unconstitutional, including when student participation is not
a formal requirement or prayer is silent. See Wallace,
472 U.S.
38 (mandatory moment of silence for prayer); School Dist. of
Abington Township v. Schempp, 374
U.S. 203 (1963) (nonmandatory recitation of Bible verses and
prayer); Engel, 370 U. S., at 424 (nonmandatory
recitation of one-sentence prayer). The Court also has held that
incorporating a nondenominational general benediction into a
graduation ceremony is unconstitutional. Lee, 505 U.S.
577. Finally, this Court has held that including prayers in
student football games is unconstitutional, even when delivered by
students rather than staff and even when students themselves
initiated the prayer. Santa Fe Independent School Dist.
v. Doe, 530 U.S.
290 (2000).

															B

															Under these precedents, the Establishment
Clause violation at hand is clear. This Court has held that a
“[s]tate officia[l] direct[ing] the performance of a formal
religious exercise” as a part of the “ceremon[y]”
of a school event “conflicts with settled rules pertaining to
prayer exercises for students.” Lee, 505 U. S.,
at 586–587. Kennedy was on the job as a school official
“on government property” when he incorporated a public,
demonstrative prayer into “government-sponsored
school-related events” as a regularly scheduled feature of
those events. Santa Fe, 530 U. S., at 302.

															Kennedy’s tradition of a 50-yard line
prayer thus strikes at the heart of the Establishment
Clause’s concerns about endorsement. For students and
community members at the game, Coach Kennedy was the face and the
voice of the District during football games. The timing and
location Kennedy selected for his prayers were “clothed in
the traditional indicia of school sporting events.”
Id., at 308. Kennedy spoke from the playing field, which was
accessible only to students and school employees, not to the
general public. Although the football game itself had ended, the
football game events had not; Kennedy himself acknowledged that his
responsibilities continued until the players went home.
Kennedy’s postgame responsibilities were what placed Kennedy
on the 50-yard line in the first place; that was, after all, where
he met the opposing team to shake hands after the game. Permitting
a school coach to lead students and others he invited onto the
field in prayer at a predictable time after each game could only be
viewed as a postgame tradition occurring “with the approval
of the school administration.” Ibid.

															Kennedy’s prayer practice also implicated
the coercion concerns at the center of this Court’s
Establishment Clause jurisprudence. This Court has previously
recognized a heightened potential for coercion where school
officials are involved, as their “effort[s] to monitor prayer
will be perceived by the students as inducing a participation they
might otherwise reject.” Lee, 505 U. S., at 590.
The reasons for fearing this pressure are self-evident. This Court
has recognized that students face immense social pressure. Students
look up to their teachers and coaches as role models and seek their
approval. Students also depend on this approval for tangible
benefits. Players recognize that gaining the coach’s approval
may pay dividends small and large, from extra playing time to a
stronger letter of recommendation to additional support in college
athletic recruiting. In addition to these pressures to please their
coaches, this Court has recognized that players face “immense
social pressure” from their peers in the
“extracurricular event that is American high school
football.” Santa Fe, 530 U. S., at 311.

															The record before the Court bears this out. The
District Court found, in the evidentiary record, that some students
reported joining Kennedy’s prayer because they felt social
pressure to follow their coach and teammates. Kennedy told the
District that he began his prayers alone and that players followed
each other over time until a majority of the team joined him, an
evolution showing coercive pressure at work.

															Kennedy does not defend his longstanding
practice of leading the team in prayer out loud on the field as
they kneeled around him. Instead, he responds, and the Court
accepts, that his highly visible and demonstrative prayer at the
last three games before his suspension did not violate the
Establishment Clause because these prayers were quiet and thus
private. This Court’s precedents, however, do not permit
isolating government actions from their context in determining
whether they violate the Establishment Clause. To the contrary,
this Court has repeatedly stated that Establishment Clause
inquiries are fact specific and require careful consideration of
the origins and practical reality of the specific practice at
issue. See, e.g., id., at 315; Lee, 505
U. S., at 597. In Santa Fe, the Court specifically
addressed how to determine whether the implementation of a new
policy regarding prayers at football games “insulates the
continuation of such prayers from constitutional scrutiny.”
530 U. S., at 315. The Court held that “inquiry into
this question not only can, but must, include an examination of the
circumstances surrounding” the change in policy, the
“long-established tradition” before the change, and the
“ ‘unique circumstances’ ” of the
school in question. Ibid. This Court’s precedent thus
does not permit treating Kennedy’s “new” prayer
practice as occurring on a blank slate, any more than those in the
District’s school community would have experienced
Kennedy’s changed practice (to the degree there was one) as
erasing years of prior actions by Kennedy.

															Like the policy change in Santa Fe,
Kennedy’s “changed” prayers at these last three
games were a clear continuation of a “long-established
tradition of sanctioning” school official involvement in
student prayers. Ibid. Students at the three games following
Kennedy’s changed practice witnessed Kennedy kneeling at the
same time and place where he had led them in prayer for years. They
witnessed their peers from opposing teams joining Kennedy, just as
they had when Kennedy was leading joint team prayers. They
witnessed members of the public and state representatives going
onto the field to support Kennedy’s cause and pray with him.
Kennedy did nothing to stop this unauthorized access to the field,
a clear dereliction of his duties. The BHS players in fact joined
the crowd around Kennedy after he stood up from praying at the last
game. That BHS students did not join Kennedy in these last three
specific prayers did not make those events compliant with the
Establishment Clause. The coercion to do so was evident. Kennedy
himself apparently anticipated that his continued prayer practice
would draw student participation, requesting that the District
agree that it would not “interfere” with students
joining him in the future. App. 71.

															Finally, Kennedy stresses that he never formally
required students to join him in his prayers. But existing
precedents do not require coercion to be explicit, particularly
when children are involved. To the contrary, this Court’s
Establishment Clause jurisprudence establishes that
“ ‘the government may no more use social pressure
to enforce orthodoxy than it may use more direct
means.’ ” Santa Fe, 530 U. S., at
312. Thus, the Court has held that the Establishment Clause
“will not permit” a school “ ‘to exact
religious conformity from a student as the price’ of joining
her classmates at a varsity football game.” Ibid. To
uphold a coach’s integration of prayer into the ceremony of a
football game, in the context of an established history of the
coach inviting student involvement in prayer, is to exact precisely
this price from students.

															C

															As the Court explains, see ante, at 15,
Kennedy did not “shed [his] constitutional rights
. . . at the schoolhouse gate” while on duty as a
coach. Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School
Dist., 393 U.S.
503, 506 (1969). Constitutional rights, however, are not
absolutes. Rights often conflict and balancing of interests is
often required to protect the separate rights at issue. See
Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization,
597 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 12) (Breyer,
Sotomayor, and Kagan, JJ., dissenting) (noting that “the
presence of countervailing interests . . . is what
ma[kes]” a constitutional question “hard, and what
require[s] balancing”).

															The particular tensions at issue in this case,
between the speech interests of the government and its employees
and between public institutions’ religious neutrality and
private individuals’ religious exercise, are far from novel.
This Court’s settled precedents offer guidance to assist
courts, governments, and the public in navigating these tensions.
Under these precedents, the District’s interest in avoiding
an Establishment Clause violation justified both its time and place
restrictions on Kennedy’s speech and his exercise of
religion.

															First, as to Kennedy’s free speech claim,
Kennedy “accept[ed] certain limitations” on his freedom
of speech when he accepted government employment. Garcetti
v. Ceballos, 547 U.S.
410, 418 (2006). The Court has recognized that
“[g]overnment employers, like private employers, need a
significant degree of control over their employees’ words and
actions” to ensure “the efficient provision of public
services.” Ibid. Case law instructs balancing
“the interests of the teacher, as a citizen, in commenting
upon matters of public concern and the interest of the State, as an
employer, in promoting the efficiency of the public services it
performs through its employees” to determine whose interests
should prevail. Pickering v. Board of Ed. of Township
High School Dist. 205, Will Cty., 391 U.S.
563, 568 (1968).

															As the Court of Appeals below outlined, the
District has a strong argument that Kennedy’s speech,
formally integrated into the center of a District event, was speech
in his official capacity as an employee that is not entitled to
First Amendment protections at all. See Garcetti, 547
U. S., at 418; 991 F. 3d, at 1014–1016 (applying
Garcetti).[3] It is
unnecessary to resolve this question, however, because, even
assuming that Kennedy’s speech was in his capacity as a
private citizen, the District’s responsibilities under the
Establishment Clause provided “adequate justification”
for restricting it. Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 418.

															Similarly, Kennedy’s free exercise claim
must be considered in light of the fact that he is a school
official and, as such, his participation in religious exercise can
create Establishment Clause conflicts. Accordingly, his right to
pray at any time and in any manner he wishes while exercising his
professional duties is not absolute. See Lee, 505
U. S., at 587 (noting that a school official’s choice to
integrate a prayer is “attributable to the State”). As
the Court explains, see ante, at 13–14, the parties
agree (and I therefore assume) that for the purposes of
Kennedy’s claim, the burden is on the District to establish
that its policy prohibiting Kennedy’s public prayers was the
least restrictive means of furthering a compelling state interest.
Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah,
508 U.S.
520, 546 (1993).

															Here, the District’s directive prohibiting
Kennedy’s demonstrative speech at the 50-yard line was
narrowly tailored to avoid an Establishment Clause violation. The
District’s suspension of Kennedy followed a long history. The
last three games proved that Kennedy did not intend to pray
silently, but to thrust the District into incorporating a religious
ceremony into its events, as he invited others to join his prayer
and anticipated in his communications with the District that
students would want to join as well. Notably, the District
repeatedly sought to work with Kennedy to develop an accommodation
to permit him to engage in religious exercise during or after his
game-related responsibilities. Kennedy, however, ultimately refused
to respond to the District’s suggestions and declined to
communicate with the District, except through media appearances.
Because the District’s valid Establishment Clause concerns
satisfy strict scrutiny, Kennedy’s free exercise claim fails
as well.

															III

															Despite the overwhelming precedents
establishing that school officials leading prayer violates the
Establishment Clause, the Court today holds that Kennedy’s
midfield prayer practice did not violate the Establishment Clause.
This decision rests on an erroneous understanding of the Religion
Clauses. It also disregards the balance this Court’s cases
strike among the rights conferred by the Clauses. The Court relies
on an assortment of pluralities, concurrences, and dissents by
Members of the current majority to effect fundamental changes in
this Court’s Religion Clauses jurisprudence, all the while
proclaiming that nothing has changed at all.

															A

															This case involves three Clauses of the First
Amendment. As a threshold matter, the Court today proceeds from two
mistaken understandings of the way the protections these Clauses
embody interact.

															First, the Court describes the Free Exercise and
Free Speech Clauses as “work[ing] in tandem” to
“provid[e] overlapping protection for expressive religious
activities,” leaving religious speech “doubly
protect[ed].” Ante, at 11. This narrative noticeably
(and improperly) sets the Establishment Clause to the side. The
Court is correct that certain expressive religious activities may
fall within the ambit of both the Free Speech Clause and the Free
Exercise Clause, but “the First Amendment protects speech and
religion by quite different mechanisms.” Lee, 505
U. S., at 591. The First Amendment protects speech “by
ensuring its full expression even when the government
participates.” Ibid. Its “method for protecting
freedom of worship and freedom of conscience in religious matters
is quite the reverse,” however, based on the understanding
that “the government is not a prime participant” in
“religious debate or expression,” whereas government is
the “object of some of our most important speech.”
Ibid. Thus, as this Court has explained, while the Free
Speech Clause has “close parallels in the speech provisions
of the First Amendment,” the First Amendment’s
protections for religion diverge from those for speech because of
the Establishment Clause, which provides a “specific
prohibition on forms of state intervention in religious affairs
with no precise counterpart in the speech provisions.”
Ibid. Therefore, while our Constitution “counsel[s]
mutual respect and tolerance,” the Constitution’s
vision of how to achieve this end does in fact involve some
“singl[ing] out” of religious speech by the government.
Ante, at 1. This is consistent with “the lesson of
history that was and is the inspiration for the Establishment
Clause, the lesson that in the hands of government what might begin
as a tolerant expression of religious views may end in a policy to
indoctrinate and coerce.” Lee, 505 U. S., at
591–592.

															Second, the Court contends that the lower courts
erred by introducing a false tension between the Free Exercise and
Establishment Clauses. See ante, at 20–21. The Court,
however, has long recognized that these two Clauses, while
“express[ing] complementary values,” “often exert
conflicting pressures.” Cutter, 544 U. S., at
719. See also Locke v. Davey, 540
U.S. 712, 718 (2004) (describing the Clauses as
“frequently in tension”). The “absolute
terms” of the two Clauses mean that they “tend to
clash” if “expanded to a logical extreme.”
Walz, 397 U. S., at 668–669.

															The Court inaccurately implies that the courts
below relied upon a rule that the Establishment Clause must always
“prevail” over the Free Exercise Clause. Ante,
at 20. In focusing almost exclusively on Kennedy’s free
exercise claim, however, and declining to recognize the conflicting
rights at issue, the Court substitutes one supposed blanket rule
for another. The proper response where tension arises between the
two Clauses is not to ignore it, which effectively silently
elevates one party’s right above others. The proper response
is to identify the tension and balance the interests based on a
careful analysis of “whether [the] particular acts in
question are intended to establish or interfere with religious
beliefs and practices or have the effect of doing so.”
Walz, 397 U. S., at 669. As discussed above, that
inquiry leads to the conclusion that permitting Kennedy’s
desired religious practice at the time and place of his choosing,
without regard to the legitimate needs of his employer, violates
the Establishment Clause in the particular context at issue here.
Supra, at 16–20.

															B

															For decades, the Court has recognized that, in
determining whether a school has violated the Establishment Clause,
“one of the relevant questions is whether an objective
observer, acquainted with the text, legislative history, and
implementation of the [practice], would perceive it as a state
endorsement of prayer in public schools.”
Santa Fe, 530 U. S., at 308 (internal quotation
marks omitted). The Court now says for the first time that
endorsement simply does not matter, and completely repudiates the
test established in Lemon, 403
U.S. 602. Ante, at 22–24. Both of these moves are
erroneous and, despite the Court’s assurances, novel.

															Start with endorsement. The Court reserves
particular criticism for the longstanding understanding that
government action that appears to endorse religion violates the
Establishment Clause, which it describes as an
“offshoot” of Lemon and paints as a
“ ‘modified heckler’s veto, in which
. . . religious activity can be
proscribed’ ” based on
“ ‘ “perceptions” ’ ”
or
“ ‘ “discomfort.” ’ ”
Ante, at 21–22 (quoting Good News Club v.
Milford Central School, 533 U.S.
98, 119 (2001)). This is a strawman. Precedent long has
recognized that endorsement concerns under the Establishment
Clause, properly understood, bear no relation to a
“ ‘heckler’s veto.’ ”
Ante, as 22. Good News Club itself explained
the difference between the two: The endorsement inquiry considers
the perspective not of just any hypothetical or uninformed observer
experiencing subjective discomfort, but of “ ‘the
reasonable observer’ ” who is
“ ‘aware of the history and context of the
community and forum in which the religious [speech takes
place].’ ” 533 U. S., at 119. That is because
“ ‘the endorsement inquiry is not about the
perceptions of particular individuals or saving isolated
nonadherents from . . . discomfort’ ”
but concern “ ‘with the political community writ
large.’ ” Ibid. (emphasis deleted).

															Given this concern for the political community,
it is unsurprising that the Court has long prioritized endorsement
concerns in the context of public education. See, e.g.,
Santa Fe, 530 U. S., at 305; Wallace, 472
U. S., at 60–61; Edwards, 482 U. S., at 578,
593; see also Lee, 505 U. S., at 618–619 (Souter,
J., concurring) (explaining that many of the Court’s
Establishment Clause holdings in the school context are concerned
not with whether the policy in question “coerced students to
participate in prayer” but with whether it
“ ‘convey[ed] a message of state approval of
prayer activities in the public schools’ ”
(quoting Wallace, 472 U. S., at 61)).[4] No subsequent decisions in other contexts,
including the cases about monuments and legislative meetings on
which the Court relies, have so much as questioned the application
of this core Establishment Clause concern in the context of public
schools. In fact, Town of Greece v. Galloway,
572 U.S.
565, which held a prayer during a town meeting permissible,
specifically distinguished Lee because Lee considered
the Establishment Clause in the context of schools. 572 U. S.,
at 590 (plurality opinion).

															Paying heed to these precedents would not
“ ‘purge from the public sphere’ anything an
observer could reasonably infer endorses” religion.
Ante, at 22. To the contrary, the Court has recognized that
“there will be instances when religious values, religious
practices, and religious persons will have some interaction with
the public schools and their students.” Lee, 505
U. S., at 598–599. These instances, the Court has said,
are “often questions of accommodat[ing]” religious
practices to the degree possible while respecting the Establishment
Clause. Id., at 599.[5]
In short, the endorsement inquiry dictated by precedent is a
measured, practical, and administrable one, designed to account for
the competing interests present within any given community.

															Despite all of this authority, the Court claims
that it “long ago abandoned” both the
“endorsement test” and this Court’s decision in
Lemon 403
U.S. 602. Ante, at 22. The Court chiefly cites the
plurality opinion in American Legion v. American Humanist
Assn., 588 U. S. ___ (2019) to support this contention.
That plurality opinion, to be sure, criticized Lemon’s
effort at establishing a “grand unified theory of the
Establishment Clause” as poorly suited to the broad
“array” of diverse establishment claims. 588
U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 13, 24). All the Court
in American Legion ultimately held, however, was that
application of the Lemon test to “longstanding
monuments, symbols, and practices” was ill-advised for
reasons specific to those contexts. 588 U. S., at ___
(slip op., at 16); see also id., at ___–___ (slip op.,
at 16–21) (discussing at some length why the Lemon
test was a poor fit for those circumstances). The only categorical
rejection of Lemon in American Legion appeared in
separate writings. See 588 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at
1) (Kavanaugh, J., concurring); id., at ___ (slip op., at 6)
(Thomas, J., concurring in judgment); id., at ___ (slip op.,
at 7) (Gorsuch, J., concurring in judgment); see ante, at
23, n. 4.[6]

															The Court now goes much further, overruling
Lemon entirely and in all contexts. It is wrong to do so.
Lemon summarized “the cumulative criteria developed by
the Court over many years” of experience “draw[ing]
lines” as to when government engagement with religion
violated the Establishment Clause. 403 U. S., at 612.
Lemon properly concluded that precedent generally directed
consideration of whether the government action had a “secular
legislative purpose,” whether its “principal or primary
effect must be one that neither advances nor inhibits
religion,” and whether in practice it “foster[s]
‘an excessive government entanglement with
religion.’ ” Id., at 612–613. It is
true “that rigid application of the Lemon test does
not solve every Establishment Clause problem,” but that does
not mean that the test has no value. American Legion, 588
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 1) (Kagan, J., concurring in
part).

															To put it plainly, the purposes and effects of a
government action matter in evaluating whether that action violates
the Establishment Clause, as numerous precedents beyond
Lemon instruct in the particular context of public schools.
See supra, at 14–16, 18. Neither the critiques of
Lemon as setting out a dispositive test for all seasons nor
the fact that the Court has not referred to Lemon in all
situations support this Court’s decision to dismiss that
precedent entirely, particularly in the school context.

															C

															Upon overruling one “grand unified
theory,” the Court introduces another: It holds that courts
must interpret whether an Establishment Clause violation has
occurred mainly “by ‘reference to historical practices
and understandings.’ ” Ante, at 23 (quoting
Town of Greece, 572 U. S., at 576 (internal quotation
marks omitted)). Here again, the Court professes that nothing has
changed. In fact, while the Court has long referred to historical
practice as one element of the analysis in specific Establishment
Clause cases, the Court has never announced this as a general test
or exclusive focus. American Legion, 588 U. S.,
at ___–___ (Breyer, J., concurring) (slip op., at 2–3)
(noting that the Court was “appropriately ‘look[ing] to
history for guidance’ ” but was not
“adopt[ing] a ‘history and tradition
test’ ”).

															The Court reserves any meaningful explanation of
its history-and-tradition test for another day, content for now to
disguise it as established law and move on. It should not escape
notice, however, that the effects of the majority’s new rule
could be profound. The problems with elevating history and
tradition over purpose and precedent are well documented. See
Dobbs, 597 U. S., at ___ (Breyer, Sotomayor, and Kagan,
JJ., dissenting) (slip op., at 16) (explaining that the Framers
“defined rights in general terms to permit future evolution
in their scope and meaning”); New York State Rifle &
Pistol Assn., Inc. v. Bruen, 597 U. S. ___,
___–___ (2022) (Breyer, J., dissenting) (slip op., at
24–28) (explaining the pitfalls of a “near-exclusive
reliance on history” and offering examples of when this Court
has “misread” history in the past); Brown v.
Davenport, 596 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2022) (Kagan,
J., dissenting) (slip op., at 7–8) (noting the inaccuracies
risked when courts “play amateur historian”).

															For now, it suffices to say that the
Court’s history-and-tradition test offers essentially no
guidance for school administrators. If even judges and Justices,
with full adversarial briefing and argument tailored to precise
legal issues, regularly disagree (and err) in their amateur efforts
at history, how are school administrators, faculty, and staff
supposed to adapt? How will school administrators exercise their
responsibilities to manage school curriculum and events when the
Court appears to elevate individuals’ rights to religious
exercise above all else? Today’s opinion provides little in
the way of answers; the Court simply sets the stage for future
legal changes that will inevitably follow the Court’s choice
today to upset longstanding rules.

															D

															Finally, the Court acknowledges that the
Establishment Clause prohibits the government from coercing people
to engage in religion practice, ante, at 24–25, but
its analysis of coercion misconstrues both the record and this
Court’s precedents.

															The Court claims that the District “never
raised coercion concerns” simply because the District
conceded that there was “ ‘no evidence that
students [were] directly coerced to pray with
Kennedy.’ ” Ante, at 25 (emphasis added).
The Court’s suggestion that coercion must be
“direc[t]” to be cognizable under the Establishment
Clause is contrary to long-established precedent. The Court
repeatedly has recognized that indirect coercion may raise serious
establishment concerns, and that “there are heightened
concerns with protecting freedom of conscience from subtle coercive
pressure in the elementary and secondary public schools.”
Lee, 505 U. S., at 592 (opinion of the Court); see also
supra, at 15–16. Tellingly, none of this
Court’s major cases involving school prayer concerned school
practices that required students to do any more than listen
silently to prayers, and some did not even formally require
students to listen, instead providing that attendance was not
mandatory. See Santa Fe, 530 U. S., at
296–298; Lee, 505 U. S., at 593; Wallace,
472 U. S., at 40; School Dist. of Abington Township,
374 U. S., at 205; Engel, 370 U. S., at 422.
Nevertheless, the Court concluded that the practices were coercive
as a constitutional matter.

															Today’s Court quotes the Lee
Court’s remark that enduring others’ speech is
“ ‘part of learning how to live in a pluralistic
society.’ ” Ante, at 26 (quoting
Lee, 505 U. S., at 590). The Lee Court, however,
expressly concluded, in the very same paragraph, that “[t]his
argument cannot prevail” in the school-prayer context because
the notion that being subject to a “brief ” prayer
in school is acceptable “overlooks a fundamental dynamic of
the Constitution”: its “specific prohibition on
. . . state intervention in religious affairs.”
Id., at 591; see also id., at 594 (“[T]he
government may no more use social pressure to enforce orthodoxy
than it may use more direct means”).[7]

															The Court also distinguishes
Santa Fe because Kennedy’s prayers “were
not publicly broadcast or recited to a captive audience.”
Ante, at 30. This misses the point. In Santa Fe, a
student council chaplain delivered a prayer over the public-address
system before each varsity football game of the season. 530
U. S., at 294. Students were not required as a general matter
to attend the games, but “cheerleaders, members of the band,
and, of course, the team members themselves” were, and the
Court would have found an “improper effect of coercing those
present” even if it “regard[ed] every high school
student’s decision to attend . . . as purely
voluntary.” Id., at 311–312. Kennedy’s
prayers raise precisely the same concerns. His prayers did not need
to be broadcast. His actions spoke louder than his words. His
prayers were intentionally, visually demonstrative to an audience
aware of their history and no less captive than the audience in
Santa Fe, with spectators watching and some players
perhaps engaged in a song, but all waiting to rejoin their coach
for a postgame talk. Moreover, Kennedy’s prayers had a
greater coercive potential because they were delivered not by a
student, but by their coach, who was still on active duty for
postgame events.

															In addition, despite the direct record evidence
that students felt coerced to participate in Kennedy’s
prayers, the Court nonetheless concludes that coercion was not
present in any event because “Kennedy did not seek to direct
any prayers to students or require anyone else to
participate.” Ante, at 26; see also ante, at
30, n. 7 (contending that the fact that “students might
choose, unprompted, to participate” in their coach’s
on-the-field prayers does not “necessarily prove them
coercive”). But nowhere does the Court engage with the unique
coercive power of a coach’s actions on his adolescent
players.[8]

															In any event, the Court makes this assertion
only by drawing a bright line between Kennedy’s yearslong
practice of leading student prayers, which the Court does not
defend, and Kennedy’s final three prayers, which BHS students
did not join, but student peers from the other teams did. See
ante, at 26 (distinguishing Kennedy’s prior practice
and focusing narrowly on “three prayers . . . in
October 2015”). As discussed above, see supra, at 18,
this mode of analysis contravenes precedent by “turn[ing] a
blind eye to the context in which [Kennedy’s practice]
arose,” Santa Fe, 530 U. S., at
315.[9] This Court’s
precedents require a more nuanced inquiry into the realities of
coercion in the specific school context concerned than the majority
recognizes today. The question before the Court is not whether a
coach taking a knee to pray on the field would constitute an
Establishment Clause violation in any and all circumstances. It is
whether permitting Kennedy to continue a demonstrative prayer
practice at the center of the football field after years of
inappropriately leading students in prayer in the same spot, at
that same time, and in the same manner, which led students to feel
compelled to join him, violates the Establishment Clause. It
does.

															Having disregarded this context, the Court finds
Kennedy’s three-game practice distinguishable from precedent
because the prayers were “quie[t]” and the students
were otherwise “occupied.” Ante, at 26. The
record contradicts this narrative. Even on the Court’s myopic
framing of the facts, at two of the three games on which the Court
focuses, players witnessed student peers from the other team and
other authority figures surrounding Kennedy and joining him in
prayer. The coercive pressures inherent in such a situation are
obvious. Moreover, Kennedy’s actual demand to the District
was that he give “verbal” prayers specifically at the
midfield position where he traditionally led team prayers, and that
students be allowed to join him “voluntarily” and pray.
App. 64, 69–71. Notably, the Court today does not embrace
this demand, but it nonetheless rejects the District’s right
to ensure that students were not pressured to pray.

															To reiterate, the District did not argue, and
neither court below held, that “any visible religious
conduct by a teacher or coach should be deemed . . .
impermissibly coercive on students.” Ante, at 28. Nor
has anyone contended that a coach may never visibly pray on the
field. The courts below simply recognized that Kennedy continued to
initiate prayers visible to students, while still on duty during
school events, under the exact same circumstances as his past
practice of leading student prayer. It is unprecedented for the
Court to hold that this conduct, taken as a whole, did not raise
cognizable coercion concerns. Importantly, nothing in the
Court’s opinion should be read as calling into question that
Kennedy’s conduct may have raised other concerns regarding
disruption of school events or misuse of school facilities that
would have separately justified employment action against
Kennedy.

															*  *  *

															The Free Exercise Clause and Establishment
Clause are equally integral in protecting religious freedom in our
society. The first serves as “a promise from our
government,” while the second erects a “backstop that
disables our government from breaking it” and
“start[ing] us down the path to the past, when [the right to
free exercise] was routinely abridged.” Trinity Lutheran
Church of Columbia, Inc. v. Comer, 582 U. S. ___,
___ (2017) (Sotomayor, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 26).

															Today, the Court once again weakens the
backstop. It elevates one individual’s interest in personal
religious exercise, in the exact time and place of that
individual’s choosing, over society’s interest in
protecting the separation between church and state, eroding the
protections for religious liberty for all. Today’s decision
is particularly misguided because it elevates the religious rights
of a school official, who voluntarily accepted public employment
and the limits that public employment entails, over those of his
students, who are required to attend school and who this Court has
long recognized are particularly vulnerable and deserving of
protection. In doing so, the Court sets us further down a perilous
path in forcing States to entangle themselves with religion, with
all of our rights hanging in the balance. As much as the Court
protests otherwise, today’s decision is no victory for
religious liberty. I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 The Court recounts that
Kennedy was “willing to say his ‘prayer while the
players were walking to the locker room’ or
‘bus,’ and then catch up with his team.”
Ante, at 4 (quoting App. 280–282); see also
ante, at 5. Kennedy made the quoted remarks, however, only
during his deposition in the underlying litigation, stating in
response to a question that such timing would have been
“physically possible” and “possibly” have
been acceptable to him, but that he had never “discuss[ed]
with the District whether that was a possibility for [him] to
do” and had “no idea” whether his lawyers raised
it with the District. App. 280.
2
 The Court describes the
events of the October 16 game as having “spurred media
coverage of Mr. Kennedy’s case.” Ante, at 5. In
fact, the District Court found that Kennedy himself generated the
media coverage by publicizing his dispute with the District in his
initial Facebook posting and in his media appearances before the
October 16 game. 443 F. Supp. 3d 1223, 1230 (WD Wash.
2020).
3
 The Court’s primary
argument that Kennedy’s speech is not in his official
capacity is that he was permitted “to call home, check a
text, [or] socialize” during the time period in question.
Ante, at 18–19. These truly private, informal
communications bear little resemblance, however, to what Kennedy
did. Kennedy explicitly sought to make his demonstrative prayer a
permanent ritual of the postgame events, at the physical center of
those events, where he was present by virtue of his job
responsibilities, and after years of giving prayer-filled
motivational speeches to students at the same relative time and
location. In addition, Kennedy gathered public officials and other
members of the public onto the field to join him in the prayer,
contrary to school policies controlling access to the field. Such
behavior raises an entirely different risk of depriving the
employer of “control over what the employer itself has
commissioned or created” than an employee making a call home
on the sidelines, fleetingly checking email, or pausing to hug a
friend in the crowd. Garcetti, 547 U. S., at
422.
4
The Court attempts to recast
Lee and Santa Fe as solely concerning coercion,
ante, at 29–30, but both cases emphasized that it was
important to avoid appearances of “ ‘state
endorsement of prayer in public schools.’ ”
Santa Fe, 530 U. S., at 308; see Lee, 505
U. S., at 590 (finding that the “degree of school
involvement” indicated that the “prayers bore the
imprint of the State”).
5
 The notion that
integration of religious practices into the workplace may require
compromise and accommodation is not unique to the public-employer
context where Establishment Clause concerns arise. The
Court’s precedents on religious discrimination claims
similarly recognize that the employment context requires balancing
employer and employee interests, and that religious practice need
not always be accommodated. See Kennedy v. Bremerton
School Dist., 586 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 6)
(Alito, J., statement respecting denial of certiorari) (noting that
“Title VII’s prohibition of discrimination on the basis
of religion does not require an employer to make any accommodation
that imposes more than a de minimis burden”). Surely,
an employee’s religious practice that forces a school
district to engage in burdensome measures to stop spectators from
rushing onto a field and knocking people down imposes much more
than a de minimis burden.
6
 The Court also cites
Shurtleff v. Boston, 596 U. S. ___ (2022), as
evidence that the Lemon test has been rejected. See
ante, at 23. Again, while separate writings in
Shurtleff criticized Lemon, the Court did not. The
opinion of the Court simply applied the longstanding rule that,
when the government does not speak for itself, it cannot exclude
speech based on the speech’s “ ‘religious
viewpoint.’ ” Shurtleff, 596 U. S., at ___
(slip op., at 12) (quoting Good News Club, 533 U. S.,
at 112). The Court further infers Lemon’s implicit
overruling from recent decisions that do not apply its test. See
ante, at 23, n. 4. As explained above, however, not
applying a test in a given case is a different matter from
overruling it entirely and, moreover, the Court has never before
questioned the relevance of endorsement in the school-prayer
context.
7
 The Court further claims
that Lee is distinguishable because it involved prayer at an
event in which the school had “ ‘in every
practical sense compelled attendance and participation in [a]
religious exercise.’ ” Ante, at 29 (quoting
Lee, 505 U. S., at 598). The Court in Lee,
however, recognized expressly that attendance at the graduation
ceremony was not mandatory and that students who attended only had
to remain silent during and after the prayers. Id., at 583,
593.
8
 Puzzlingly, the Court
goes a step further and suggests that Kennedy may have been in
violation of the District policy on Religious-Related Activities
and Practices if he did not permit the players to join his prayers
because the policy prohibited staff from
“discourag[ing]” student prayer. Ante, at 4, 30,
n. 7. The policy, however, specifically referred to student
prayer of the student’s “own volition” and
equally prohibited staff from “encourag[ing]” student
prayer. App. 28.
9
 The Court claims that
Kennedy’s “past prayer practices” should not be
seen to “taint” his current ones by again turning to
Town of Greece v. Galloway, the town assembly prayer
case. Ante, at 30, n. 7. In the passage the Court
cites, Town of Greece concluded that “two
remarks” by two different “guest minister[s]” on
two isolated occasions did not constitute a “pattern of
prayers that over time denigrate, proselytize, or betray an
impermissible government purpose.” 572 U. S., at 585. As
Town of Greece itself emphasizes, the school context
presents Establishment Clause concerns distinct from those raised
in a town meeting for “mature adults.” Id., at
590 (plurality opinion). See supra, at 15. In any event,
Kennedy’s yearslong “past prayer practices”
constituted an established pattern, not an isolated occasion, and
he hardly “abandoned” the practice. Ante, at 30,
n. 7. As his October 14 letter and subsequent actions made
clear, Kennedy attempted to hew as closely to his past practice as
possible, taking a knee at the same time and place as previously,
and in the same manner that initially drew students to join him and
by improperly permitting spectators to join him on the
field.


