::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-442
::decision_name::  Reed v. Goertz
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States
Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of
Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington,
D. C. 20543, pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or
other formal errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–442

															_________________

															RODNEY REED, PETITIONER v. BRYAN
GOERTZ

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[April 19, 2023]

															Justice Kavanaugh delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															In many States, a convicted prisoner who still
disputes his guilt may ask state courts to order post-conviction
DNA testing of evidence. If the prisoner’s request fails in
the state courts and he then files a federal 42 U. S. C.
§1983 procedural due process suit challenging the
constitutionality of the state process, when does the statute of
limitations for that §1983 suit begin to run? The Eleventh
Circuit has held that the statute of limitations begins to run at
the end of the state-court litigation denying DNA testing,
including the state-court appeal. See Van Poyck v.
McCollum, 646 F.3d 865, 867 (2011). In this case, by
contrast, the Fifth Circuit held that the statute of limitations
begins to run when the state trial court denied DNA testing,
notwithstanding a subsequent state-court appeal. See 995 F.3d 425,
431 (2021). We conclude that the statute of limitations begins to
run at the end of the state-court litigation.

															I

															In 1996, Stacey Stites was strangled to death
in Bastrop County, Texas. The State charged Rodney Reed with
murdering Stites. At trial, Reed claimed that he was innocent and
that Stites’s fiancé or another acquaintance had
committed the murder. A jury rejected that defense theory and found
Reed guilty. Reed was sentenced to death. The Texas Court of
Criminal Appeals affirmed the conviction and death sentence.
Reed’s state and federal habeas petitions were
unsuccessful.

															Then in 2014, Reed filed a motion in state court
under Texas’s post-conviction DNA testing law. See Tex. Code
Crim. Proc. Ann., Arts. 64.01–64.05 (Vernon 2018). Reed
requested DNA testing on more than 40 pieces of evidence, including
the belt used to strangle Stites. Reed contended that DNA testing
would help identify the true perpetrator. The state prosecutor,
respondent Bryan Goertz, agreed to test several pieces of evidence,
but otherwise opposed the motion and refused to test most of the
evidence.

															The state trial court denied Reed’s
motion. The court reasoned in part that (i) many items Reed sought
to test—including the belt—were not preserved through
an adequate chain of custody and (ii) Reed did not demonstrate that
he would have been acquitted if the DNA results were exculpatory.
On appeal, the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed the trial
court and later denied Reed’s motion for rehearing.

															Reed next sued in federal court under 42
U. S. C. §1983, asserting that Texas’s
post-conviction DNA testing law failed to provide procedural due
process. Among other things, Reed argued that the law’s
stringent chain-of-custody requirement was unconstitutional and in
effect foreclosed DNA testing for individuals convicted before
“rules governing the State’s handling and storage of
evidence were put in place.” App. 39.

															The U. S. District Court for the Western
District of Texas dismissed Reed’s complaint. The U. S.
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed on the ground that
Reed’s §1983 suit was filed too late, after the
applicable 2-year statute of limitations had run. The Fifth Circuit
ruled that the statute of limitations began to run when the Texas
trial court denied Reed’s motion (which occurred more than
two years before Reed filed his §1983 suit in federal court),
not when the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals denied rehearing.

															Because the federal Courts of Appeals disagree
about when the statute of limitations begins to run for a
§1983 suit regarding a State’s post-conviction DNA
testing procedures, we granted certiorari. 596 U. S. ___
(2022).

															II

															Texas raises three threshold arguments.

															First, Texas argues that Reed lacks
standing. We disagree. Reed sufficiently alleged an injury in fact:
denial of access to the requested evidence. The state prosecutor,
who is the named defendant, denied access to the evidence and
thereby caused Reed’s injury. And if a federal court
concludes that Texas’s post-conviction DNA testing procedures
violate due process, that court order would eliminate the state
prosecutor’s justification for denying DNA testing. It is
“substantially likely” that the state prosecutor would
abide by such a court order. Utah v. Evans, 536 U.S.
452, 464 (2002) (internal quotation marks omitted). In other
words, in “terms of our ‘standing’ precedent, the
courts would have ordered a change in a legal status,” and
“the practical consequence of that change would amount to a
significant increase in the likelihood” that the state
prosecutor would grant access to the requested evidence and that
Reed therefore “would obtain relief that directly redresses
the injury suffered.” Ibid.
Second, Texas invokes the State’s
sovereign immunity. But the Ex parte Young doctrine
allows suits like Reed’s for declaratory or injunctive relief
against state officers in their official capacities. 209 U.S.
123, 159–161 (1908).

															Third, Texas contends that Reed’s
procedural due process claim contravenes the Rooker-Feldman
doctrine. See Rooker v. Fidelity Trust Co., 263 U.S.
413 (1923); District of Columbia Court of Appeals v.
Feldman, 460 U.S.
462 (1983). That doctrine prohibits federal courts from
adjudicating cases brought by state-court losing parties
challenging state-court judgments. But as this Court explained in
Skinner v. Switzer, even though a “state-court
decision is not reviewable by lower federal courts,” a
“statute or rule governing the decision may be challenged in
a federal action.” 562 U.S.
521, 532 (2011). Here, as in Skinner, Reed does
“not challenge the adverse” state-court decisions
themselves, but rather “targets as unconstitutional the Texas
statute they authoritatively construed.” Ibid.

															III

															This Court’s case law “severely
limits the federal action a state prisoner may bring for DNA
testing.” Skinner v. Switzer, 562 U.S.
521, 525 (2011). The Court has “rejected the extension of
substantive due process to this area, and left slim room for the
prisoner to show that the governing state law denies him procedural
due process.” Ibid. (citation omitted); see
District Attorney’s Office for Third Judicial Dist. v.
Osborne, 557 U.S. 52, 69, 72 (2009).

															Seeking to fit his §1983 suit within the
“slim room” left by this Court’s precedent, Reed
raised a procedural due process challenge to Texas’s
post-conviction DNA testing law. The sole question now before this
Court is whether Reed’s §1983 suit was timely. The
parties agree that the statute of limitations for Reed’s
claim is two years. But the parties disagree about when that 2-year
limitations period began to run. That question is one of federal
law. See Wallace v. Kato, 549
U.S. 384, 388 (2007).

															As a general matter, the statute of limitations
begins to run when the plaintiff has a “complete and present
cause of action.” Bay Area Laundry and Dry Cleaning
Pension Trust Fund v. Ferbar Corp. of Cal., 522 U.S.
192, 201 (1997) (internal quotation marks omitted). To
determine when a plaintiff has a complete and present cause of
action, the Court focuses first on the specific constitutional
right alleged to have been infringed. See McDonough v.
Smith, 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 4).

															Here, the specific constitutional right
allegedly infringed is procedural due process. A procedural due
process claim consists of two elements: (i) deprivation by
state action of a protected interest in life, liberty, or property,
and (ii) inadequate state process. See Zinermon v.
Burch, 494 U.S.
113, 125 (1990). Importantly, the Court has stated that a
procedural due process claim “is not complete when the
deprivation occurs.” Id., at 126. Rather, the claim is
“complete” only when “the State fails to provide
due process.” Ibid.

															Reed contends that the State’s process for
considering his DNA testing request was fundamentally unfair in
violation of the Due Process Clause. Texas’s process for
considering a request for DNA testing in capital cases includes not
only trial court proceedings, but also appellate review by the
Court of Criminal Appeals. Tex. Code Crim. Proc. Ann., Art. 64.05.
And under longstanding Texas rules of appellate procedure, the
Court of Criminal Appeals’s appellate review process
encompasses a motion for rehearing. Tex. Rule App. Proc. 79.1
(2022).

															In Reed’s case, the State’s alleged
failure to provide Reed with a fundamentally fair process was
complete when the state litigation ended and deprived Reed of his
asserted liberty interest in DNA testing. Therefore, Reed’s
§1983 claim was complete and the statute of limitations began
to run when the state litigation ended—when the Texas Court
of Criminal Appeals denied Reed’s motion for rehearing.

															The soundness of that straightforward conclusion
is “reinforced by the consequences that would follow”
from a contrary approach. McDonough, 588 U. S., at ___
(slip op., at 9). If the statute of limitations for a §1983
suit like Reed’s began to run after a state trial
court’s denial of a plaintiff ’s motion for DNA
testing (or even after the appeal before the
plaintiff ’s rehearing proceedings), the plaintiff would
likely continue to pursue relief in the state system and
simultaneously file a protective federal §1983 suit
challenging that ongoing state process. That parallel litigation
would “run counter to core principles of federalism, comity,
consistency, and judicial economy.” Id., at ___ (slip
op., at 10). We see no good reason for such senseless
duplication.

															Moreover, significant systemic benefits ensue
from starting the statute of limitations clock when the state
litigation in DNA testing cases like Reed’s has concluded. If
any due process flaws lurk in the DNA testing law, the state
appellate process may cure those flaws, thereby rendering a federal
§1983 suit unnecessary. And if the state appellate court
construes the DNA testing statute, that construction will
streamline and focus subsequent §1983 proceedings.

															In sum, when a prisoner pursues state
post-conviction DNA testing through the state-provided litigation
process, the statute of limitations for a §1983 procedural due
process claim begins to run when the state litigation ends. In
Reed’s case, the statute of limitations began to run when the
Texas Court of Criminal Appeals denied Reed’s motion for
rehearing. Reed’s §1983 claim was timely.[1]

															We reverse the judgment of the U. S. Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 According to Reed, a
plaintiff may forgo full appellate review in the state-court system
and still bring a procedural due process suit challenging a
State’s post-conviction DNA testing law. See Tr. of Oral Arg.
9–14. As this Court indicated in Osborne, it may be
“difficult” as a practical matter “to criticize
the State’s procedures when [the prisoner] has not invoked
them.” 557 U. S., at 71. In any event, we need not
address that hypothetical scenario.


