::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-063
::decision_cite:: 21-439
::decision_name::  Nance v. Ward
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Barrett
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–439

															_________________

															MICHAEL NANCE, PETITIONER v. TIMOTHY C. WARD, COMMISSIONER, GEORGIA DEPART- MENT OF CORRECTIONS, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[June 23, 2022]

															

															Justice Barrett, with whom Justice Thomas, Justice Alito, and Justice Gorsuch join, dissenting.

															An inmate must bring a method-of-execution challenge in a federal habeas application, rather than under

42 U. S. C. §1983, if “a grant of relief to the inmate would necessarily bar the execution.”  Hill v. McDonough,

547 U.S. 573, 583 (2006).  Under this criterion, Michael Nance must proceed in habeas because a judgment in his favor would “necessarily bar” the State from executing him.  Ibid.  Nance asked the District Court to “enjoin the Defendants from proceeding with [his] execution . . . by a lethal injection,” claiming that the use of such method would violate the
 
Eighth Amendment as applied to him.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 103a–104a.  But lethal injection is the only method of execution authorized under Georgia law.  See Ga. Code Ann. §17–10–38(a) (2020).  Thus, if Nance is successful, the defendants in this case—the commissioner of the Georgia Department of Corrections and the warden—will be powerless to carry out his sentence.  That makes habeas the right vehicle for Nance’s
 
Eighth Amendment challenge.

															The Court sees things differently.  True, Nance is arguing that the
 
Eighth Amendment renders his sentence invalid under current Georgia law.  But the Court points out that the law could change: The legislature could authorize execution by firing squad, the alternative method that Nance has proposed.  In fact, the Court says that Nance’s proposal offers Georgia a “veritable blueprint for carrying the death sentence out.”  Ante, at 8.  So an order in Nance’s favor would not “necessarily bar” the State from ever executing Nance, in the Court’s view.  Instead, the order would “giv[e] the State a pathway forward” if the legislature chooses to pursue the amendment process.  Ibid.

															The Court is looking too far down the road.  In my view, the consequence of the relief that a prisoner seeks depends on state law as it currently exists.  And under existing state law, there is no question that Nance’s challenge necessarily implies the invalidity of his lethal injection sentence: He seeks to prevent the State from executing him in the only way it lawfully can.

															In this respect, Nance’s method-of-execution challenge differs from those brought in Nelson v. Campbell,

541 U.S. 637 (2004), and Hill,

547 U.S. 573.  In Nelson, the inmate challenged the use of a “cut-down” procedure to access his veins.  541 U. S., at 640–642.  We held that the suit sounded in §1983 because it would not “necessarily prevent Alabama from carrying out its execution.”  Id., at 647.  We reasoned that, though venous access was an indispensable prerequisite to lethal injection, “a particular means of gaining such access” was not.  Id., at 645.  Notably, “[n]o Alabama statute require[d] use of the cut-down,” and the State did not put forward any “duly-promulgated regulations to the contrary.”  Id., at 646.  So even a successful challenge on these grounds “would have allowed the State to proceed with the execution as scheduled.”  Ibid.

															The same was true in Hill, which involved an inmate’s challenge to Florida’s three-drug protocol.  547 U. S., at 578.  We held that the inmate could proceed under §1983 because his “action if successful would not necessarily prevent the State from executing him by lethal injection.”  Id., at 580.  We emphasized that the complaint did “not challenge the lethal injection sentence as a general matter” but instead only “the anticipated protocol.”  Ibid.  As in Nelson, we stressed that Florida law did “not require the department of corrections to use the challenged procedure.”  547 U. S., at 580.  The State was “free to use an alternative lethal injection procedure,” and so we explained that “[u]nder these circumstances a grant of injunctive relief could not be seen as barring the execution of Hill’s sentence.”  Id., at 580–581.

															Here, by contrast, the warden and the commissioner are not free to use an alternative to lethal injection—so if Nance succeeds, they cannot carry out his sentence.  And though the Court contends otherwise, that consequence “switches Nance’s claim to the habeas track.”  Ante, at 8.  An inmate can use §1983 actions to challenge many, if not most, aspects of prison administration.  But when a challenge would prevent a State from enforcing a conviction or sentence, the more rigorous, federalism-protective requirements of habeas apply.  The Court finds a way around those requirements with a theory at odds with the very federalism interests they are designed to protect: that an injunction barring the State from enforcing a sentence according to state law does not really bar the State from enforcing the sentence because the State can pass a new law.

															Unlike the Court, I would take state law as we find it in determining whether a suit sounds in habeas or §1983.  The Court worries that this approach would make the appropriate federal vehicle “depend on the vagaries of state law.”  Ante, at 11.  Some States, like Georgia, provide for a single method of execution by statute; other States, like Alabama, allow for more flexibility.  See ibid.  So if state law determined the vehicle, an inmate in Georgia would have to challenge the lethal injection method in habeas, while an inmate in Alabama could use §1983.  But that does not illustrate “the vagaries of state law”; it is an unremarkable consequence of federalism.  States make different choices in exercising their power to define punishment, and the law has long recognized a sovereign’s interest in mandating a particular form of capital punishment.  Cf. 4 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 397 (1769) (a sheriff would be “guilty of felony” if he “alter[ed] the manner of the execution”).  Habeas is appropriate in Georgia because under Georgia law, to enjoin execution by lethal injection is to enjoin enforcement of the sentence itself.  See Ga. Code Ann. §17–10–38(a) (“All persons who have been convicted of a capital offense and have had imposed upon them a sentence of death shall suffer such punishment by lethal injection”).  In Alabama, enjoining execution by lethal injection does not have the same effect.  See Ala. Code §15–18–82.1(c) (2018) (permitting execution “by any constitutional method of execution” if the other methods provided for by statute are held unconstitutional).  The two sovereigns have made different choices about how to define punishment, and federal law is designed to respect the choice of each.

															I understand the impulse to find a way out of habeas and into §1983.  In States like Georgia, a claim under Bucklew v. Precythe, 587 U. S. ___ (2019), alleging an alternative method of execution not presently authorized by state law would be difficult to assert in a federal habeas application because it would “almost inevitably collide with the second-or-successive bar.”  Ante, at 12.  But we acknowledged that very possibility in Bucklew.  587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19).  And more importantly, the unavailability of federal habeas relief does not justify recourse to §1983.  Cf. Wilkinson v. Dotson,

544 U.S. 74, 87–88 (2005) (Scalia, J., concurring) (“[A] prisoner who wishes to challenge the length of his confinement, but who cannot obtain federal habeas relief because of the statute of limitations or the restrictions on successive petitions, cannot use the unavailability of federal habeas relief in his individual case as grounds for proceeding under §1983” (citations omitted)).  The habeas statutes funnel such challenges to the state courts—which are, after all, “the principal forum” for them.  Harrington v. Richter,

562 U.S. 86, 103 (2011).

															For these reasons, I respectfully dissent.
													
