::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-061
::decision_cite:: 21-418
::decision_name::  Kennedy v. Bremerton School District
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the
United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the
Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States,
Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal
errors, in order that corrections may be made before the
preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–418

															_________________

															JOSEPH A. KENNEDY, PETITIONER v.
BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 27, 2022]

															Justice Gorsuch delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															Joseph Kennedy lost his job as a high school
football coach because he knelt at midfield after games to offer a
quiet prayer of thanks. Mr. Kennedy prayed during a period when
school employees were free to speak with a friend, call for a
reservation at a restaurant, check email, or attend to other
personal matters. He offered his prayers quietly while his students
were otherwise occupied. Still, the Bremerton School District
disciplined him anyway. It did so because it thought anything less
could lead a reasonable observer to conclude (mistakenly) that it
endorsed Mr. Kennedy’s religious beliefs. That reasoning was
misguided. Both the Free Exercise and Free Speech Clauses of the
First Amendment protect expressions like Mr. Kennedy’s. Nor
does a proper understanding of the Amendment’s Establishment
Clause require the government to single out private religious
speech for special disfavor. The Constitution and the best of our
traditions counsel mutual respect and tolerance, not censorship and
suppression, for religious and nonreligious views alike.

															I

															A

															Joseph Kennedy began working as a football
coach at Bremerton High School in 2008 after nearly two decades of
service in the Marine Corps. App. 167. Like many other football
players and coaches across the country, Mr. Kennedy made it a
practice to give “thanks through prayer on the playing
field” at the conclusion of each game. Id., at 168,
171. In his prayers, Mr. Kennedy sought to express gratitude for
“what the players had accomplished and for the opportunity to
be part of their lives through the game of football.”
Id., at 168. Mr. Kennedy offered his prayers after the
players and coaches had shaken hands, by taking a knee at the
50-yard line and praying “quiet[ly]” for
“approximately 30 seconds.” Id., at
168–169.

															Initially, Mr. Kennedy prayed on his own. See
ibid. But over time, some players asked whether they could
pray alongside him. 991 F.3d 1004, 1010 (CA9 2021); App. 169. Mr.
Kennedy responded by saying, “ ‘This is a free
country. You can do what you want.’ ” Ibid.
The number of players who joined Mr. Kennedy eventually grew to
include most of the team, at least after some games. Sometimes team
members invited opposing players to join. Other times Mr. Kennedy
still prayed alone. See ibid. Eventually, Mr. Kennedy began
incorporating short motivational speeches with his prayer when
others were present. See id., at 170. Separately, the team
at times engaged in pregame or postgame prayers in the locker room.
It seems this practice was a “school tradition” that
predated Mr. Kennedy’s tenure. Ibid. Mr. Kennedy
explained that he “never told any student that it was
important they participate in any religious activity.”
Ibid. In particular, he “never pressured or encouraged
any student to join” his postgame midfield prayers.
Ibid.

															For over seven years, no one complained to the
Bremerton School District (District) about these practices. See
id., at 63–64. It seems the District’s
superintendent first learned of them only in September 2015, after
an employee from another school commented positively on the
school’s practices to Bremerton’s principal. See
id., at 109, 229. At that point, the District reacted
quickly. On September 17, the superintendent sent Mr. Kennedy a
letter. In it, the superintendent identified “two problematic
practices” in which Mr. Kennedy had engaged. App. 40. First,
Mr. Kennedy had provided “inspirational talk[s]” that
included “overtly religious references” likely
constituting “prayer” with the students “at
midfield following the completion of . . .
game[s].” Ibid. Second, he had led “students and
coaching staff in a prayer” in the locker-room tradition that
“predated [his] involvement with the program.”
Id., at 41.

															The District explained that it sought to
establish “clear parameters” “going
forward.” Ibid. It instructed Mr. Kennedy to avoid any
motivational “talks with students” that
“include[d] religious expression, including prayer,”
and to avoid “suggest[ing], encourag[ing] (or
discourag[ing]), or supervis[ing]” any prayers of students,
which students remained free to “engage in.”
Id., at 44. The District also explained that any religious
activity on Mr. Kennedy’s part must be
“nondemonstrative (i.e., not outwardly discernible as
religious activity)” if “students are also engaged in
religious conduct” in order to “avoid the perception of
endorsement.” Id., at 45. In offering these
directives, the District appealed to what it called a “direct
tension between” the “Establishment Clause” and
“a school employee’s [right to] free[ly]
exercise” his religion. Id., at 43. To resolve that
“tension,” the District explained, an employee’s
free exercise rights “must yield so far as necessary to avoid
school endorsement of religious activities.” Ibid.

															After receiving the District’s September
17 letter, Mr. Kennedy ended the tradition, predating him, of
offering locker-room prayers. Id., at 40–41, 77,
170–172. He also ended his practice of incorporating
religious references or prayer into his postgame motivational talks
to his team on the field. See ibid. Mr. Kennedy further felt
pressured to abandon his practice of saying his own quiet, on-field
postgame prayer. See id., at 172. Driving home after a game,
however, Mr. Kennedy felt upset that he had “broken [his]
commitment to God” by not offering his own prayer, so he
turned his car around and returned to the field. Ibid. By
that point, everyone had left the stadium, and he walked to the
50-yard line and knelt to say a brief prayer of thanks. See
ibid.

															On October 14, through counsel, Mr. Kennedy sent
a letter to school officials informing them that, because of his
“sincerely-held religious beliefs,” he felt
“compelled” to offer a “post-game personal
prayer” of thanks at midfield. Id., at 62–63,
172. He asked the District to allow him to continue that
“private religious expression” alone. Id., at
62. Consistent with the District’s policy, see id., at
48, Mr. Kennedy explained that he “neither requests,
encourages, nor discourages students from participating in”
these prayers, id., at 64. Mr. Kennedy emphasized that he
sought only the opportunity to “wai[t] until the game is over
and the players have left the field and then wal[k] to mid-field to
say a short, private, personal prayer.” Id., at 69. He
“told everybody” that it would be acceptable to him to
pray “when the kids went away from [him].” Id.,
at 292. He later clarified that this meant he was even willing to
say his “prayer while the players were walking to the locker
room” or “bus,” and then catch up with his team.
Id., at 280–282; see also id., at 59. However,
Mr. Kennedy objected to the logical implication of the
District’s September 17 letter, which he understood as
banning him “from bowing his head” in the vicinity of
students, and as requiring him to “flee the scene if students
voluntarily [came] to the same area” where he was praying.
Id., at 70. After all, District policy prohibited him from
“discourag[ing]” independent student decisions to pray.
Id., at 44.

															On October 16, shortly before the game that day,
the District responded with another letter. See id., at 76.
The District acknowledged that Mr. Kennedy “ha[d]
complied” with the “directives” in its September
17 letter. Id., at 77. Yet instead of accommodating Mr.
Kennedy’s request to offer a brief prayer on the field while
students were busy with other activities—whether heading to
the locker room, boarding the bus, or perhaps singing the school
fight song—the District issued an ultimatum. It forbade Mr.
Kennedy from engaging in “any overt actions” that could
“appea[r] to a reasonable observer to endorse . . .
prayer . . . while he is on duty as a District-paid
coach.” Id., at 81. The District did so because it
judged that anything less would lead it to violate the
Establishment Clause. Ibid.

															B

															After receiving this letter, Mr. Kennedy
offered a brief prayer following the October 16 game. See
id., at 90. When he bowed his head at midfield after the
game, “most [Bremerton] players were . . . engaged
in the traditional singing of the school fight song to the
audience.” Ibid. Though Mr. Kennedy was alone when he
began to pray, players from the other team and members of the
community joined him before he finished his prayer. See id.,
at 82, 297. This event spurred media coverage of Mr.
Kennedy’s dilemma and a public response from the District.
The District placed robocalls to parents to inform them that public
access to the field is forbidden; it posted signs and made
announcements at games saying the same thing; and it had the
Bremerton Police secure the field in future games. Id., at
100–101, 354–355. Subsequently, the District
superintendent explained in an October 20 email to the leader of a
state association of school administrators that “the coach
moved on from leading prayer with kids, to taking a silent prayer
at the 50 yard line.” Id., at 83. The official with
whom the superintendent corresponded acknowledged that the
“use of a silent prayer changes the equation a bit.”
Ibid. On October 21, the superintendent further observed to
a state official that “[t]he issue is quickly changing as it
has shifted from leading prayer with student athletes, to a coaches
[sic] right to conduct” his own prayer “on the
50 yard line.” Id., at 88.

															On October 23, shortly before that
evening’s game, the District wrote Mr. Kennedy again. It
expressed “appreciation” for his “efforts to
comply” with the District’s directives, including
avoiding “on-the-job prayer with players in
the . . . football program, both in the locker room
prior to games as well as on the field immediately following
games.” Id., at 90. The letter also admitted that,
during Mr. Kennedy’s recent October 16 postgame prayer, his
students were otherwise engaged and not praying with him, and that
his prayer was “fleeting.” Id., at 90, 93.
Still, the District explained that a “reasonable
observer” could think government endorsement of religion had
occurred when a “District employee, on the field only by
virtue of his employment with the District, still on duty”
engaged in “overtly religious conduct.” Id., at
91, 93. The District thus made clear that the only option it would
offer Mr. Kennedy was to allow him to pray after a game in a
“private location” behind closed doors and “not
observable to students or the public.” Id., at
93–94.

															After the October 23 game ended, Mr. Kennedy
knelt at the 50-yard line, where “no one joined him,”
and bowed his head for a “brief, quiet prayer.” 991
F. 3d, at 1019; App. 173, 236–239. The superintendent
informed the District’s board that this prayer “moved
closer to what we want,” but nevertheless remained
“unconstitutional.” Id., at 96. After the final
relevant football game on October 26, Mr. Kennedy again knelt alone
to offer a brief prayer as the players engaged in postgame
traditions. 443 F. Supp. 3d 1223, 1231 (WD Wash. 2020); App.
to Pet. for Cert. 182. While he was praying, other adults gathered
around him on the field. See 443 F. Supp. 3d, at 1231; App.
97. Later, Mr. Kennedy rejoined his players for a postgame talk,
after they had finished singing the school fight song. 443
F. Supp. 3d, at 1231; App. 103.

															C

															Shortly after the October 26 game, the
District placed Mr. Kennedy on paid administrative leave and
prohibited him from “participat[ing], in any capacity, in
. . . football program activities.” Ibid. In
a letter explaining the reasons for this disciplinary action, the
superintendent criticized Mr. Kennedy for engaging in “public
and demonstrative religious conduct while still on duty as an
assistant coach” by offering a prayer following the games on
October 16, 23, and 26. Id., at 102. The letter did not
allege that Mr. Kennedy performed these prayers with students, and
it acknowledged that his prayers took place while students were
engaged in unrelated postgame activities. Id., at 103.
Additionally, the letter faulted Mr. Kennedy for not being willing
to pray behind closed doors. Id., at 102.

															In an October 28 Q&A document provided to
the public, the District admitted that it possessed “no
evidence that students have been directly coerced to pray with
Kennedy.” Id., at 105. The Q&A also acknowledged
that Mr. Kennedy “ha[d] complied” with the
District’s instruction to refrain from his “prior
practices of leading players in a pre-game prayer in the locker
room or leading players in a post-game prayer immediately following
games.” Ibid. But the Q&A asserted that the
District could not allow Mr. Kennedy to “engage in a public
religious display.” Id., at 105, 107, 110. Otherwise,
the District would “violat[e] the . . .
Establishment Clause” because “reasonable
. . . students and attendees” might perceive the
“district [as] endors[ing] . . . religion.”
Id., at 105.

															While Mr. Kennedy received “uniformly
positive evaluations” every other year of his coaching
career, after the 2015 season ended in November, the District gave
him a poor performance evaluation. Kennedy v. Bremerton
School Dist., 869 F.3d 813, 820 (CA9 2017). The evaluation
advised against rehiring Mr. Kennedy on the grounds that he
“ ‘failed to follow district
policy’ ” regarding religious expression and
“ ‘failed to supervise student-athletes after
games.’ ” Ibid. Mr. Kennedy did not return
for the next season. Ibid.

															II

															A

															After these events, Mr. Kennedy sued in
federal court, alleging that the District’s actions violated
the First Amendment’s Free Speech and Free Exercise Clauses.
App. 145, 160–164. He also moved for a preliminary injunction
requiring the District to reinstate him. The District Court denied
that motion, concluding that a “reasonable
observer . . . would have seen him as
. . . leading an orchestrated session of faith.”
App. to Pet. for Cert. 303. Indeed, if the District had not
suspended him, the court agreed, it might have violated the
Constitution’s Establishment Clause. See id., at
302–303. On appeal, the Ninth Circuit affirmed.
Kennedy, 869 F. 3d, at 831.

															Following the Ninth Circuit’s ruling, Mr.
Kennedy sought certiorari in this Court. The Court denied the
petition. But Justice Alito, joined by three other Members of the
Court, issued a statement stressing that “denial of
certiorari does not signify that the Court necessarily agrees with
the decision . . . below.” Kennedy v.
Bremerton School Dist., 586 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip
op., at 1). Justice Alito expressed concerns with the lower
courts’ decisions, including the possibility that, under
their reasoning, teachers might be “ordered not to engage in
any ‘demonstrative’ conduct of a religious
nature” within view of students, even to the point of being
forbidden from “folding their hands or bowing their heads in
prayer” before lunch. Id., at ___
(slip op., at 4).

															B

															After the case returned to the District Court,
the parties engaged in discovery and eventually brought
cross-motions for summary judgment. At the end of that process, the
District Court found that the “ ‘sole
reason’ ” for the District’s decision to
suspend Mr. Kennedy was its perceived “risk of constitutional
liability” under the Establishment Clause for his
“religious conduct” after the October 16, 23, and 26
games. 443 F. Supp. 3d, at 1231.

															The court found that reason persuasive too.
Rejecting Mr. Kennedy’s free speech claim, the court
concluded that because Mr. Kennedy “was hired precisely to
occupy” an “influential role for student
athletes,” any speech he uttered was offered in his capacity
as a government employee and unprotected by the First Amendment.
Id., at 1237. Alternatively, even if Mr. Kennedy’s
speech qualified as private speech, the District Court reasoned,
the District properly suppressed it. Had it done otherwise, the
District would have invited “an Establishment Clause
violation.” Ibid. Turning to Mr. Kennedy’s free
exercise claim, the District Court held that, even if the
District’s policies restricting his religious exercise were
not neutral toward religion or generally applicable, the District
had a compelling interest in prohibiting his postgame prayers,
because, once more, had it “allow[ed]” them it
“would have violated the Establishment Clause.”
Id., at 1240.

															C

															The Ninth Circuit affirmed. It agreed with the
District Court that Mr. Kennedy’s speech qualified as
government rather than private speech because “his expression
on the field—a location that he only had access to because of
his employment—during a time when he was generally tasked
with communicating with students, was speech as a government
employee.” 991 F. 3d, at 1015. Like the District Court,
the Ninth Circuit further reasoned that, “even if we were to
assume . . . that Kennedy spoke as a private
citizen,” the District had an “adequate
justification” for its actions. Id., at 1016.
According to the court, “Kennedy’s on-field religious
activity,” coupled with what the court called “his
pugilistic efforts to generate publicity in order to gain approval
of those on-field religious activities,” were enough to lead
an “objective observer” to conclude that the District
“endorsed Kennedy’s religious activity by not stopping
the practice.” Id., at 1017–1018. And that, the
court held, would amount to a violation of the Establishment
Clause. Ibid.

															The Court of Appeals rejected Mr.
Kennedy’s free exercise claim for similar reasons. The
District “concede[d]” that its policy that led to Mr.
Kennedy’s suspension was not “neutral and generally
applicable” and instead “restrict[ed] Kennedy’s
religious conduct because the conduct [was] religious.”
Id., at 1020. Still, the court ruled, the District
“had a compelling state interest to avoid violating the
Establishment Clause,” and its suspension was narrowly
tailored to vindicate that interest. Id., at
1020–1021.

															Later, the Ninth Circuit denied a petition to
rehear the case en banc over the dissents of 11 judges. 4 F. 4th
910, 911 (2021). Among other things, the dissenters argued that the
panel erred by holding that a failure to discipline Mr. Kennedy
would have led the District to violate the Establishment Clause.
Several dissenters noted that the panel’s analysis rested on
Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403 U.S.
602 (1971), and its progeny for the proposition that the
Establishment Clause is implicated whenever a hypothetical
reasonable observer could conclude the government endorses
religion. 4 F. 4th, at 945–947 (opinion of R. Nelson, J.).
These dissenters argued that this Court has long since abandoned
that “ahistorical, atextual” approach to discerning
“Establishment Clause violations”; they observed that
other courts around the country have followed suit by renouncing it
too; and they contended that the panel should have likewise
“recognized Lemon’s demise and wisely left it
dead.” Ibid., and n. 3. We granted certiorari. 595
U. S. ___ (2022).

															III

															Now before us, Mr. Kennedy renews his argument
that the District’s conduct violated both the Free Exercise
and Free Speech Clauses of the First Amendment. These Clauses work
in tandem. Where the Free Exercise Clause protects religious
exercises, whether communicative or not, the Free Speech Clause
provides overlapping protection for expressive religious
activities. See, e.g., Widmar v. Vincent,
454 U.S.
263, 269, n. 6 (1981); Rosenberger v. Rector and
Visitors of Univ. of Va., 515 U.S.
819, 841 (1995). That the First Amendment doubly protects
religious speech is no accident. It is a natural outgrowth of the
framers’ distrust of government attempts to regulate religion
and suppress dissent. See, e.g., A Memorial and Remonstrance
Against Religious Assessments, in Selected Writings of James
Madison 21, 25 (R. Ketcham ed. 2006). “[I]n
Anglo–American history, . . . government
suppression of speech has so commonly been directed
precisely at religious speech that a free-speech clause
without religion would be Hamlet without the prince.”
Capitol Square Review and Advisory Bd. v. Pinette,
515 U.S.
753, 760 (1995).

															Under this Court’s precedents, a plaintiff
bears certain burdens to demonstrate an infringement of his rights
under the Free Exercise and Free Speech Clauses. If the plaintiff
carries these burdens, the focus then shifts to the defendant to
show that its actions were nonetheless justified and tailored
consistent with the demands of our case law. See, e.g.,
Fulton v. Philadelphia, 593 U. S. ___,
___–___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 4–5, 13); Reed
v. Town of Gilbert, 576 U.S. 155, 171 (2015);
Garcetti v. Ceballos, 547
U.S. 410, 418 (2006); Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye,
Inc. v. Hialeah, 508 U.S.
520, 546 (1993); Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U.S.
398, 403 (1963). We begin by examining whether Mr. Kennedy has
discharged his burdens, first under the Free Exercise Clause, then
under the Free Speech Clause.

															A

															The Free Exercise Clause provides that
“Congress shall make no law . . . prohibiting the
free exercise” of religion. Amdt. 1. This Court has held the
Clause applicable to the States under the terms of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U.S.
296, 303 (1940). The Clause protects not only the right to
harbor religious beliefs inwardly and secretly. It does perhaps its
most important work by protecting the ability of those who hold
religious beliefs of all kinds to live out their faiths in daily
life through “the performance of (or abstention from)
physical acts.” Employment Div., Dept. of Human
Resources of Ore. v. Smith, 494
U.S. 872, 877 (1990).

															Under this Court’s precedents, a plaintiff
may carry the burden of proving a free exercise violation in
various ways, including by showing that a government entity has
burdened his sincere religious practice pursuant to a policy that
is not “neutral” or “generally applicable.”
Id., at 879–881. Should a plaintiff make a showing
like that, this Court will find a First Amendment violation unless
the government can satisfy “strict scrutiny” by
demonstrating its course was justified by a compelling state
interest and was narrowly tailored in pursuit of that interest.
Lukumi, 508 U. S., at 546.[1]

															That Mr. Kennedy has discharged his burdens is
effectively undisputed. No one questions that he seeks to engage in
a sincerely motivated religious exercise. The exercise in question
involves, as Mr. Kennedy has put it, giving “thanks through
prayer” briefly and by himself “on the playing
field” at the conclusion of each game he coaches. App. 168,
171. Mr. Kennedy has indicated repeatedly that he is willing to
“wai[t] until the game is over and the players have left the
field” to “wal[k] to mid-field to say [his] short,
private, personal prayer.” Id., at 69; see also
id., at 280, 282. The contested exercise before us does not
involve leading prayers with the team or before any other captive
audience. Mr. Kennedy’s “religious beliefs do not
require [him] to lead any prayer . . . involving
students.” Id., at 170. At the District’s
request, he voluntarily discontinued the school tradition of
locker-room prayers and his postgame religious talks to students.
The District disciplined him only for his decision to
persist in praying quietly without his players after three games in
October 2015. See Parts I–B and I–C, supra.

															Nor does anyone question that, in forbidding Mr.
Kennedy’s brief prayer, the District failed to act pursuant
to a neutral and generally applicable rule. A government policy
will not qualify as neutral if it is “specifically directed
at . . . religious practice.” Smith, 494
U. S., at 878. A policy can fail this test if it
“discriminate[s] on its face,” or if a religious
exercise is otherwise its “object.” Lukumi, 508
U. S., at 533; see also Smith, 494 U. S., at 878.
A government policy will fail the general applicability requirement
if it “prohibits religious conduct while permitting secular
conduct that undermines the government’s asserted interests
in a similar way,” or if it provides “a mechanism for
individualized exemptions.” Fulton, 593 U. S., at
___ (slip op., at 6). Failing either the neutrality or general
applicability test is sufficient to trigger strict scrutiny. See
Lukumi, 508 U. S., at 546.

															In this case, the District’s challenged
policies were neither neutral nor generally applicable. By its own
admission, the District sought to restrict Mr. Kennedy’s
actions at least in part because of their religious character. As
it put it in its September 17 letter, the District prohibited
“any overt actions on Mr. Kennedy’s part, appearing to
a reasonable observer to endorse even voluntary, student-initiated
prayer.” App. 81. The District further explained that it
could not allow “an employee, while still on duty, to engage
in religious conduct.” Id., at 106 (emphasis
added). Prohibiting a religious practice was thus the
District’s unquestioned “object.” The District
candidly acknowledged as much below, conceding that its policies
were “not neutral” toward religion. 991 F. 3d, at
1020.

															The District’s challenged policies also
fail the general applicability test. The District’s
performance evaluation after the 2015 football season advised
against rehiring Mr. Kennedy on the ground that he “failed to
supervise student- athletes after games.” App. 114. But, in
fact, this was a bespoke requirement specifically addressed to Mr.
Kennedy’s religious exercise. The District permitted other
members of the coaching staff to forgo supervising students briefly
after the game to do things like visit with friends or take
personal phone calls. App. 205; see also Part I–B,
supra. Thus, any sort of postgame supervisory requirement
was not applied in an evenhanded, across-the-board way. Again
recognizing as much, the District conceded before the Ninth Circuit
that its challenged directives were not “generally
applicable.” 991 F. 3d, at 1020.

															B

															When it comes to Mr. Kennedy’s free
speech claim, our precedents remind us that the First
Amendment’s protections extend to “teachers and
students,” neither of whom “shed their constitutional
rights to freedom of speech or expression at the schoolhouse
gate.” Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community
School Dist., 393 U.S.
503, 506 (1969); see also Lane v. Franks,
573 U.S.
228, 231 (2014). Of course, none of this means the speech
rights of public school employees are so boundless that they may
deliver any message to anyone anytime they wish. In addition to
being private citizens, teachers and coaches are also government
employees paid in part to speak on the government’s behalf
and convey its intended messages.

															To account for the complexity associated with
the interplay between free speech rights and government employment,
this Court’s decisions in Pickering v. Board of Ed.
of Township High School Dist. 205, Will Cty., 391 U.S.
563 (1968), Garcetti, 547 U.S.
410, and related cases suggest proceeding in two steps. The
first step involves a threshold inquiry into the nature of the
speech at issue. If a public employee speaks “pursuant to
[his or her] official duties,” this Court has said the Free
Speech Clause generally will not shield the individual from an
employer’s control and discipline because that kind of speech
is—for constitutional purposes at least—the
government’s own speech. Id., at 421.

															At the same time and at the other end of the
spectrum, when an employee “speaks as a citizen addressing a
matter of public concern,” our cases indicate that the First
Amendment may be implicated and courts should proceed to a second
step. Id., at 423. At this second step, our cases suggest
that courts should attempt to engage in “a delicate balancing
of the competing interests surrounding the speech and its
consequences.” Ibid. Among other things, courts at
this second step have sometimes considered whether an
employee’s speech interests are outweighed by
“ ‘the interest of the State, as an employer, in
promoting the efficiency of the public services it performs through
its employees.’ ” Id., at 417 (quoting
Pickering, 391 U. S., at 568).

															Both sides ask us to employ at least certain
aspects of this Pickering–Garcetti framework to
resolve Mr. Kennedy’s free speech claim. They share
additional common ground too. They agree that Mr. Kennedy’s
speech implicates a matter of public concern. See App. to Pet. for
Cert. 183; Brief for Respondent 44. They also appear to accept, at
least for argument’s sake, that Mr. Kennedy’s speech
does not raise questions of academic freedom that may or may not
involve “additional” First Amendment
“interests” beyond those captured by this framework.
Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 425; see also Keyishian
v. Board of Regents of Univ. of State of N. Y.,
385 U.S.
589, 603 (1967); Brief for Petitioner 26, n. 2. At the first
step of the Pickering–Garcetti inquiry, the
parties’ disagreement thus turns out to center on one
question alone: Did Mr. Kennedy offer his prayers in his capacity
as a private citizen, or did they amount to government speech
attributable to the District?

															Our cases offer some helpful guidance for
resolving this question. In Garcetti, the Court concluded
that a prosecutor’s internal memorandum to a supervisor was
made “pursuant to [his] official duties,” and thus
ineligible for First Amendment protection. 547 U. S., at 421.
In reaching this conclusion, the Court relied on the fact that the
prosecutor’s speech “fulfill[ed] a responsibility to
advise his supervisor about how best to proceed with a pending
case.” Ibid. In other words, the prosecutor’s
memorandum was government speech because it was speech the
government “itself ha[d] commissioned or created” and
speech the employee was expected to deliver in the course of
carrying out his job. Id., at 422.

															By contrast, in Lane a public employer
sought to terminate an employee after he testified at a criminal
trial about matters involving his government employment. 573
U. S., at 233. The Court held that the employee’s speech
was protected by the First Amendment. Id., at 231. In doing
so, the Court held that the fact the speech touched on matters
related to public employment was not enough to render it government
speech. Id., at 239–240. Instead, the Court explained,
the “critical question . . . is whether the speech
at issue is itself ordinarily within the scope of an
employee’s duties.” Id., at 240. It is an
inquiry this Court has said should be undertaken
“practical[ly],” rather than with a blinkered focus on
the terms of some formal and capacious written job description.
Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 424. To proceed otherwise would
be to allow public employers to use “excessively broad job
descriptions” to subvert the Constitution’s
protections. Ibid.

															Applying these lessons here, it seems clear to
us that Mr. Kennedy has demonstrated that his speech was private
speech, not government speech. When Mr. Kennedy uttered the three
prayers that resulted in his suspension, he was not engaged in
speech “ordinarily within the scope” of his duties as a
coach. Lane, 573 U. S., at 240. He did not speak
pursuant to government policy. He was not seeking to convey a
government-created message. He was not instructing players,
discussing strategy, encouraging better on-field performance, or
engaged in any other speech the District paid him to produce as a
coach. See Part I–B, supra. Simply put: Mr.
Kennedy’s prayers did not “ow[e their] existence”
to Mr. Kennedy’s responsibilities as a public employee.
Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 421.

															The timing and circumstances of Mr.
Kennedy’s prayers confirm the point. During the postgame
period when these prayers occurred, coaches were free to attend
briefly to personal matters—everything from checking sports
scores on their phones to greeting friends and family in the
stands. App. 205; see Part I–B, supra. We find it
unlikely that Mr. Kennedy was fulfilling a responsibility imposed
by his employment by praying during a period in which the District
has acknowledged that its coaching staff was free to engage in all
manner of private speech. That Mr. Kennedy offered his prayers when
students were engaged in other activities like singing the school
fight song further suggests that those prayers were not delivered
as an address to the team, but instead in his capacity as a private
citizen. Nor is it dispositive that Mr. Kennedy’s prayers
took place “within the office” environment—here,
on the field of play. Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 421.
Instead, what matters is whether Mr. Kennedy offered his prayers
while acting within the scope of his duties as a coach. And taken
together, both the substance of Mr. Kennedy’s speech and the
circumstances surrounding it point to the conclusion that he did
not.

															In reaching its contrary conclusion, the Ninth
Circuit stressed that, as a coach, Mr. Kennedy served as a role
model “clothed with the mantle of one who imparts knowledge
and wisdom.” 991 F. 3d, at 1015. The court emphasized that
Mr. Kennedy remained on duty after games. Id., at 1016.
Before us, the District presses the same arguments. See Brief for
Respondent 24. And no doubt they have a point. Teachers and coaches
often serve as vital role models. But this argument commits the
error of positing an “excessively broad job
descriptio[n]” by treating everything teachers and coaches
say in the workplace as government speech subject to government
control. Garcetti, 547 U. S., at 424. On this
understanding, a school could fire a Muslim teacher for wearing a
headscarf in the classroom or prohibit a Christian aide from
praying quietly over her lunch in the cafeteria. Likewise, this
argument ignores the District Court’s conclusion (and the
District’s concession) that Mr. Kennedy’s actual job
description left time for a private moment after the game to call
home, check a text, socialize, or engage in any manner of secular
activities. Others working for the District were free to engage
briefly in personal speech and activity. App. 205; see Part
I–B, supra. That Mr. Kennedy chose to use the same
time to pray does not transform his speech into government speech.
To hold differently would be to treat religious expression as
second-class speech and eviscerate this Court’s repeated
promise that teachers do not “shed their constitutional
rights to freedom of speech or expression at the schoolhouse
gate.” Tinker, 393 U. S., at 506.

															Of course, acknowledging that Mr.
Kennedy’s prayers represented his own private speech does not
end the matter. So far, we have recognized only that Mr. Kennedy
has carried his threshold burden. Under the
Pickering–Garcetti framework, a second step
remains where the government may seek to prove that its interests
as employer outweigh even an employee’s private speech on a
matter of public concern. See Lane, 573 U. S., at 236,
242.[2]

															IV

															Whether one views the case through the lens of
the Free Exercise or Free Speech Clause, at this point the burden
shifts to the District. Under the Free Exercise Clause, a
government entity normally must satisfy at least “strict
scrutiny,” showing that its restrictions on the
plaintiff ’s protected rights serve a compelling
interest and are narrowly tailored to that end. See Lukumi,
508 U. S., at 533; n. 1, supra. A similar standard
generally obtains under the Free Speech Clause. See Reed,
576 U. S., at 171. The District, however, asks us to apply to
Mr. Kennedy’s claims the more lenient second-step
Pickering–Garcetti test, or alternatively
intermediate scrutiny. See Brief for Respondent 44–48.
Ultimately, however, it does not matter which standard we apply.
The District cannot sustain its burden under any of them.[3]

															A

															As we have seen, the District argues that its
suspension of Mr. Kennedy was essential to avoid a violation of the
Establishment Clause. Id., at 35–42. On its account,
Mr. Kennedy’s prayers might have been protected by the Free
Exercise and Free Speech Clauses. But his rights were in
“direct tension” with the competing demands of the
Establishment Clause. App. 43. To resolve that clash, the District
reasoned, Mr. Kennedy’s rights had to “yield.”
Ibid. The Ninth Circuit pursued this same line of thinking,
insisting that the District’s interest in avoiding an
Establishment Clause violation
“ ‘trump[ed]’ ” Mr.
Kennedy’s rights to religious exercise and free speech. 991
F. 3d, at 1017; see also id., at 1020–1021.

															But how could that be? It is true that this
Court and others often refer to the “Establishment
Clause,” the “Free Exercise Clause,” and the
“Free Speech Clause” as separate units. But the three
Clauses appear in the same sentence of the same Amendment:
“Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging
the freedom of speech.” Amdt. 1. A natural reading of that
sentence would seem to suggest the Clauses have
“complementary” purposes, not warring ones where one
Clause is always sure to prevail over the others. See
Everson v. Board of Ed. of Ewing, 330 U.S.
1, 13, 15 (1947).

															The District arrived at a different
understanding this way. It began with the premise that the
Establishment Clause is offended whenever a “reasonable
observer” could conclude that the government has
“endorse[d]” religion. App. 81. The District then took
the view that a “reasonable observer” could think it
“endorsed Kennedy’s religious activity by not stopping
the practice.” 991 F. 3d, at 1018; see also App.
80–81; Parts I and II, supra. On the District’s
account, it did not matter whether the Free Exercise Clause
protected Mr. Kennedy’s prayer. It did not matter if his
expression was private speech protected by the Free Speech Clause.
It did not matter that the District never actually endorsed Mr.
Kennedy’s prayer, no one complained that it had, and a strong
public reaction only followed after the District sought to ban Mr.
Kennedy’s prayer. Because a reasonable observer could
(mistakenly) infer that by allowing the prayer the District
endorsed Mr. Kennedy’s message, the District felt it had to
act, even if that meant suppressing otherwise protected First
Amendment activities. In this way, the District effectively created
its own “vise between the Establishment Clause on one side
and the Free Speech and Free Exercise Clauses on the other,”
placed itself in the middle, and then chose its preferred way out
of its self-imposed trap. See Pinette, 515 U. S., at
768 (plurality opinion); Shurtleff v. Boston, 596
U. S. ___, ___–___ (2022) (Gorsuch, J., concurring in
judgment) (slip op., at 4–5).

															To defend its approach, the District relied on
Lemon and its progeny. See App. 43–45. In upholding
the District’s actions, the Ninth Circuit followed the same
course. See Part II–C, supra. And, to be sure, in
Lemon this Court attempted a “grand unified
theory” for assessing Establishment Clause claims.
American Legion v. American Humanist Assn., 588
U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 24).
That approach called for an examination of a law’s purposes,
effects, and potential for entanglement with religion.
Lemon, 403 U. S., at 612–613. In time, the
approach also came to involve estimations about whether a
“reasonable observer” would consider the
government’s challenged action an “endorsement”
of religion. See, e.g., County of Allegheny v.
American Civil Liberties Union, Greater Pittsburgh
Chapter, 492 U.S.
573, 593 (1989); id., at 630 (O’Connor, J.,
concurring in part and concurring in judgment); Shurtleff,
596 U. S., at ___ (opinion of Gorsuch, J.) (slip op., at
3).

															What the District and the Ninth Circuit
overlooked, however, is that the “shortcomings”
associated with this “ambitiou[s],” abstract, and
ahistorical approach to the Establishment Clause became so
“apparent” that this Court long ago abandoned
Lemon and its endorsement test offshoot. American
Legion, 588 U. S., at ___–___ (plurality opinion)
(slip op., at 12–13); see also Town of Greece v.
Galloway, 572
U.S. 565, 575–577 (2014). The Court has explained that
these tests “invited chaos” in lower courts, led to
“differing results” in materially identical cases, and
created a “minefield” for legislators. Pinette,
515 U. S., at 768–769, n. 3 (plurality opinion)
(emphasis deleted). This Court has since made plain, too, that the
Establishment Clause does not include anything like a
“modified heckler’s veto, in which . . .
religious activity can be proscribed” based on
“ ‘perceptions’ ” or
“ ‘discomfort.’ ” Good News
Club v. Milford Central School, 533 U.S.
98, 119 (2001) (emphasis deleted). An Establishment Clause
violation does not automatically follow whenever a public school or
other government entity “fail[s] to censor” private
religious speech. Board of Ed. of Westside Community Schools
(Dist. 66) v. Mergens, 496 U.S.
226, 250 (1990) (plurality opinion). Nor does the Clause
“compel the government to purge from the public sphere”
anything an objective observer could reasonably infer endorses or
“partakes of the religious.” Van Orden v.
Perry, 545
U.S. 677, 699 (2005) (Breyer, J., concurring in judgment). In
fact, just this Term the Court unanimously rejected a city’s
attempt to censor religious speech based on Lemon and the
endorsement test. See Shurtleff, 596 U. S., at
___–___ (slip op., at 1–2); id., at ___ (Alito,
J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 1); id., at ___,
___–___ (opinion of Gorsuch, J.) (slip op., at 1,
4–5).[4]

															In place of Lemon and the endorsement
test, this Court has instructed that the Establishment Clause must
be interpreted by “ ‘reference to historical
practices and understandings.’ ” Town of
Greece, 572 U. S., at 576; see also American
Legion, 588 U. S., at ___ (plurality opinion) (slip op.,
at 25). “ ‘[T]he line’ ” that
courts and governments “must draw between the permissible and
the impermissible” has to “ ‘accor[d ]
with history and faithfully reflec[t ] the understanding of
the Founding Fathers.’ ” Town of Greece,
572 U. S., at 577 (quoting School Dist. of Abington
Township v. Schempp, 374 U.S.
203, 294 (1963) (Brennan, J., concurring)). An analysis focused
on original meaning and history, this Court has stressed, has long
represented the rule rather than some
“ ‘exception’ ” within the
“Court’s Establishment Clause jurisprudence.” 572
U. S., at 575; see American Legion, 588 U. S., at
___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 25); Torcaso v.
Watkins, 367 U.S.
488, 490 (1961) (analyzing certain historical elements of
religious establishments); McGowan v. Maryland,
366 U.S.
420, 437–440 (1961) (analyzing Sunday closing laws by
looking to their “place . . . in the First
Amendment’s history”); Walz v. Tax
Comm’n of City of New York, 397 U.S.
664, 680 (1970) (analyzing the “history and uninterrupted
practice” of church tax exemptions). The District and the
Ninth Circuit erred by failing to heed this guidance.

															B

															Perhaps sensing that the primary theory it
pursued below rests on a mistaken understanding of the
Establishment Clause, the District offers a backup argument in this
Court. It still contends that its Establishment Clause concerns
trump Mr. Kennedy’s free exercise and free speech rights. But
the District now seeks to supply different reasoning for that
result. Now, it says, it was justified in suppressing Mr.
Kennedy’s religious activity because otherwise it would have
been guilty of coercing students to pray. See Brief for Respondent
34–37. And, the District says, coercing worship amounts to an
Establishment Clause violation on anyone’s account of the
Clause’s original meaning.

															As it turns out, however, there is a pretty
obvious reason why the Ninth Circuit did not adopt this theory in
proceedings below: The evidence cannot sustain it. To be sure, this
Court has long held that government may not, consistent with a
historically sensitive understanding of the Establishment Clause,
“make a religious observance compulsory.” Zorach
v. Clauson, 343 U.S.
306, 314 (1952). Government “may not coerce anyone to
attend church,” ibid., nor may it force citizens to
engage in “a formal religious exercise,” Lee v.
Weisman, 505
U.S. 577, 589 (1992). No doubt, too, coercion along these lines
was among the foremost hallmarks of religious establishments the
framers sought to prohibit when they adopted the First
Amendment.[5] Members of this
Court have sometimes disagreed on what exactly qualifies as
impermissible coercion in light of the original meaning of the
Establishment Clause. Compare Lee, 505 U. S., at 593,
with id., at 640–641 (Scalia, J., dissenting). But in
this case Mr. Kennedy’s private religious exercise did not
come close to crossing any line one might imagine separating
protected private expression from impermissible government
coercion.

															Begin with the District’s own
contemporaneous description of the facts. In its correspondence
with Mr. Kennedy, the District never raised coercion concerns. To
the contrary, the District conceded in a public 2015 document that
there was “no evidence that students [were] directly coerced
to pray with Kennedy.” App. 105. This is consistent with Mr.
Kennedy’s account too. He has repeatedly stated that he
“never coerced, required, or asked any student to
pray,” and that he never “told any student that it was
important that they participate in any religious activity.”
Id., at 170.

															Consider, too, the actual requests Mr. Kennedy
made. The District did not discipline Mr. Kennedy for engaging in
prayer while presenting locker-room speeches to students. That
tradition predated Mr. Kennedy at the school. App. 170. And he
willingly ended it, as the District has acknowledged. Id.,
at 77, 170. He also willingly ended his practice of postgame
religious talks with his team. Id., at 70, 77,
170–172. The only prayer Mr. Kennedy sought to continue was
the kind he had “started out doing” at the beginning of
his tenure—the prayer he gave alone. Id., at
293–294. He made clear that he could pray “while the
kids were doing the fight song” and “take a knee by
[him]self and give thanks and continue on.” Id., at
294. Mr. Kennedy even considered it “acceptable” to say
his “prayer while the players were walking to the locker
room” or “bus,” and then catch up with his team.
Id., at 280, 282; see also id., at 59 (proposing the
team leave the field for the prayer). In short, Mr. Kennedy did not
seek to direct any prayers to students or require anyone else to
participate. His plan was to wait to pray until athletes were
occupied, and he “told everybody” that’s what he
wished “to do.” Id., at 292. It was for three
prayers of this sort alone in October 2015 that the District
suspended him. See Parts I–B and I–C, supra.

															Naturally, Mr. Kennedy’s proposal to pray
quietly by himself on the field would have meant some people would
have seen his religious exercise. Those close at hand might have
heard him too. But learning how to tolerate speech or prayer of all
kinds is “part of learning how to live in a pluralistic
society,” a trait of character essential to “a tolerant
citizenry.” Lee, 505 U. S., at 590. This Court
has long recognized as well that “secondary school students
are mature enough . . . to understand that a school does
not endorse,” let alone coerce them to participate in,
“speech that it merely permits on a nondiscriminatory
basis.” Mergens, 496 U. S., at 250 (plurality
opinion). Of course, some will take offense to certain forms of
speech or prayer they are sure to encounter in a society where
those activities enjoy such robust constitutional protection. But
“[o]ffense . . . does not equate to
coercion.” Town of Greece, 572 U. S., at 589
(plurality opinion).

															The District responds that, as a coach, Mr.
Kennedy “wielded enormous authority and influence over the
students,” and students might have felt compelled to pray
alongside him. Brief for Respondent 37. To support this argument,
the District submits that, after Mr. Kennedy’s suspension, a
few parents told District employees that their sons had
“participated in the team prayers only because they did not
wish to separate themselves from the team.” App. 356.

															This reply fails too. Not only does the District
rely on hearsay to advance it. For all we can tell, the concerns
the District says it heard from parents were occasioned by the
locker-room prayers that predated Mr. Kennedy’s tenure or his
postgame religious talks, all of which he discontinued at the
District’s request. There is no indication in the record that
anyone expressed any coercion concerns to the District about the
quiet, postgame prayers that Mr. Kennedy asked to continue and that
led to his suspension. Nor is there any record evidence that
students felt pressured to participate in these prayers. To the
contrary, and as we have seen, not a single Bremerton student
joined Mr. Kennedy’s quiet prayers following the three
October 2015 games for which he was disciplined. On October 16,
those students who joined Mr. Kennedy were “ ‘from
the opposing team,’ ” 991 F. 3d, at
1012–1013, and thus could not have “reasonably
fear[ed]” that he would decrease their “playing
time” or destroy their “opportunities” if they
did not “participate,” Brief for Respondent 43. As for
the other two relevant games, “no one joined” Mr.
Kennedy on October 23. 991 F. 3d, at 1019. And only a few
members of the public participated on October 26. App. 97,
314–315; see also Part I–B, supra.[6]

															The absence of evidence of coercion in this
record leaves the District to its final redoubt. Here, the District
suggests that any visible religious conduct by a teacher or
coach should be deemed—without more and as a matter of
law—impermissibly coercive on students. In essence, the
District asks us to adopt the view that the only acceptable
government role models for students are those who eschew any
visible religious expression. See also post, at 16–17
(Sotomayor, J., dissenting). If the argument sounds familiar,
it should. Really, it is just another way of repackaging the
District’s earlier submission that government may script
everything a teacher or coach says in the workplace. See Part
III–B, supra. The only added twist here is the
District’s suggestion not only that it may prohibit
teachers from engaging in any demonstrative religious activity, but
that it must do so in order to conform to the
Constitution.

															Such a rule would be a sure sign that our
Establishment Clause jurisprudence had gone off the rails. In the
name of protecting religious liberty, the District would have us
suppress it. Rather than respect the First Amendment’s double
protection for religious expression, it would have us preference
secular activity. Not only could schools fire teachers for praying
quietly over their lunch, for wearing a yarmulke to school, or for
offering a midday prayer during a break before practice. Under the
District’s rule, a school would be required to do so.
It is a rule that would defy this Court’s traditional
understanding that permitting private speech is not the same thing
as coercing others to participate in it. See Town of Greece,
572 U. S., at 589 (plurality opinion). It is a rule, too, that
would undermine a long constitutional tradition under which
learning how to tolerate diverse expressive activities has always
been “part of learning how to live in a pluralistic
society.” Lee, 505 U. S., at 590. We are aware of
no historically sound understanding of the Establishment Clause
that begins to “mak[e] it necessary for government to be
hostile to religion” in this way. Zorach, 343
U. S., at 314.

															Our judgments on all these scores find support
in this Court’s prior cases too. In Zorach, for
example, challengers argued that a public school program permitting
students to spend time in private religious instruction off campus
was impermissibly coercive. Id., at 308, 311–312. The
Court rejected that challenge because students were not required to
attend religious instruction and there was no evidence that any
employee had “us[ed] their office to persuade or force
students” to participate in religious activity. Id.,
at 311, and n. 6. What was clear there is even more obvious
here—where there is no evidence anyone sought to persuade or
force students to participate, and there is no formal school
program accommodating the religious activity at issue.

															Meanwhile, this case looks very different from
those in which this Court has found prayer involving public school
students to be problematically coercive. In Lee, this Court
held that school officials violated the Establishment Clause by
“including [a] clerical membe[r]” who publicly recited
prayers “as part of [an] official school graduation
ceremony” because the school had “in every practical
sense compelled attendance and participation in” a
“religious exercise.” 505 U. S., at 580, 598. In
Santa Fe Independent School Dist. v. Doe, the Court
held that a school district violated the Establishment Clause by
broadcasting a prayer “over the public address system”
before each football game. 530 U.S.
290, 294 (2000). The Court observed that, while students
generally were not required to attend games, attendance was
required for “cheerleaders, members of the band, and, of
course, the team members themselves.” Id., at 311.
None of that is true here. The prayers for which Mr. Kennedy was
disciplined were not publicly broadcast or recited to a captive
audience. Students were not required or expected to participate.
And, in fact, none of Mr. Kennedy’s students did participate
in any of the three October 2015 prayers that resulted in Mr.
Kennedy’s discipline. See App. 90, 97, 173, 236–239;
Parts I–B and I–C, supra.[7]

															C

															In the end, the District’s case hinges
on the need to generate conflict between an individual’s
rights under the Free Exercise and Free Speech Clauses and its own
Establishment Clause duties—and then develop some explanation
why one of these Clauses in the First Amendment should
“ ‘trum[p]’ ” the other two. 991
F. 3d, at 1017; App. 43. But the project falters badly. Not
only does the District fail to offer a sound reason to prefer one
constitutional guarantee over another. It cannot even show that
they are at odds. In truth, there is no conflict between the
constitutional commands before us. There is only the “mere
shadow” of a conflict, a false choice premised on a
misconstruction of the Establishment Clause. Schempp, 374
U. S., at 308 (Goldberg, J., concurring). And in no world may
a government entity’s concerns about phantom constitutional
violations justify actual violations of an individual’s First
Amendment rights. See, e.g., Rosenberger, 515
U. S., at 845–846; Good News Club, 533
U. S., at 112–119; Lamb’s Chapel v.
Center Moriches Union Free School Dist., 508 U.S.
384, 394–395 (1993); Widmar, 454 U. S., at
270–275.[8]

															V

															Respect for religious expressions is
indispensable to life in a free and diverse Republic—whether
those expressions take place in a sanctuary or on a field, and
whether they manifest through the spoken word or a bowed head.
Here, a government entity sought to punish an individual for
engaging in a brief, quiet, personal religious observance doubly
protected by the Free Exercise and Free Speech Clauses of the First
Amendment. And the only meaningful justification the government
offered for its reprisal rested on a mistaken view that it had a
duty to ferret out and suppress religious observances even as it
allows comparable secular speech. The Constitution neither mandates
nor tolerates that kind of discrimination. Mr. Kennedy is entitled
to summary judgment on his First Amendment claims. The judgment of
the Court of Appeals is

															

															Reversed.

Notes
1
 A plaintiff may also
prove a free exercise violation by showing that “official
expressions of hostility” to religion accompany laws or
policies burdening religious exercise; in cases like that we have
“set aside” such policies without further inquiry.
Masterpiece Cakeshop, Ltd. v. Colorado Civil
Rights Comm’n, 584 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op.,
at 18). To resolve today’s case, however, we have no need to
consult that test. Likewise, while the test we do apply today has
been the subject of some criticism, see, e.g., Fulton
v. Philadelphia, 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip
op., at 5), we have no need to engage with that debate today
because no party has asked us to do so.
2
 Because our analysis and
the parties’ concessions lead to the conclusion that Mr.
Kennedy’s prayer constituted private speech on a matter of
public concern, we do not decide whether the Free Exercise Clause
may sometimes demand a different analysis at the first step of the
Pickering–Garcetti framework.
3
 It seems, too, that it is
only here where our disagreement with the dissent begins in
earnest. We do not understand our colleagues to contest that Mr.
Kennedy has met his burdens under either the Free Exercise or Free
Speech Clause, but only to suggest the District has carried its own
burden “to establish that its policy prohibiting
Kennedy’s public prayers was the least restrictive means of
furthering a compelling state interest.” Post, at 22
(opinion of Sotomayor, J.).
4
 Nor was that decision an
outlier. In the last two decades, this Court has often criticized
or ignored Lemon and its endorsement test variation. See,
e.g., Espinoza v. Montana Dept. of Revenue,
591 U. S. ___ (2020); American Legion v. American
Humanist Assn., 588 U. S. ___ (2019); Trump v.
Hawaii, 585 U. S. ___ (2018); Trinity Lutheran
Church of Columbia, Inc. v. Comer, 582 U. S. ___
(2017); Town of Greece v. Galloway, 572 U.S.
565 (2014); Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and
School v. EEOC, 565 U.S.
171 (2012); Arizona Christian School Tuition
Organization v. Winn, 563 U.S.
125 (2011); Hein v. Freedom from Religion Foundation,
Inc., 551 U.S.
587 (2007); id., at 618 (Scalia, J., concurring in
judgment); Van Orden v. Perry, 545 U.S.
677 (2005); id., at 689 (Breyer, J., concurring in
judgment). A vast number of Justices have criticized those tests
over an even longer period. See Shurtleff v. Boston,
596 U. S. ___, at ___–___, and nn. 9–10 (2022)
(Gorsuch, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 7–8, and
nn. 9–10) (collecting opinions authored or joined by Roberts
and Rehnquist, C. J., and Thomas, Breyer, Alito, Kavanaugh,
Stevens, O’Connor, Scalia, and Kennedy, JJ.). The point has
not been lost on our lower court colleagues. See, e.g., 4
F. 4th 910, 939–941 (2021) (O’Scannlain, J.,
respecting denial of rehearing en banc); id., at 945
(R. Nelson, J., dissenting from denial of rehearing en banc);
id., at 947, n. 3 (collecting lower court cases from
“around the country” that “have recognized
Lemon’s demise”).
5
 See, e.g.,
Lee v. Weisman, 505 U.S.
577, 640–642 (1992) (Scalia, J. dissenting);
Shurtleff, 596 U. S., at ___–___ (opinion of
Gorsuch, J.) (slip op., at 10–13) (discussing coercion and
certain other historical hallmarks of an established religion); 1
Annals of Cong. 730–731 (1789) (Madison explaining that the
First Amendment aimed to prevent one or multiple sects from
“establish[ing] a religion to which they would compel others
to conform”); M. McConnell, Establishment and
Disestablishment at the Founding, Part I: Establishment of
Religion, 44 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 2105, 2144–2146
(2003).
6
 The dissent expresses
concern that looking to “histor[y] an[d] tradition” to
guide Establishment Clause inquiries will not afford “school
administrators” sufficient guidance. Post, at 30. But
that concern supplies no excuse to adorn the Constitution with
rules not supported by its terms and the traditions undergirding
them. Nor, in any event, is there any question that the District
understands that coercion can be a hallmark of an Establishment
Clause violation. See App. 105. The District’s problem
isn’t a failure to identify coercion as a crucial legal
consideration; it is a lack of evidence that coercion actually
occurred.
7
 Even if the personal
prayers Mr. Kennedy sought to offer after games are not themselves
coercive, the dissent suggests that they bear an indelible taint of
coercion by association with the school’s past prayer
practices—some of which predated Mr. Kennedy, and all of
which the District concedes he ended on request. But none of those
abandoned practices formed the basis for Mr. Kennedy’s
suspension, and he has not sought to claim First Amendment
protection for them. See Town of Greece, 572 U. S., at
585 (other past practices do not permanently “despoil a
practice” later challenged under the Establishment Clause).
Nor, contrary to the dissent, does the possibility that students
might choose, unprompted, to participate in Mr. Kennedy’s
prayers necessarily prove them coercive. See post, at
18–20, 32–33. For one thing, the District has conceded
that no coach may “discourag[e]” voluntary student
prayer under its policies. Tr. of Oral Arg. 91. For another, Mr.
Kennedy has repeatedly explained that he is willing to conduct his
prayer without students—as he did after each of the games
that formed the basis of his suspension—and after students
head to the locker room or bus. See App. 280, 282,
292–294.
8
 Failing under its
coercion theory, the District offers still another backup argument.
It contends that it had to suppress Mr. Kennedy’s protected
First Amendment activity to ensure order at Bremerton football
games. See also post, at 2, 8–9, 11, 34–35
(Sotomayor, J., dissenting). But the District never raised
concerns along these lines in its contemporaneous correspondence
with Mr. Kennedy. And unsurprisingly, neither the District Court
nor the Ninth Circuit invoked this rationale to justify the
District’s actions. Government “justification[s]”
for interfering with First Amendment rights “must be genuine,
not hypothesized or invented post hoc in response to
litigation.” United States v. Virginia,
518 U.S.
515, 533 (1996). Nor under our Constitution does protected
speech or religious exercise readily give way to a
“heckler’s veto.” Good News Club v.
Milford Central School, 533 U.S.
98, 119 (2001); supra, at 22–23.


