::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-468
::decision_name::  National Pork Producers Council v. Ross
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–468

															_________________

															NATIONAL PORK PRODUCERS COUNCIL, et al.,
PETITIONERS v. KAREN ROSS, in her official capacity as
SECRETARY OF THE CALI- FORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[May 11, 2023]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice
Alito, Justice Kavanaugh, and Justice Jackson join, concurring in
part and dissenting in part.

															I agree with the Court’s view in its
thoughtful opinion that many of the leading cases invoking the
dormant Commerce Clause are properly read as invalidating statutes
that promoted economic protectionism. See ante, at
8–11. I also agree with the Court’s conclusion that our
precedent does not support a per se rule against state laws
with “extraterritorial” effects. See ante, at
11–14. But I cannot agree with the approach adopted by some
of my colleagues to analyzing petitioners’ claim based on
Pike v. Bruce Church, Inc., 397 U.S.
137, 142 (1970). See ante, at 15–27 (opinion of
Gorsuch, J.); ante, at 3 (Sotomayor, J. concurring in part);
ante, at 1–2 (Barrett, J., concurring in part).

															Pike provides that nondiscriminatory
state regulations are valid under the Commerce Clause “unless
the burden imposed on [interstate] commerce is clearly excessive in
relation to the putative local benefits.” 397 U. S., at
142. A majority of the Court thinks that petitioners’
complaint does not make for “an auspicious start” on
that claim. Ante, at 18. In my view, that is through no
fault of their own. The Ninth Circuit misapplied our existing
Pike jurisprudence in evaluating petitioners’
allegations. I would find that petitioners’ have plausibly
alleged a substantial burden against interstate commerce, and would
therefore vacate the judgment and remand the case for the court
below to decide whether petitioners have stated a claim under
Pike.

															I

															The Ninth Circuit stated that “[w]hile
the dormant Commerce Clause is not yet a dead letter, it is moving
in that direction.” 6 F. 4th 1021, 1033 (2021).
Today’s majority does not pull the plug. For good reason:
Although Pike is susceptible to misapplication as a
freewheeling judicial weighing of benefits and burdens, it also
reflects the basic concern of our Commerce Clause jurisprudence
that there be “free private trade in the national
marketplace.” General Motors Corp. v. Tracy,
519 U.S.
278, 287 (1997) (quoting Reeves, Inc. v. Stake,
447 U.S.
429, 437 (1980)); see also Hunt v. Washington State
Apple Advertising Comm’n, 432 U.S.
333, 350 (1977) (Pike protects “a national
‘common market’ ”). “Our system,
fostered by the Commerce Clause, is that every farmer and every
craftsman shall be encouraged to produce by the certainty that he
will have free access to every market in the Nation, that no home
embargoes will withhold his exports, and no foreign state will by
customs duties or regulations exclude them.” H. P. Hood
& Sons, Inc. v. Du Mond, 336
U.S. 525, 539 (1949).

															The majority’s discussion of our
Pike jurisprudence highlights two types of cases: those
involving discriminatory state laws and those implicating the
“instrumentalities of interstate transportation.”
Ante, at 17, n. 2. But Pike has not been so narrowly
typecast. As a majority of the Court acknowledges, “we
generally leave the courtroom door open to plaintiffs invoking the
rule in Pike, that even nondiscriminatory burdens on
commerce may be struck down on a showing that those burdens clearly
outweigh the benefits of a state or local practice.”
Department of Revenue of Ky. v. Davis, 553 U.S.
328, 353 (2008); see also United Haulers Assn., Inc. v.
Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Management Authority, 550 U.S.
330, 346 (2007) (plurality opinion) (Pike applies to
“a nondiscriminatory statute like this one”). Nor have
our cases applied Pike only where a State regulates the
instrumentalities of transportation. Pike itself addressed
an Arizona law regulating cantaloupe packaging. See 397 U. S.,
at 138. And we have since applied Pike to invalidate
nondiscriminatory state laws that do not concern transportation.
Edgar v. MITE Corp., 457 U.S.
624, 643–646 (1982). As a majority of the Court agrees,
Pike extends beyond laws either concerning discrimination or
governing interstate transportation. See ante, at 2 (opinion
of Sotomayor, J.); post, at 1–2 (Kavanaugh, J.,
concurring in part and dissenting in part).

															Speaking for three Members of the Court, Justice
Gorsuch objects that balancing competing interests under
Pike is simply an impossible judicial task. See ante,
at 18–21. I certainly appreciate the concern, see United
Haulers, 550 U. S., at 343, 347, but sometimes there is no
avoiding the need to weigh seemingly incommensurable values. See,
e.g., Schneider v. State (Town of Irvington),
308 U.S.
147, 162 (1939) (weighing “the purpose to keep the
streets clean and of good appearance” against the “the
constitutional protection of the freedom of speech and
press”); Winston v. Lee, 470 U.S.
753, 760 (1985) (“The reasonableness” under the
Fourth Amendment “of surgical intrusions beneath the skin
depends on a case-by-case approach, in which the individual’s
interests in privacy and security are weighed against
society’s interests in conducting the procedure.”);
Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S.
418, 425 (1979) (“In considering what standard should
govern in a civil commitment proceeding, we must assess both the
extent of the individual’s interest in not being
involuntarily confined indefinitely and the state’s interest
in committing the emotionally disturbed under a particular standard
of proof.”). Here too, a majority of the Court agrees that it
is possible to balance benefits and burdens under the approach set
forth in Pike. See ante, at 2–3 (opinion of
Sotomayor, J.); post, at 1–2 (opinion of Kavanaugh,
J.).

															II

															This case comes before us on a Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 12(b)(6) motion to dismiss, and in my view the
court below erred in how it analyzed petitioners’ allegations
under Pike. The Ninth Circuit reasoned that “[f]or
dormant Commerce Clause purposes, laws that increase compliance
costs, without more, do not constitute a significant burden on
interstate commerce.” 6 F. 4th, at 1032. The panel then
dismissed petitioners’ claim under Pike by concluding
that the complaint alleged only an increase in compliance costs due
to Proposition 12. 6 F. 4th, at 1033. But, as I read it, the
complaint alleges more than simply an increase in “compliance
costs,” unless such costs are defined to include all the
fallout from a challenged regulatory regime. Petitioners identify
broader, market-wide consequences of
compliance—economic harms that our precedents have recognized
can amount to a burden on interstate commerce. I would therefore
find that petitioners have stated a substantial burden against
interstate commerce, vacate the judgment below, and remand this
case for the Ninth Circuit to consider whether petitioners have
plausibly claimed that the burden alleged outweighs any
“putative local interests” under Pike. 397
U. S., at 142.

															A

															Our precedents have long distinguished the
costs of complying with a given state regulation from other
economic harms to the interstate market. Bibb v. Navajo
Freight Lines, Inc., 359 U.S.
520 (1959), illustrates the point. In that case, we considered
an Illinois law requiring that trucks and trailers use a particular
kind of mudguard. The “cost of installing” the
mudguards was “$30 or more per vehicle,” amounting to
“$4,500 to $45,840” for the trucking companies at
issue. Id., at 525. But beyond documenting those direct
costs of complying with the Illinois law, we also noted other
derivative harms flowing from the regulation. The mudguard rule
threatened “significant delay in an operation where prompt
movement may be of the essence.” Id., at 527. Also,
changing mudguard types when crossing into Illinois from a State
with a different standard would require “two to four hours of
labor” and could prove “exceedingly dangerous.”
Ibid. We concluded that “[c]ost taken into
consideration” together with those “other
factors” could constitute a burden on interstate commerce.
Id., at 526 (emphasis added). Subsequent cases followed
Bibb’s logic by analyzing economic impact to the
interstate market separately from immediate costs of compliance.
See Kassel v. Consolidated Freightways Corp. of Del.,
450 U.S.
662, 674 (1981) (plurality opinion) (separating
“increas[ed] . . . costs” from the fact that
the challenged “law may aggravate . . . the problem
of highway accidents” in describing the burden on interstate
commerce); Raymond Motor Transp., Inc. v. Rice,
434 U.S.
429, 445, and n. 21 (1978) (analyzing an increase in
“cost” independently of other consequential effects,
such as “slow[ing] the movement of goods”).

															Pike itself did not conflate harms to the
interstate market with compliance costs. In Pike, we
analyzed an Arizona law requiring that cantaloupes grown in the
State be packed prior to shipment across state lines. 397
U. S., at 138. We noted repeatedly that the regulation would
require the appellee to construct an unneeded packing facility in
Arizona at a cost of $200,000. Id., at 140, 144, 145. But we
considered that cost together with the “nature” of a
regulation “requiring business operations to be performed in
the home State.” Id., at 145. The Court in Pike
found both compliance costs and consequential market harms
cognizable in determining whether the law at issue impermissibly
burdened interstate commerce.

															The derivative harms we have long considered in
this context are in no sense “noneconomic.”
Ante, at 27 (opinion of Gorsuch, J.). Regulations that
“aggravate . . . the problem of highway
accidents,” Kassel, 450 U. S., at 674, or
“slow the movement of goods,” Rice, 434
U. S., at 445, impose economic burdens, even if those burdens
may be difficult to quantify and may not arise immediately. Our
cases provide no license to chalk up every economic
harm—no matter how derivative—to a mere cost of
compliance.

															Nor can the foregoing cases be dismissed because
they either involved the instrumentalities of transportation or a
state law born of discriminatory purpose. As discussed above, we
have applied Pike to state laws that neither concerned
transportation nor discriminated against commerce. See
Edgar, 457 U. S., at 643–646. The Pike
balance may well come out differently when it comes to interstate
transportation, an area presenting a strong interest in
“national uniformity.” Tracy, 519 U. S., at
298, n. 12. But the error below does not concern a particular
balancing of interests under Pike; it concerns how to
analyze the burden on interstate commerce in the first place.

															B

															As in our prior cases, petitioners here allege
both compliance costs and consequential harms to the interstate
market. With respect to compliance costs, petitioners allege that
Proposition 12 demands significant capital expenditures for farmers
who wish to sell into California. “Producers . . .
will need to spend” between $290 and $348 million “of
additional capital in order to reconstruct their sow housing and
overcome the productivity loss that Proposition 12 imposes.”
App. to Pet. for Cert. 214a. All told, compliance will
“increase production costs per pig by over $13 dollars per
head, a 9.2% cost increase at the farm level.”
Ibid.

															Separate and apart from those costs, petitioners
assert harms to the interstate market itself. The complaint alleges
that the interstate pork market is so interconnected that producers
will be “forced to comply” with Proposition 12,
“even though some or even most of the cuts from a hog are
sold in other States.” Id., at 213a; id., at
239a. Proposition 12 may not expressly regulate farmers operating
out of State. But due to the nature of the national pork market,
California has enacted rules that carry implications for producers
as far flung as Indiana and North Carolina, whether or not they
sell in California. The panel below acknowledged petitioners’
allegation that, “[a]s a practical matter, given the
interconnected nature of the nationwide pork industry, all or most
hog farmers will be forced to comply with California
requirements.” 6 F. 4th, at 1028.

															We have found such sweeping extraterritorial
effects, even if not considered as a per se
invalidation, to be pertinent in applying Pike. In
Edgar, we assessed the constitutionality of an Illinois
corporate takeover statute that authorized the secretary of state
to scrutinize tender offers, even for transactions occurring wholly
beyond the State’s borders. As the majority explains, only a
plurality of the Court in Edgar concluded that the Illinois
statute constituted a per se violation of the dormant
Commerce Clause. See ante, at 14, n. 1. But a majority
in Edgar analyzed those same extraterritorial effects under
our approach in Pike, concluding that the “nationwide
reach” of Illinois’s law constituted an “obvious
burden . . . on interstate commerce.” 457
U. S., at 643. The Ninth Circuit did not consider whether, by
effectively requiring compliance by farmers who do not even wish to
ship their product into California, Proposition 12 has a
“nationwide reach” similar to the regulation at issue
in Edgar.

															The complaint further alleges other harms that
cannot fairly be characterized as mere costs of compliance but that
the panel below seems to have treated as such. Because of
Proposition 12’s square footage requirements, farms will be
compelled to adopt group housing, which is likely to produce
“worse health outcome[s]” and “sprea[d] pathogens
and disease.” App. to Pet. for Cert. 229a. Such housing
changes will also “upen[d] generations of animal husbandry,
training, and knowledge.” Id., at 211a. And
“[b]y preventing the use of breeding stalls during the 30 to
40 day period between weaning and confirmation of pregnancy,
Proposition 12 puts sows at greater risk of injury and stress
during the vulnerable stages of breeding and gestation.”
Id., at 223a. These consequential threats to animal welfare
and industry practice are difficult to quantify and are not
susceptible to categorization as mere costs of compliance.

															Writing for a plurality of the Court, Justice
Gorsuch relies on this Court’s decision in Exxon Corp.
v. Governor of Maryland, 437 U.S.
117 (1978), to conclude that petitioners’ complaint does
not plead a substantial burden against interstate commerce. See
ante, at 21–25; see also ante, at 3 (opinion of
Sotomayor, J.) (also relying on Exxon). In Exxon,
petroleum producers sued after Maryland prohibited their sale of
retail gas within the State. 437 U. S., at 119. The Court
concluded that “interstate commerce is not subjected to an
impermissible burden simply because an otherwise valid regulation
causes some business[es] to shift from one interstate supplier to
another.” Id., at 127. Fair enough. But the complaint
before us pleads facts going far beyond the allegations in
Exxon. The producers in Exxon operated within
Maryland and wished to continue doing so. By contrast, petitioners
here allege that Proposition 12 will force compliance on farmers
who do not wish to sell into the California market, exacerbate
health issues in the national pig population, and undercut
established operational practices. In my view, these allegations
amount to economic harms against “the interstate
market”—not just “particular interstate
firms,” ibid.—such that they constitute a
substantial burden under Pike. At the very least, the harms
alleged by petitioners are categorically different from the cost of
installing $30 mudguards, Bibb, 359 U. S., at 525, or
of constructing a $200,000 cantaloupe packing facility,
Pike, 397 U. S., at 140.

															Justice Gorsuch asks what separates my approach
from the per se extraterritoriality rule I reject.
Ante, at 25. It is the difference between mere cross-border
effects and broad impact requiring, in this case, compliance even
by producers who do not wish to sell in the regulated market. And
even then, we only invalidate a regulation if that burden proves
“clearly excessive in relation to the putative local
benefits.” Pike, 397 U. S., at 142. Adhering to
that established approach in this case would not convert the
inquiry into a per se rule against extraterritorial
regulation.

															Rather than analyze petitioners’ alleged
harms to the interstate market on their own terms, the Ninth
Circuit reasoned that the “crux” of the complaint is
“the cost of compliance with Proposition 12.” 6
F. 4th, at 1033. Such “cost increases,” the panel
below concluded, “do not qualify as a substantial burden to
interstate commerce.” Ibid. Those statements ignore
the industry-wide harms discussed above.

															The panel below itself recognized that
petitioners “plausibly alleged that Proposition 12 will have
dramatic upstream effects and require pervasive changes to the pork
production industry nationwide.” Ibid. Yet it
nevertheless reduced the myriad harms detailed by petitioners in
their complaint to so-called “compliance costs” and
wrote them off as independently insufficient to state a claim under
Pike. Our precedents do not support such an approach. A
majority of the Court agrees that—were it possible to balance
benefits and burdens in this context—petitioners have
plausibly stated a substantial burden against interstate commerce.
See ante, at 2 (opinion of Barrett, J.) (“The
complaint plausibly alleges that Proposition 12’s costs are
pervasive, burdensome, and will be felt primarily (but not
exclusively) outside California.”).

															*  *  *

															In my view, petitioners plausibly allege a
substantial burden against interstate commerce. I would therefore
remand the case for the Ninth Circuit to decide whether it is
plausible that the “burden . . . is clearly
excessive in relation to the putative local benefits.”
Pike, 397 U. S., at 142.

													
