::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-442
::decision_name::  Reed v. Goertz
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–442

															_________________

															RODNEY REED, PETITIONER v. BRYAN
GOERTZ

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[April 19, 2023]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Gorsuch
joins, dissenting.

															This case involves a suit brought by petitioner
Rodney Reed under Rev. Stat. §1979, 42 U. S. C.
§1983, against Bryan Goertz, the District Attorney of Bastrop
County, Texas. Reed claims that Goertz violated his due process
rights when, based on the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals’
interpretation of the Texas statute that allows post-trial DNA
testing under specified circumstances, Article 64 of the Texas Code
of Criminal Procedure, Goertz continued to deny Reed’s
request for DNA testing of certain items found near the scene of
the murder for which he was convicted 25 years ago.

															As the Court notes and the parties agree, the
statute of limitations for Reed’s claim is two years.
Ante, at 4; Brief for Petitioner 17; Brief for Respondent
17. Reed filed his complaint on August 8, 2019, and the lower
courts held that this was too late. The question before us is when
the 2-year statute of limitations began to run, that is in legal
parlance, when Reed’s claim “accrued.” As the
parties agree, the general rule is that a claim accrues when the
plaintiff has “a complete and present cause of action,”
Wallace v. Kato, 549 U.S.
384, 388 (2007) (internal quotation marks omitted). Reed
contends that his claim did not accrue until the Texas Court of
Criminal Appeals (CCA) denied his petition for rehearing on October
4, 2017, and thus refused to retract the interpretation of Article
64 that the court had unanimously adopted on April 12, 2017.
Goertz, on the other hand, argues that Reed’s claim accrued
no later than the date of the CCA’s April 12 decision, and
because that date preceded the federal lawsuit by more than two
years, Goertz maintains that we should affirm the Fifth
Circuit’s decision that Reed’s complaint was filed too
late.

															As I will explain, there is room for debate
about exactly when Reed’s DNA testing claim accrued, but in
my view, the notion that this did not take place until rehearing
was denied is clearly wrong.

															I

															Before getting to the nub of this case, I
briefly explain why Reed’s claim might have accrued even
earlier than April 12, 2017. First, it can be argued that
Reed’s claim against Goertz accrued on or before July 2014,
when Goertz initially refused Reed’s testing
request.[1] The general rule is
that a plaintiff ’s §1983 claim against a state
official for violating a constitutional right accrues when the
alleged violation takes place. See Wallace, 549 U. S.,
at 384 (§1983 claim “normally commence[s] to run”
from when wrong occurs). And the Court does not disclaim the
possibility that a plaintiff could file a §1983 claim as soon
as a state prosecutor denies a DNA testing request. See
ante, at 6, and n. 1.

															Another possibility is that the particular claim
Reed now asserts did not accrue until the state trial court held
that Goertz had properly denied Reed’s testing request. Reed
does not claim that the bare text of Article 64 is
unconstitutional. (Had he done so, he could hardly argue, as he
does now, that his claim did not accrue until the end of the
appellate process.) Instead, he stresses that his claim concerns
the state courts’ construction of that statute and in
particular, their holding that the evidence for which testing is
sought must not be contaminated. Brief for Petitioner 3, 15, 29. In
response to this argument, Goertz contends that every allegedly
unconstitutional aspect of the judicial interpretation of the
statute was adopted by the time the state trial court issued
amended findings of fact and conclusions of law in 2016, and Goertz
therefore takes the position that Reed’s
unconstitutional-construction claim accrued at that time. Brief for
Respondent 18–19.

															II

															A

															For present purposes, it is not necessary to
decide whether Reed’s claim accrued on either of these two
dates. We need only decide whether accrual was put off until the
CCA denied rehearing, and it is clear to me that this delayed
accrual date is wrong.[2] As
noted, the claim that Reed asserts is not based on the bare text of
Article 64, but on what he claims is an erroneous interpretation of
that provision by the Texas courts. He thus submits that his claim
accrued when the “authoritative construction of Article
64” that he challenges was pronounced by the CCA. Brief for
Petitioner 17.

															I will assume for the sake of argument that
Reed’s claim accrued when the CCA issued its
“authoritative construction of Article 64,” but I
cannot agree with Reed’s argument—which the Court
conspicuously declines to defend—that the CCA’s
interpretation did not become “authoritative” until
rehearing was denied.

															Reed cites no authority for the proposition that
the filing of a petition for rehearing typically suspends the
authoritative force of an appellate court’s decision, and in
fact, it appears that the opposite is true—as this
Court’s “GVR” practice illustrates. On or shortly
after the day when we hand down a decision, we often
“GVR” cases in which petitions raising similar issues
are pending before us. (That is, we grant the petition,
vacate the decision below, and remand the case for
reconsideration in light of the decision we have handed down.) On
June 30, 2022, for example, we did this in no fewer than 33
cases.[3] We do not wait to see
if a petition for rehearing will be filed; nor do we hold off until
a mandate is issued or a certified copy of the judgment is
prepared. See this Court’s Rules 45.2 and 45.3. If our
decisions did not become authoritative and binding as soon as they
are issued, this practice would be impermissible.

															There is no reason why decisions of the CCA
should be viewed any differently. On the contrary, it appears that
the CCA has followed a practice similar to our GVR practice. See
Oliver v. State, 
872 S.W.2d 713, 716 (Tex. Crim. App. 1994) (vacating judgment
and remanding for reconsideration in light of decision on same
day). And neither Reed nor the Court has cited any contrary Texas
authority. Accordingly, Reed’s “authoritative
construction” argument became complete, at the latest, when
the CCA adopted that construction on April 12, 2017, two years and
11 months before Reed filed his §1983 complaint.

															B

															Unlike Reed, the Court does not contend that
the CCA’s interpretation lacked “authoritative”
status until rehearing was denied. Instead, the Court merely
proclaims that the State, acting through Goertz, did not deny Reed
due process of law until “the state litigation ended.”
Ante, at 5.[4] I
certainly see the logic in this view: until the process afforded by
a State has been exhausted, it may be said that the State has not
definitively denied the process that the Constitution is alleged to
demand. This logic leads to the conclusion that a prisoner like
Reed should exhaust state remedies—something that would
generally be required if the proper vehicle for contesting the
denial of a DNA testing claim were a petition for a writ of habeas
corpus. See 28 U. S. C. §2254(b)(1). But the Court
rejected that proposition in District Attorney’s Office
for Third Judicial Dist. v. Osborne, 557 U.S. 52 (2009),
and it is well-established that a §1983 plaintiff need not
exhaust state remedies. Patsy v. Board of Regents of
Fla., 457 U.S.
496, 500–501 (1982); Edwards v. Balisok,
520 U.S.
641, 649 (1997). Not only is this the general rule, but the
Osborne Court found that the rule applies in cases involving
constitutional challenges to the denial of requested DNA testing.
557 U. S., at 71. Thus, the Court’s reasoning collides
with precedent.

															On top of this, the Court’s reasoning, if
taken to its logical conclusion, points to a result that neither
Reed nor the Court is willing to embrace: namely, that a due
process challenge to the denial of a request for DNA testing is not
ripe until state remedies have been exhausted. (Reed squarely
rejects that conclusion, Brief for Petitioner 48; Tr. of Oral Arg.
12–13, and the Court reserves judgment. Ante, at 6, n.
1.) But that is where the Court’s reasoning is likely to
lead.

															Reed tries to circumvent this problem by
distinguishing between a claim that challenges the literal terms of
a state law and one that challenges the law as authoritatively
interpreted by the State’s highest court. Brief for
Petitioner 30, 48. On this view, only claims of the latter type
would have to proceed through the entire state court appellate
process before a §1983 challenge could be brought. But this
categorization of DNA-testing claims is problematic. When a
State’s high court interprets a state law, it generally
settles what the law always meant, and therefore it is hard to see
the difference between a claim that the text of a state statute is
unconstitutional and a claim that the text is unconstitutional as
interpreted by the State’s highest court. In the case of a
state law like Article 64, which permits DNA testing under limited
circumstances, the court may interpret the statute to impose
requirements that are not expressly spelled out in the statutory
text. (That is what happened here.) Or the state high court may
interpret requirements in the text more leniently than a literal
reading of the text would demand. In either event, the statute
means what the state high court says it means, and if accrual in
the first of these situations does not take place until the end of
appellate review, it is hard to see why the same should not be true
in the second as well.

															In light of these problems, it is not surprising
that the Court declines to say anything about whether prisoners who
wish to challenge a state DNA testing law may sue as soon as their
testing requests are denied. The Court says only that it
“need not address th[e] hypothetical scenario” of a
plaintiff who declines “full appellate review,”
ante, at 6, n. 1, but what does that mean? Does it mean
that such a plaintiff must exhaust state remedies at the
trial level but need not appeal? Does it mean that
such a plaintiff must pursue some (but not
“full”) appellate review? Litigants and the lower
courts are left to guess. Instead of clarifying the law, the
Court’s decision may sow confusion.

															C

															Much of Reed’s argumentation is not
aimed at the argument that his claim accrued when the CCA issued
its contested interpretation of Article 64. Instead, Reed directs
his attack on the earlier possible accrual dates discussed in Part
I of this opinion and in particular the Fifth Circuit’s
holding that a claim like Reed’s accrues when testing is
denied at the trial level. He says that this rule is unfair because
he “isn’t Nostradamus,” lacks “supernatural
foresight,” and therefore could not have predicted at the
time of the trial court decision whether the CCA would ultimately
agree. Brief for Petitioner 26, 32. He argues that his rule
promotes federalism (because it encourages resort to state court
litigation before turning to the federal courts), judicial economy
(because it tends to avoid contemporaneous litigation in both state
and federal court), comity (because it allows state courts to adopt
interpretations of their statutes that avoid federal constitutional
problems), and practical reality (because a prisoner bringing an
authoritative-construction claim cannot know in advance how a
State’s high court will interpret the relevant statute).
Id., at 36–39. The Court makes related arguments.
Ante, at 5–6.

															Whatever merit these arguments might have in
relation to the accrual date adopted by the Fifth Circuit, they
ring hollow as applied to the choice between the date when a state
high court issues a decision interpreting the state testing statute
and the date when that court refuses to rehear and overturn that
interpretation. One need not have “supernatural
foresight” in order to predict that rehearing is unlikely to
be granted. And it is hard to see how requiring a §1983
plaintiff to sue within two years after a state high court decision
is issued is unfair or does any damage to federalism, comity, or
judicial economy.

															Reed has provided no explanation why he could
not have filed his §1983 action within two years after the
CCA’s decision. Instead, he waited until an execution date
was set. While that event may have “concentrate[d] his mind
wonderfully,” that is not an excuse for the basic mistake of
missing a statute of limitations.[5]

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, I would affirm the judgment
below, and I therefore respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 We are told that Reed and
Goertz engaged in lengthy negotiations about the testing of certain
items prior to the date in July 2014 when Reed filed his claim in
the District Court of Bastrop County under Article 64. Brief for
Petitioner 13; Brief for Respondent 5–6; see Reed v.
State, 541 S.W.3d 759, 779 (Tex. Crim. App.
2017).
2
 We have noted that a
couple special cases can displace that “presumptiv[e]”
accrual rule, such as where “a particular claim may not
realistically be brought while a violation is ongoing,” or
where a special accrual rule governed “the most natural
common-law analogy.” McDonough v. Smith, 588
U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 4). But the majority
(correctly) does not adopt Reed’s view, see Brief for
Petitioner 32–39, that this matter raises one of those
special cases. Under Reed’s theory as expressed as argument,
he could have proceeded with a claim under Skinner v.
Switzer, 562 U.S.
521 (2011), at any time in the process. Tr. of Oral Arg. 12
(stating that “a prisoner could exit the state court
procedures at any point” and bring a challenge).
3
 Journal of the Supreme
Court 711–716 (June 30, 2022); see, e.g., id.,
at 685–689 (June 27, 2022) (granting, vacating, and remanding
28 cases).
4
 Even the CCA’s
denial of rehearing in a DNA testing case may not mark the end of
state court litigation on that issue, to the extent that the issue
may be taken up again in a state collateral review proceeding or
otherwise renewed. Cf. Darnell v. State, 2004 WL
1088755, *1 (Tex. App., May 13, 2004) (discussing
“reconsider[ation]” granted in DNA-testing action
“after submission of additional
information”).
5
 J. Boswell, Life of
Samuel Johnson, in 44 Great Books of the Western World 351 (R.
Hutchins & M. Adler eds. 1952).


