::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-454
::decision_name::  Sackett v. Environmental Protection Agency
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–454

															_________________

															MICHAEL SACKETT, et ux., PETITIONERS v.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[May 25, 2023]

															

															Justice Thomas, with whom Justice Gorsuch
joins, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full. The
Clean Water Act (CWA) confines the Federal Government’s
jurisdiction to “ ‘navigable
waters,’ ” defined as “the waters of the
United States.” 33 U. S. C. §§1311(a),
1362(7), (12). And the Court correctly holds that the term
“waters” reaches “ ‘only those
relatively permanent, standing or continuously flowing bodies of
water “ ‘forming geographic[al]
features’ ” that are described in ordinary
parlance as “streams, oceans, rivers, and
lakes.” ’ ” Ante, at 14 (quoting
Rapanos v. United States, 547
U.S. 715, 739 (2006) (plurality opinion)). It also correctly
holds that for a wetland to fall within this definition, it must
share a “ ‘continuous surface connection to bodies
that are “waters of the United States” in their own
right’ ” such that “ ‘there is no
clear demarcation between “waters” and
wetlands.’ ” Ante, at 21 (quoting
Rapanos, 547 U. S., at 742 (plurality opinion)).

															However, like the Rapanos plurality
before it, the Court focuses only on the term “waters”;
it does not determine the extent to which the CWA’s other
jurisdictional terms—“navigable” and “of
the United States”—limit the reach of the statute.
Ante, at 14–18; Rapanos, 547 U. S., at 731
(plurality opinion). I write separately to pick up where the Court
leaves off.

															I

															The CWA’s jurisdictional terms have a
long pedigree and are bound up with Congress’ traditional
authority over the channels of interstate commerce. Solid Waste
Agency of Northern Cook Cty. v. Army Corps of Engineers,
531 U.S.
159, 168, and n. 3, 172, 173–174 (2001)
(SWANCC). That traditional authority was limited in two
ways. First, the water had to be capable of being used as a highway
for interstate or foreign commerce. Second, Congress could regulate
such waters only for purposes of their navigability—by, for
example, regulating obstructions hindering navigable capacity. By
the time of the CWA’s enactment, the New Deal era arguably
had relaxed the second limitation; Congress could regulate
navigable waters for a wider range of purposes. But, critically,
the statutory terms “navigable waters,”
“navigable waters of the United States,” and
“waters of the United States” were still understood as
invoking only Congress’ authority over waters that are, were,
or could be used as highways of interstate or foreign commerce. The
CWA was enacted, and must be understood, against that key
backdrop.

															A

															As the Court correctly states, “land and
water use lies at the core of traditional state authority.”
Ante, at 23; see also ante, at 2. Prior to
Independence, the Crown possessed sovereignty over navigable waters
in the Colonies, sometimes held in trust by colonial authorities.
See R. Adler, The Ancient Mariner of Constitutional Law: The
Historical, Yet Declining Role of Navigability, 90 Wash.
U. L. Rev. 1643, 1656–1659 (2013); R. Walston, The
Federal Commerce and Navigation Powers: Solid Waste Agency of
Northern Cook County’s Undecided Constitutional Issue, 42
Santa Clara L. Rev. 699, 721 (2002) (Walston). Upon
Independence, this sovereignty was transferred to each of the 13
fully sovereign States. See Martin v. Lessee of
Waddell, 16 Pet. 367, 410 (1842) (“[W]hen the Revolution
took place, the people of each state became themselves sovereign;
and in that character hold the absolute right to all their
navigable waters and the soils under them for their own common use,
subject only to the rights since surrendered by the Constitution to
the general government”). Thus, today, States enjoy primary
sovereignty over their waters, including navigable
waters—stemming either from their status as independent
sovereigns following Independence, ibid., or their later
admission to the Union on an equal footing with the original
States, see Lessee of Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How.
212, 230 (1845) (“The shores of navigable waters, and the
soils under them, were not granted by the Constitution to the
United States, but were reserved to the states respectively.
. . . The new states have the same rights, sovereignty,
and jurisdiction over this subject as the original states”);
see also M. Starr, Navigable Waters of the United
States—State and National Control, 35 Harv. L. Rev. 154,
169–170 (1921). The Federal Government therefore possesses no
authority over navigable waters except that granted by the
Constitution.

															The Federal Government’s authority over
certain navigable waters is granted and limited by the Commerce
Clause, which grants Congress power to “regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian Tribes.” Art. I, §8, cl. 3. From the
beginning, it was understood that “[t]he power to regulate
commerce, includes the power to regulate navigation,” but
only “as connected with the commerce with foreign nations,
and among the states.” United States v. Coombs,
12 Pet. 72, 78 (1838) (Story, J., for the Court); accord,
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 190 (1824) (“All
America understands . . . the word
‘commerce,’ to comprehend navigation. It was so
understood, and must have been so understood, when the constitution
was framed”); see also R. Barnett, The Original Meaning of
the Commerce Clause, 68 U. Chi. L. Rev. 101, 125–126
(2001) (Barnett); R. Natelson, The Legal Meaning of
“Commerce” in the Commerce Clause, 80 St. John’s
L. Rev. 789, 807–810 (2006). In fact, “shipping
. . . was at that time the indispensable means for the
movement of goods.” Barnett 123. The Commerce Clause thus
vests Congress with a limited authority over what we now call the
“channels of interstate commerce.” United States
v. Lopez, 514 U.S.
549, 558–559 (1995); see also American Trucking
Assns., Inc. v. Los Angeles, 569
U.S. 641, 656–657 (2013) (Thomas, J., concurring).

															This federal authority, however, does not
displace States’ traditional sovereignty over their waters.
“The power to regulate commerce comprehends the control
for that purpose, and to the extent necessary, of all the
navigable waters of the United States which are accessible from a
State other than those in which they lie.” Gilman v.
Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713, 724–725 (1866) (emphasis
added). And, traditionally, this limited authority was confined to
regulation of the channels of interstate commerce themselves.
Corfield v. Coryell, 6 F. Cas. 546, 550–551
(No. 3,230) (CC ED Pa. 1823) (Washington, J., for the Court). It
encompassed only “the power to keep them open and free from
any obstruction to their navigation” and “to remove
such obstructions when they exist.” Gilman, 3 Wall.,
at 725. Thus, any activity that “interferes with, obstructs,
or prevents such commerce and navigation, though done on land, may
be punished by congress.” Coombs, 12 Pet., at 78. But,
activities that merely “affect” water-based commerce,
such as those regulated by “[i]nspection laws, quarantine
laws, health laws of every description, as well as laws for
regulating the internal commerce of a State,” are not within
Congress’ channels-of-commerce authority. Gibbons, 9
Wheat., at 203; see also Corfield, 6 F. Cas., at
550.

															This understanding of the limits of
Congress’ channels-of-commerce authority prevailed through
the end of the 19th century. The Court’s cases consistently
recognized that Congress has authority over navigable waters for
only the limited “purpose of regulating and improving
navigation.” Gibson v. United States, 166 U.S.
269, 271–272 (1897); see also Port of Seattle v.
Oregon & Washington R. Co., 255 U.S.
56, 63 (1921) (“The right of the United States in the
navigable waters within the several States is limited to the
control thereof for purposes of navigation”). And, this Court
was careful to reaffirm that “technical title to the beds of
the navigable rivers of the United States is either in the States
in which the rivers are situated, or in the owners of the land
bordering upon such rivers” as determined by “local
law.” United States v. Chandler-Dunbar Water Power
Co., 229 U.S.
53, 60 (1913).

															The River and Harbor Acts of 1890, 1894, and
1899 illustrate the limits of the channels-of-commerce authority.
The 1890 Act authorizes the Secretary of War to
“prohibi[t]” “the creation of any obstruction,
not affirmatively authorized by law, to the navigable capacity of
any waters, in respect of which the United States has
jurisdiction.” §10, 26Stat. 454. The 1894 Act made it
unlawful to deposit matter into “any harbor or river of the
United States” that the Federal Government has appropriated
money to improve and prohibited injuring improvements built by the
United States in “any of its navigable waters.”
§6, 28Stat. 363.

															Congress consolidated and expanded these
authorities in the 1899 Act. Section 10 of the Act prohibits
“[t]he creation of any obstruction . . . to the
navigable capacity of any of the waters of the United
States,” requires a permit to build “structures in any
. . . water of the United States,” and makes it
unlawful “to excavate or fill, or in any manner to alter or
modify the course, location, condition, or capacity” of any
water, “within the limits of any breakwater, or of the
channel of any navigable water of the United States.” 30
Stat. 1151 (codified, as amended, at 33 U. S. C.
§403). In addition, §13 of the Act, sometimes referred to
as the “Refuse Act,” prohibits throwing, discharging,
or depositing “any refuse matter . . . into any
navigable water of the United States, or into any tributary of any
navigable water from which the same shall float or be washed into
such navigable water.” 30Stat. 1152 (codified, as amended, at
33 U. S. C. §407). Section 13 also prohibits
depositing material “on the bank of any navigable water, or
on the bank of any tributary of any navigable water, where the same
shall be liable to be washed into such navigable water
. . . whereby navigation shall or may be impeded or
obstructed.” Ibid.

															Three things stand out about these provisions.
First, they use the terms “navigable water,”
“water of the United States,” and “navigable
water of the United States” interchangeably. 33
U. S. C. §§403 and 407; see also V. Albrecht
& S. Nickelsburg, Could SWANCC Be Right? A New Look at
the Legislative History of the Clean Water Act, 32 Env.
L. Rev. 11042, 11044 (2002) (Albrecht & Nickelsburg). As a
result, courts have done the same in decisions interpreting the
River and Harbor Acts. See, e.g., United States v.
Stoeco Homes, Inc., 498 F.2d 597, 608–609 (CA3 1974);
New England Dredging Co. v. United States, 144 F.
932, 933–934 (CA1 1906); Blake v. United
States, 
181 F. Supp. 584, 587–588 (ED Va. 1960).

															Second, Congress asserted its authority only to
the extent that obstructions or refuse matter could impede
navigation or navigable capacity. Thus, in United States v.
Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174
U.S. 690 (1899), this Court recognized that any “act
sought to be enjoined” under the 1890 Act must be “one
which fairly and directly tends to obstruct (that is, interfere
with or diminish) the navigable capacity of a stream.”
Id., at 709; accord, Lake Shore & Michigan Southern
R. Co. v. Ohio, 165 U.S.
365, 369 (1897) (holding that federal jurisdiction over
“navigable waters” was limited to preventing
“interfering with commerce”). Similarly, in
Wisconsin v. Illinois, 278 U.S.
367 (1929), this Court interpreted the 1899 Act in light of the
constitutional prohibition on Congress “arbitrarily
destroy[ing] or impair[ing] the rights of riparian owners by
legislation which has no real or substantial relation to the
control of navigation or appropriateness to that end.”
Id., at 415.[1] The
touchstone, thus, remained actual navigation.

															Third, §13 of the Act requires some form of
surface water connection between a tributary and traditionally
navigable waters. See 33 U. S. C. §407 (prohibiting
depositing refuse “into any tributary of any navigable water
from which the same shall float or be washed into such navigable
water”). To be sure, the Refuse Act also prohibits leaving
refuse “on the bank of any navigable water, or on the bank of
any tributary of any navigable water, where the same shall be
liable to be washed into such navigable water.” Ibid.
But, this prohibition reflects nothing more than Congress’
traditional authority to regulate acts done on land that directly
impair the navigability of traditionally navigable waters. See
Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174 U. S., at 708
(explaining that the Act reaches “any obstruction to the
navigable capacity, and anything, wherever done or however done,
. . . which tends to destroy the navigable capacity of
one of the navigable waters of the United States”); see also
Northern Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 104 F. 691,
693 (CA8 1900); Coombs, 12 Pet., at 78. It does not mean
that the land itself is a navigable water.[2]

															The history of federal regulation of navigable
waters demonstrates that Congress’ authority over navigation,
as traditionally understood, was narrow but deep. It only applied
to a discrete set of navigable waters and could only be used to
keep those waters open for interstate commerce. See Port of
Seattle, 255 U. S., at 63; Rio Grande Dam &
Irrigation Co., 174 U. S., at 709. Yet, where Congress had
authority, it displaced the States’ traditional sovereignty
over their navigable waters and allowed Congress to regulate
activities even on land that could directly cause obstructions to
navigable capacity. Gilman, 3 Wall., at 724–725;
Coombs, 12 Pet., at 78.

															In light of the depth of this new federal power,
it was carefully limited—mere “effects” on
interstate commerce were not sufficient to trigger Congress’
navigation authority. As one District Court presciently observed in
interpreting the term “navigable waters of the United
States” in the Steamboat Act of 1838:

															“To make a particular branch of
commerce or trade within a state, a part of the commerce among the
several states, it would not be sufficient that it was remotely
connected with that commerce among the several states; for almost
everything and every occupation and employment in life are remotely
connected with that commerce or navigation. And if congress has the
right to regulate every employment or pursuit thus remotely
connected with that commerce, of which they have the control, then
it has the right to regulate nearly the entire business and
employment of the citizens of the several states. . . .
Yet, if congress has the power to regulate all these employments,
and a thousand others equally connected with that commerce, then it
can regulate nearly all the concerns of life, and nearly all the
employments of the citizens of the several states; and the state
governments might as well be abolished. It is not sufficient, then,
that navigation, or trade, or business of any kind, within a state,
be remotely connected, or, perhaps, connected at all with
‘commerce with foreign nations, or among the several states,
or with the Indian tribes,’ it should be a part of that
commerce, to authorize congress to regulate it.” The James
Morrison, 26 F. Cas. 579, 581 (No. 15,465) (DC Mo. 1846).

															The Court’s observation that
“federal regulation was largely limited to ensuring that
‘traditional navigable waters’ . . . remained
free of impediments,” ante, at 2, thus does no more
than reflect the original understanding of the federal authority
over navigable waters.

															B

															As noted above, the scope of Congress’
authority over waters was defined by the traditional concept of
navigability, imported with significant modifications from the
English common law.[3] Thus,
Congress could regulate only “navigable waters.”
Consistent with that backdrop, the term “navigable
waters”—used interchangeably with “waters of the
United States” and “navigable waters of the United
States”—referred to the waters subject to
Congress’ traditional authority over navigable waters until
the enactment of the CWA.

															1

															The term “navigable waters” has
been in use since the founding to refer to the highways of commerce
that were key to the Nation’s development. Great cities like
Philadelphia and St. Louis emerged at first as commercial
ports along these navigable waters. The Framers recognized that
“Providence has in a particular manner blessed” our
country with “[a] succession of navigable waters” that
“bind [the Nation] together; while the most noble rivers in
the world, running at convenient distances, present [Americans]
with highways for the easy communication of friendly aids and the
mutual transportation and exchange of their various
commodities.” The Federalist No. 2, p. 38 (C. Rossiter
ed. 1961) (J. Jay). These “vast rivers, stretching far
inland” have been of “transcendent importance” to
our Nation’s economic expansion by forming “great
highways” for commerce. L. Houck, Law of Navigable Rivers
xiii (1868).

															This Court authoritatively set out the scope of
the term “navigable waters of the United States” in the
seminal case of The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557 (1871). That
case arose under the Steamboat Act of 1838, which prohibited the
transportation of goods “upon the bays, lakes, rivers, or
other navigable waters of the United States.” §2, 5
Stat. 304. This Court held that the term “navigable”
refers to waters that are “navigable in fact,” meaning
that “they are used, or are susceptible of being used, in
their ordinary condition, as highways for commerce, over which
trade and travel are or may be conducted in the customary modes of
trade and travel on water.” The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall.,
at 563. The Court then explained that navigable waters are
“of the United States,” “in contradistinction
from the navigable waters of the States, when they form in their
ordinary condition by themselves, or by uniting with other waters,
a continued highway over which commerce is or may be carried on
with other States or foreign countries in the customary modes in
which such commerce is conducted by water.” Ibid.; see
also The Montello, 11 Wall. 411, 415 (1871) (“If
. . . the river is not of itself a highway for commerce
with other States or foreign countries, or does not form such
highway by its connection with other waters, and is only navigable
between different places within the State, then it is not a
navigable water of the United States, but only a navigable water of
the State”). It is this “junction” between waters
to “for[m] a continued highway for commerce, both with other
States and with foreign countries,” that brings the water
“under the direct control of Congress in the exercise of its
commercial power.” The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall., at 564.
The definition of a “navigable water of the United
States” was thus linked directly to the limits on
Congress’ commerce authority: A navigable water of the United
States was one that was ordinarily used for interstate or foreign
commerce.

															Wetlands were generally excluded from this
definition. In Leovy v. United States, 177 U.S.
621 (1900), for example, the Court employed the Daniel
Ball test to hold that the term “navigable waters of the
United States,” as used in the 1890 River and Harbor Act, did
not “prevent the exercise by the State of Louisiana of its
power to reclaim swamp and overflowed lands by regulating and
controlling the current of small streams not used habitually as
arteries of interstate commerce.” 177 U. S., at 632. The
Court observed that applying the Act to wetlands reclamation
“would extend the paramount jurisdiction of the United States
over all the flowing waters in the States.” Id., at
633. “If such were the necessary construction of the”
term “navigable water,” the Court explained, the River
and Harbor Act’s “validity might well be
questioned.” Ibid. But, the Court declined to
interpret the Act to reach the wetlands, because it recognized that
the phrase “navigable waters of the United States”
encompassed only those waters reached by the traditional
channels-of-commerce authority:

															“When it is remembered that the
source of the power of the general government to act at all in this
matter arises out of its power to regulate commerce with foreign
countries and among the States, it is obvious that what the
Constitution and the acts of Congress have in view is the promotion
and protection of commerce in its international and interstate
aspect, and a practical construction must be put on these
enactments as intended for such large and important
purposes.” Ibid.

															The Court thus held that the mere use of a
wetland by fishermen was not sufficient to make the wetland a
navigable water of the United States; it “was not shown that
passengers were ever carried through it, or that freight destined
to any other State than Louisiana, or, indeed, destined for any
market in Louisiana, was ever, much less habitually, carried
through it.” Id., at 627.[4]

															The Daniel Ball test, with minor
variations, marked the limits of federal jurisdiction over waters
up to the enactment of the CWA. For instance, in Economy Light
& Power Co. v. United States, 256 U.S.
113 (1921), the Court applied The Daniel Ball but
expanded it to hold that the River and Harbor Act of 1899 reaches
waters that are not currently capable of supporting interstate
commerce, though they once did. 256 U. S., at 123–124.
And, in United States v. Appalachian Elec. Power Co.,
311 U.S.
377 (1940), the Court applied The Daniel Ball to reach
waters that could be made navigable with reasonable and feasible
improvement. 311 U. S., at 408–409. While these cases
expanded the outer boundaries of the term, creating an expanded
form of the Daniel Ball test, they reflect the Court’s
longstanding view that the statutory term “navigable
water” required application of the Daniel Ball
test.

															2

															In the New Deal era, as is well known, this
Court adopted a greatly expanded conception of Congress’
commerce authority by permitting Congress to regulate any private
intrastate activity that substantially affects interstate commerce,
either by itself or when aggregated with many similar activities.
See Wickard v. Filburn, 317 U.S.
111, 127–129 (1942); see also United States v.
Darby, 312 U.S.
100, 119 (1941). Yet, this expansion did not fundamentally
change the Court’s understanding that the term
“navigable waters” referred to waters used for
interstate commerce. Thus, in Appalachian Elec., the
Court continued to apply the concept of navigability to determine
the scope of Congress’ Commerce Clause authority to require
licenses under the Federal Water Power Act for the construction of
hydroelectric dams in “navigable waters.” 311
U. S., at 406–410. Only after applying the Daniel
Ball definition to determine that the river in question was
navigable did the Court hold that Congress had plenary authority
over the erection of structures in the river, regardless of whether
the structure actually impeded navigability. 311 U. S., at
423–426. While this represented an expansive application of
the old concept that Congress can prevent obstructions to navigable
capacity, see supra, at 4, 7–8, Appalachian
Elec. made clear that the term “navigable
waters” remained tethered to Congress’ traditional
channels-of-commerce authority—not to the broader conceptions
of the commerce authority adopted by the Court at that time.

															The next year, in Oklahoma ex rel.
Phillips v. Guy F. Atkinson Co., 313
U.S. 508 (1941), the Court reaffirmed that the term
“navigable waters,” this time as used in the Flood
Control Act of 1936, was to be interpreted in light of the expanded
Daniel Ball test. 313 U. S., at 522–525.
Significantly, Oklahoma was decided mere months after
Darby, one of the most significant cases expanding the scope
of the commerce authority. 312 U. S., at 119. However,
Oklahoma did not so much as mention Darby in
construing the jurisdiction Congress conveyed in the term
“navigable waters.” Instead, it cited Darby only
in passing and to support the argument that, once a river is deemed
navigable under the channels-of-commerce authority, Congress has
authority to protect “the nation’s arteries of
commerce” by regulating intrastate activities on nonnavigable
parts and tributaries of the navigable river lest such activities
“impai[r] navigation itself.” Oklahoma, 313
U. S., at 525. This was nothing more than an application of
the principle that Congress can regulate activities that obstruct
navigable capacity. Thus, even as the Court expanded the Commerce
Clause in other contexts, it continued to understand that the term
“navigable waters” refers solely to the aquatic
channels of interstate commerce over which Congress traditionally
exercised authority.

															3

															This understanding of the term
“navigable waters”—i.e., as shorthand for
waters subject to Congress’ authority under the Daniel
Ball test—persisted up to the enactment of the CWA. See,
e.g., Stoeco Homes, Inc., 498 F. 2d, at
608–609; United States v. Joseph G. Moretti,
Inc., 478 F.2d 418, 428–429 (CA5 1973); see also D.
Guinn, An Analysis of Navigable Waters of the United States, 18
Baylor L. Rev. 559, 579 (1966) (“[T]he test of The
Daniel Ball and Appalachian Power Co. are religiously
cited as being the basis for the holding on the issue of
navigability”). As a court observed near the time of the
CWA’s enactment, “[a]lthough the definition of
‘navigability’ laid down in The Daniel Ball has
subsequently been modified and clarified, its definition of
‘navigable water of the United States,’ insofar as it
requires a navigable interstate linkage by water, appears to remain
unchanged.” Hardy Salt Co. v. Southern Pacific
Transp. Co., 501 F.2d 1156, 1167 (CA10 1974) (citations
omitted). This Court’s cases, too, continued to apply
traditional navigability concepts in cases under the River and
Harbor Acts right up to the CWA’s enactment. See United
States v. Standard Oil Co., 384
U.S. 224, 226 (1966) (holding that spilling oil in a navigable
water was prohibited by the Refuse Act (§13 of the 1899 Act)
because “its presence in our rivers and harbors is both a
menace to navigation and a pollutant”); United States
v. Republic Steel Corp., 362 U.S.
482, 487–491 (1960) (“diminution of the navigable
capacity of a waterway” required for violation of the Refuse
Act). Thus, on the eve of the CWA’s enactment, the term
“navigable waters” meant those waters that are, were,
or could be used as highways of interstate or foreign commerce.

															II

															This history demonstrates that Congress was
not writing on a blank slate in the CWA, which defines federal
jurisdiction using the same terms used in the River and Harbor
Acts: “navigable waters” and “the waters of the
United States,” 33 U. S. C. §§1311(a),
1362(7), (12). As explained above, courts and Congress had long
used the terms “navigable water,” “navigable
water of the United States,” and “the waters of the
United States” interchangeably to signify those waters to
which the traditional channels-of-commerce authority extended. See
supra, at 6. The terms “navigable waters” and
“waters of the United States” shared a core requirement
that the water be a “highway over which commerce is or may be
carried,” with the term “of the United States”
doing the independent work of requiring that such commerce
“be carried on with other States or foreign countries.”
The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall., at 563. The text of the CWA thus
reflects the traditional balance between federal and state
authority over navigable waters, as set out by The Daniel
Ball. It would be strange indeed if Congress sought to effect a
fundamental transformation of federal jurisdiction over water
through phrases that had been in use to describe the traditional
scope of that jurisdiction for well over a century and that carried
a well-understood meaning.[5]

															The Army Corps of Engineers originally
understood the CWA in precisely this way. In its 1974 regulation
establishing the first CWA §404 permitting program,[6] the Corps interpreted the term
“the waters of the United States” to establish
jurisdiction over the traditional navigable waters as determined by
the expanded Daniel Ball test, noting also that the term is
limited by Congress’ navigation authority. 39 Fed. Reg.
12115. The Corps anchored its jurisdiction in the expanded
Daniel Ball test, defining “navigable waters” to
include “those waters of the United States which are subject
to the ebb and flow of the tide, and/or are presently, or have been
in the past, or may be in the future susceptible for use for
purposes of interstate or foreign commerce.” 33 CFR
§209.120(d)(1) (1974); see also
§§209.260(d)(1)–(3) (requiring “[p]ast,
present, or potential presence of interstate or foreign
commerce,” “[p]hysical capabilities for use by
commerce,” and “[d]efined geographic limits of the
water body”). The regulations also made clear that
traditional navigability factors were the baseline for CWA
jurisdiction: “It is the water body’s capability of use
by the public for purposes of transportation or commerce which is
the determinative factor.” §209.260(e)(1).

															Almost immediately, however, a few courts and
the recently created Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rejected
this interpretation. Instead, they interpreted the CWA to assert
the full extent of Congress’ New Deal era authority to
regulate anything that substantially affects interstate commerce by
itself or in the aggregate. See United States v. Ashland
Oil & Transp. Co., 504 F.2d 1317, 1323–1329 (CA6
1974); P. F. Z. Properties, Inc. v. Train, 
393 F. Supp. 1370, 1381 (DC 1975); National Resource Defense
Council, Inc. v. Callaway, 
392 F. Supp. 685, 686 (DC 1975); United States v.
Holland, 
373 F. Supp. 665, 669, 672–674 (MD Fla. 1974); 40 CFR
§125.1(o) (1974) (initial EPA CWA definition). The courts that
reached this conclusion relied almost exclusively on legislative
history and statutory purpose. See, e.g., Holland,
373 F. Supp., at 672 (“The foregoing [legislative
history] compels the Court to conclude that the former test of
navigability was indeed defined away in the [CWA]”). But
signals from legislative history cannot rebut clear statutory text,
and the text of the CWA employs words that had long been
universally understood to reach only those waters subject to
Congress’ channels-of- commerce authority. See supra,
at 15.

															These courts and the EPA had only one textual
hook for their interpretation: In defining the term
“navigable waters” as “the waters of the United
States,” the CWA seemed to drop the term
“navigable” from the operative part of the definition.
Seizing on this phrasing, the EPA’s general counsel asserted
in 1973 that “the deletion of the word
‘navigable’ eliminates the requirement of navigability.
The only remaining requirement, then, is that pollution of waters
covered by the bill must be capable of affecting interstate
commerce.” 1 EPA Gen. Counsel Op. 295 (1973). Similarly, the
District Court that vacated the Corps’ original CWA
definition held, without any analysis or citation, that the term
“the waters of the United States” in the CWA is
“not limited to the traditional tests of navigability.”
National Resource Defense Council, 392 F. Supp., at
671.

															That interpretation cannot be right. For one,
the terms “navigable waters” and “the waters of
the United States” had long been used synonymously by courts
and Congress. The CWA simply used the terms in the same manner as
the River and Harbor Acts. Moreover, no source prior to the CWA had
ever asserted that the term “the waters of the United
States,” when not modified by “navigable,”
reached any water that may affect interstate commerce. Instead,
The Daniel Ball made clear that “[t]he phrase
‘waters of the United States, in contradistinction from the
navigable waters of the States,’ . . .
distinguishes interstate from intrastate waters.” Albrecht
& Nickelsburg 11049 (quoting The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall.,
at 563); accord, 1 A. Knauth, Benedict on Admiralty §44, p. 96
(6th ed. 1940) (“The inland lakes of various States are
navigable but, having no navigable outlet linking them with our
system of water-ways, have never been held to be public
waters of the United States” (emphasis added)).
The text of the CWA extends jurisdiction to “navigable
waters,” and—precisely tracking The Daniel
Ball—clarifies that it reaches “the waters of the
United States,” rather than the navigable waters of the
States.

															Thus, the CWA’s use of the phrase
“the waters of the United States” reinforces, rather
than lessens, the need for a water to be at least part of “a
continued highway over which commerce is or may be carried on with
other States or foreign countries in the customary modes in which
such commerce is conducted by water.” The Daniel Ball,
10 Wall., at 563. At most, the omission of the word
“navigable” signifies that the CWA adopts the expanded
Daniel Ball test—that includes waters that are, have
been, or can be reasonably made navigable in fact—in its
statutory provisions. The Federal Government’s
interpretation, by contrast, renders the use of the term
“navigable” a nullity and involves an unprecedented and
extravagant reading of the well-understood term of art “the
waters of the United States.” See Albrecht & Nickelsburg
11049 (“EPA’s conclusion is ahistorical as well as
illogical”).[7]
“[T]he waters of the United States” does
not mean any water in the United States.

															There would be little need to explain any of
this if the agencies had not effectively flouted our decision in
SWANCC, which restored navigability as the touchstone of
federal jurisdiction under the CWA, and rejected the key arguments
supporting an expansive interpretation of the CWA’s text. We
expressly held that Congress’ “use of the phrase
‘waters of the United States’ ” in the CWA
is not “a basis for reading the term ‘navigable
waters’ out of the statute”—directly
contradicting the EPA’s 1973 interpretation, upon which every
subsequent expansion of its authority has been based. 531
U. S., at 172. We also held that the Corps did not
“mist[ake] Congress’ intent” when it promulgated
its 1974 regulations, under which “ ‘the
determinative factor’ ” for navigability was a
“ ‘water body’s capability of use by the
public for purposes of transportation or
commerce.’ ” Id., at 168 (quoting 33 CFR
§209.260(e)(1)). In doing so, we rejected reliance on the
CWA’s “ambiguous” legislative history, which the
EPA had used “to expand the definition of ‘navigable
waters’ ” to the outer limit of the commerce
authority as interpreted in the New Deal. 531 U. S., at 168,
n. 3.[8] Instead, we made
clear that Congress did not intend “to exert anything more
than its commerce power over navigation.” Ibid.; see
also id., at 173 (rejecting the Government’s argument
that the CWA invokes “Congress’ power to regulate
intrastate activities that ‘substantially affect’
interstate commerce”).

															SWANCC thus interpreted the text of the
CWA as implementing Congress’ “traditional jurisdiction
over waters that were or had been navigable in fact or which could
reasonably be so made”—i.e., the expanded
Daniel Ball test. 531 U. S., at 172 (citing
Appalachian Elec., 311 U. S., at
407–408).[9] And,
consistent with the traditional link between navigability and the
limits of Congress’ regulatory authority, SWANCC noted
that any broader interpretation would raise “significant
constitutional and federalism questions” and “result in
a significant impingement of the States’ traditional and
primary authority over land and water use.” 531 U. S.,
at 174. Both in its holdings and in its mode of analysis,
SWANCC cannot be reconciled with the agencies’ sharp
departure from the centuries-old understanding of navigability and
the traditional limits of Congress’ channels-of-commerce
authority.

															In sum, the plain text of the CWA and our
opinion in SWANCC demonstrate that the CWA must be
interpreted in light of Congress’ traditional authority over
navigable waters. See Albrecht & Nickelsburg 11055 (noting that
SWANCC “states more than once that Congress’ use
of the term ‘navigable waters’ signifies that Congress
intended to exercise its traditional authority over navigable
waters, and not its broader power over all things that
substantially affect commerce”). Yet, for decades, the EPA
(of its own license) and the Corps (under the compulsion of an
unreasoned and since discredited District Court order) have issued
substantively identical regulatory definitions of “the waters
of the United States” that completely ignore navigability and
instead expand the CWA’s coverage to the outer limits of the
Court’s New Deal-era Commerce Clause precedents.

															III

															This case demonstrates the unbounded breadth
of the jurisdiction that the EPA and the Corps have asserted under
the CWA. The regulatory definition applied to the Sacketts’
property declares “intrastate” waters, wetlands, and
various other wet things to be “waters of the United
States” if their “use, degradation or destruction
. . . could affect interstate or foreign
commerce.” 40 CFR §230.3(s)(3) (2008) (emphasis added).
To leave no doubt that the agencies have entirely broken from
traditional navigable waters, they give several examples of
qualifying waters: those that “are or could be used by
interstate or foreign travelers for recreational or other
purposes,” those “[f]rom which fish or shellfish are or
could be taken and sold in interstate or foreign commerce,”
those that “are used or could be used for industrial purposes
by industries in interstate commerce,” “[t]ributaries
of ” any such waters, and “[w]etlands adjacent
to” any such waters. §§230.3(s)(3)(i)–(iii),
(5), (7). This definition and others like it are premised on the
fallacy repudiated in SWANCC: that the text of the CWA
expands federal jurisdiction beyond Congress’ traditional
“commerce power over navigation.” 531 U. S., at
168, n. 3.

															Nonetheless, under these boundless standards,
the agencies have “asserted jurisdiction over virtually any
parcel of land containing a channel or conduit . . .
through which rainwater or drainage may occasionally or
intermittently flow,” including “storm drains, roadside
ditches, ripples of sand in the desert that may contain water once
a year, and lands that are covered by floodwaters once every 100
years.” Rapanos, 547 U. S., at 722 (plurality
opinion). The agencies’ definition “engulf[s] entire
cities and immense arid wastelands” alike. Ibid.
Indeed, because “the entire land area of the United States
lies in some drainage basin, and an endless network of visible
channels furrows the entire surface,” “any plot of land
containing such a channel may potentially be regulated.”
Ibid.

															If this interpretation were correct, the only
prudent move for any landowner in America would be to ask the
Federal Government for permission before undertaking any kind of
development. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 86, 116–117. This regime
turns Congress’ traditionally limited navigation authority on
its head. The baseline under the Constitution, the CWA, and the
Court’s precedents is state control of waters. See
SWANCC, 531 U. S., at 174 (reaffirming “the
States’ traditional and primary power over land and water
use”); Leovy, 177 U. S., at 633 (repudiating an
interpretation of the 1899 Act that would render practically every
“creek or stream in the entire country” a
“navigable water of the United States” and
“subject the officers and agents of a State . . .
to fine and imprisonment” for draining a swamp “unless
permission [was] first obtained from the Secretary of War”).
By contrast, the agencies’ interpretation amounts to a
federal police power, exercised in the most aggressive possible
way.

															Thankfully, applying well-established
navigability rules makes this a straightforward case. The
“wetlands” on the Sacketts’ property are not
“waters of the United States” for several independently
sufficient reasons. First, for the reasons set out by the Court,
the Sacketts’ wetlands are not “waters” because
they lack a continuous surface connection with a traditional
navigable water. See ante, at 27. Second, the nonnavigable
so-called “tributary” (really, a roadside ditch) across
the street from the Sacketts’ property is not a water of the
United States because it is not, has never been, and cannot
reasonably be made a highway of interstate or foreign commerce. See
SWANCC, 531 U. S., at 172. Third, the agencies have not
attempted to establish that Priest Lake is a navigable water under
the expanded Daniel Ball test. The lake is purely
intrastate, and the agencies have not shown that it is a highway of
interstate or foreign commerce. Instead, the agencies rely
primarily upon interstate tourism and the lake’s attenuated
connection to navigable waters. See U. S. Army Corps of
Engineers, G. Rayner, Priest Lake Jurisdictional Determination
(Feb. 27, 2007); see also Brief for National Association of Home
Builders of the United States as Amicus Curiae 21–24.
But, this is likely insufficient under the traditional navigability
tests to which the CWA pegs jurisdiction. See supra, at
10–13; accord, Tr. of Oral Arg. 119 (EPA counsel conceding
that Congress “hasn’t used its full Commerce Clause
authority” in the CWA). Finally, even assuming that a
navigable water is involved, the agencies have not established that
the Sacketts’ actions would obstruct or otherwise impede
navigable capacity or the suitability of the water for interstate
commerce. See Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174
U. S., at 709.

															This is not to say that determining whether a
water qualifies under the CWA is always easy. But, it is
vital that we ask the right question in determining what
constitutes “the waters of the United States”: whether
the water is within Congress’ traditional authority over the
interstate channels of commerce. Here, no elaborate analysis is
required to know that the Sacketts’ land is not a
water, much less a water of the United States.

															IV

															What happened to the CWA is indicative of
deeper problems with the Court’s Commerce Clause
jurisprudence. The eclipse of Congress’ well-defined
authority over the channels of interstate commerce tracks the
Court’s expansion of Congress’ power “[t]o
regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes.” Art. I, §8,
cl. 3. As I have explained at length, the Court’s
Commerce Clause jurisprudence has significantly departed from the
original meaning of the Constitution. See Gonzales v.
Raich, 545 U.S.
1, 58–59 (2005) (dissenting opinion); Lopez, 514
U. S., at 586–602 (concurring opinion). “The
Clause’s text, structure, and history all indicate that, at
the time of the founding, the term
‘ “commerce” consisted of selling, buying,
and bartering, as well as transporting for these
purposes.’ ” Raich, 545 U. S., at 58.
This meaning “stood in contrast to productive activities like
manufacturing and agriculture,” and founding era sources
demonstrate that “the term ‘commerce’ [was]
consistently used to mean trade or exchange—not all
economically gainful activity that has some attenuated connection
to trade or exchange.” Ibid. (citing Lopez, 514
U. S., at 586–587 (Thomas, J., concurring); Barnett
112–125).[10] By
departing from this limited meaning, the Court’s cases have
licensed federal regulatory schemes that would have been
“unthinkable” to the Constitution’s Framers and
ratifiers. Raich, 545 U. S., at 59 (opinion of Thomas,
J.).

															Perhaps nowhere is this deviation more evident
than in federal environmental law, much of which is uniquely
dependent upon an expansive interpretation of the Commerce Clause.
See Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Reclamation
Assn., Inc., 452 U.S.
264, 281–283 (1981); see also Brief for Claremont
Institute’s Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence as
Amicus Curiae 17–25. And many environmental regulatory
schemes seem to push even the limits of the Court’s New Deal
era Commerce Clause precedents, see Hodel, 452
U. S., at 309–313 (Rehnquist, J., concurring in
judgment), to say nothing of the Court’s more recent
precedents reining in the commerce power. See, e.g.,
SWANCC, 531 U. S., at 173–174; cf. Rancho
Viejo, LLC v. Norton, 
334 F.3d 1158, 1160 (CADC 2003) (Roberts, J., dissenting from
denial of rehearing en banc) (“The panel’s approach in
this case leads to the result that regulating the taking [under the
Endangered Species Act] of a hapless toad that, for reasons of its
own, lives its entire life in California constitutes regulating
‘Commerce among the several States’ ”
(ellipsis omitted)).

															The Court’s opinion today curbs a serious
expansion of federal authority that has simultaneously degraded
States’ authority and diverted the Federal Government from
its important role as guarantor of the Nation’s great
commercial water highways into something resembling “a local
zoning board.” Rapanos, 547 U. S., at 738
(plurality opinion). But, wetlands are just the beginning of the
problems raised by the agencies’ assertion of jurisdiction in
this case. Despite our clear guidance in SWANCC that the CWA
extends only to the limits of Congress’ traditional
jurisdiction over navigable waters, the EPA and the Corps have
continued to treat the statute as if it were based on New Deal era
conceptions of Congress’ commerce power. But, while not all
environmental statutes are so textually limited, Congress chose to
tether federal jurisdiction under the CWA to its traditional
authority over navigable waters. The EPA and the Corps must respect
that decision.

Notes
1
 Courts had long carefully
enforced limits on Congress’ navigation authority in
prosecutions brought under the Act of July 7, 1838, ch. 191, 5Stat.
304 (Steamboat Acts of 1838), which prohibited the transportation
of goods “upon the bays, lakes, rivers, or other navigable
waters of the United States” by certain steamboats. See,
e.g., The Seneca, 27 F. Cas. 1021 (No. 16,251) (DC
Wis. 1861); see also The James Morrison, 26 F. Cas. 579, 582
(No. 15,465) (DC Mo. 1846) (holding that the 1838 Act did not reach
a ship whose “employment ha[d] no other than a remote
connection with ‘commerce or navigation among the several
states;’ no more connection than has the farmer who
cultivates hemp, tobacco or cotton for a market in other
states—the miner who digs and smelts lead—the
manufacturer who manufactures for the same market, or the traveler
who intends purchasing any of these articles”).
2
 The early 20th century
also saw the Reclamation Act of 1902, ch. 1093, 32Stat. 388;
Federal Power Act, ch. 285, 41Stat. 1063; Oil Pollution Act, 1924,
ch. 316, 43Stat. 604; and Flood Control Act of 1936, ch. 688,
49Stat. 1570, all of which relied on navigability. See Walston
724–726. Although the Acts were also designed to achieve
incidental benefits such as pollution control, Congress located its
authority in preserving navigation. Ibid.
3
 The English rule tied
navigability to the ebb and flow of the tides, but began to be
eroded in America as early as the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 due
to the superior commercial capacity of American inland rivers. See
The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557, 563 (1871); Propeller
Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh, 12 How. 443, 454–457
(1852); see also Economy Light & Power Co. v. United
States, 256 U.S.
113, 120 (1921) (“[I]t is curious and interesting that
the importance of these inland waterways, and the inappropriateness
of the tidal test in defining our navigable waters, was thus
recognized by the Congress of the Confederation [in the Northwest
Ordinance] more than 80 years before this court decided The
Daniel Ball . . . and more than 60 years before
The Propeller Genesee Chief ”).
4
 Leovy v. United
States also reflected the law’s longstanding hostility to
wetlands: “If there is any fact which may be supposed to be
known by everybody, and, therefore, by courts, it is that swamps
and stagnant waters are the cause of malarial and malignant fevers,
and that the police power is never more legitimately exercised than
in removing such nuisances.” 177 U. S., at 636.
Traditionally, the only time wetlands were the subject of federal
legislation was to aid the States in draining them. See,
e.g., Swamp Land Act of 1850, ch. 84, 9Stat. 519; see also
S. Johnson, Wetlands Law: A Course Source 25–26 (2d ed.
2018). Wetlands preservation only gained traction due, in large
part, to advances in firearms technology that made waterfowl
hunting feasible. G. Baldassarre & E. Bolen, Waterfowl Ecology
and Management 10–14 (1994).
5
 In fact, when Congress
has wished to depart from this traditional meaning, it has done so
expressly, as in parts of the Federal Power Act, §23, 41Stat.
1075 (requiring approval for dam construction “across, along,
over, or in any stream or part thereof, other than those defined
herein this chapter as navigable waters”); the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act, ch. 758, §2(a), 62Stat. 1155 (as
amended, 86Stat. 816) (authorizing federal-state cooperation to
abate water pollution in “interstate waters” and their
tributaries); and the Water Quality Act of 1965, 79Stat.
905–906 (authorizing grants to research abatement of
pollution into “any waters”); see Hardy Salt Co.
v. Southern Pacific Transp. Co., 501 F.2d 1156, 1168 (CA10
1974) (noting that Congress only departs from the expanded
Daniel Ball test by using “clear and explicit
language,” as it did in parts of the Federal Power
Act).
6
 Section 404 authorizes
the Corps to “issue permits . . . for the discharge
of dredged or fill material into the navigable waters at specified
disposal sites.” 33 U. S. C. §§1344(a),
(d).
7
 To be sure, the CWA is
more aggressive in regulating navigable waters than the River and
Harbor Acts. But, the increased stringency is not accomplished by
expanding jurisdiction. The Acts use the same jurisdictional terms.
Instead, the difference between them lies in the expanded scope of
activities that the CWA regulates and its shift from an enforcement
and injunctive regime to a previolation licensing regime. See
Albrecht & Nickelsburg 11046. I express no view on the
constitutionality of this regime as applied to navigable waters or
on the Court’s holding in United States v.
Appalachian Elec. Power Co., 311 U.S.
377 (1940), that Congress can regulate things in navigable
waters for purposes other than removing obstructions to navigable
capacity. I note, however, that before the New Deal era, courts
consistently construed statutes to authorize only federal actions
preserving navigable capacity in order to avoid exceeding
Congress’ navigation authority. See supra, at
8–13.
8
 The historical context
demonstrates that it was the Corps’ failure to regulate to
the full extent of Congress’ navigation power, not its
commerce power generally, that led to the enactment of the CWA. See
Albrecht & Nickelsburg, 11047 (explaining that the CWA’s
legislative history is better interpreted “as the Supreme
Court in SWANCC read it, to mean simply that Congress
intended to override previous, unduly narrow agency interpretations
to assert its broadest constitutional authority over the
traditional navigable waters”); see also S. Bodine,
Examining the Term “Waters of the United States” in Its
Historical Context, C. Boyden Gray Center for the Study of the
Administrative State Policy Brief No. 4 (2022).
9
 Section 404(g), added by
the 1977 CWA Amendments, does not demonstrate that the CWA departs
from traditional conceptions of navigability. That provision states
that States may administer permit programs for discharges into
“navigable waters (other than those waters which are
presently used, or are susceptible to use in their natural
condition or by reasonable improvement as a means to transport
interstate or foreign commerce . . . , including wetlands
adjacent thereto).” 91Stat. 1601 (codified, as amended, at 33
U. S. C. §1344(g)). This provision thus authorizes
States to establish their own permit programs over a discrete class
of traditionally navigable waters of the United States: those that
once were navigable waters of the United States, but are no longer
navigable in fact. See Economy Light & Power Co., 256
U. S., at 123–124. Some have asserted that this
nonjurisdictional provision—the function of which in the
statute is to expand state authority—signals that
Congress actually intended an unprecedented expansion of federal
authority over the States. Rapanos v. United States,
547 U.S.
715, 805–806 (2006) (Stevens, J., dissenting); see also
post, at 3–5 (Kavanaugh, J., concurring in judgment);
post, at 1–3 (Kagan, J., concurring in judgment). But,
as the Court explains, not only is §404(g) not the relevant
definitional provision, its reference to “wetlands” is
perfectly consistent with the commonsense recognition that some
wetlands are indistinguishable from navigable waters with which
they have continuous surface connections. Ante, at
18–22, 27. To infer Congress’ intent to upend over a
century of settled understanding and effect an unprecedented
transfer of authority over land and water to the Federal
Government, based on nothing more than a negative inference from a
parenthetical in a subsection that preserves state authority, is
counterintuitive to say the least.
10  Further scholarship notes that the
term “commerce” as originallyunderstood “was
bound tightly with the Lex Mercatoria and the sort of
activities engaged in by merchants: buying and selling products
made by others (and sometimes land), associated finance and
financial instruments, navigation and other carriage, and
intercourse across jurisdictional lines.” R. Natelson, The
Legal Meaning of “Commerce” in the Commerce Clause, 80
St. John’s L. Rev. 789, 845 (2006). This “did not
include agriculture, manufacturing, mining, malum in se
crime, or land use. Nor did it include activities that merely
‘substantially affected’ commerce; on the contrary, the
cases included wording explicitly distinguishing such activities
from commerce.” Ibid.


