::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-454
::decision_name::  Sackett v. Environmental Protection Agency
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–454

															_________________

															MICHAEL SACKETT, et ux., PETITIONERS v.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[May 25, 2023]

															Justice Kavanaugh, with whom Justice
Sotomayor, Justice Kagan, and Justice Jackson join, concurring in
the judgment.

															The Clean Water Act generally prohibits dumping
dredged or fill material without a permit into the “waters of
the United States.” 33 U. S. C.
§§1311(a), 1344(a), 1362. The “waters of the United
States” include wetlands that are “adjacent” to
waters covered by the Act—for example, wetlands that are
adjacent to covered rivers or lakes. §§1344(g), 1362(7).
The question in this case is whether the wetlands on the
Sacketts’ residential property are adjacent to covered waters
and therefore covered under the Act.

															The Ninth Circuit held that the wetlands on the
Sacketts’ property are covered by the Clean Water Act
because, as relevant here, the wetlands have a “significant
nexus” to covered waters nearby. 8 F. 4th 1075, 1093 (2021).
The Court today reverses the Ninth Circuit’s judgment.

															I agree with the Court’s reversal of the
Ninth Circuit. In particular, I agree with the Court’s
decision not to adopt the “significant nexus” test for
determining whether a wetland is covered under the Act. And I agree
with the Court’s bottom-line judgment that the wetlands on
the Sacketts’ property are not covered by the Act and are
therefore not subject to permitting requirements.

															I write separately because I respectfully
disagree with the Court’s new test for assessing when
wetlands are covered by the Clean Water Act. The Court concludes
that wetlands are covered by the Act only when the wetlands have a
“continuous surface connection” to waters of the United
States—that is, when the wetlands are “adjoining”
covered waters. Ante, at 20, 22 (internal quotation marks
omitted). In my view, the Court’s “continuous surface
connection” test departs from the statutory text, from 45
years of consistent agency practice, and from this Court’s
precedents. The Court’s test narrows the Clean Water
Act’s coverage of “adjacent” wetlands to mean
only “adjoining” wetlands. But “adjacent”
and “adjoining” have distinct meanings: Adjoining
wetlands are contiguous to or bordering a covered water, whereas
adjacent wetlands include both (i) those wetlands contiguous to or
bordering a covered water, and (ii) wetlands separated from
a covered water only by a man-made dike or barrier, natural river
berm, beach dune, or the like. By narrowing the Act’s
coverage of wetlands to only adjoining wetlands, the Court’s
new test will leave some long-regulated adjacent wetlands no longer
covered by the Clean Water Act, with significant repercussions for
water quality and flood control throughout the United States.
Therefore, I respectfully concur only in the Court’s
judgment.

															I

															The Clean Water Act generally prohibits
dumping a “pollutant”—including dredged or fill
material—into “navigable waters” without a
permit. 33 U. S. C. §§1311(a), 1344(a), 1362.
The Act defines “navigable waters” as “the waters
of the United States, including the territorial seas.”
§1362(7).

															As the Court today ultimately agrees, see
ante, at 19, and the Sacketts acknowledge, see Tr. of Oral
Arg. 7–8, 33–34, 56–57, the statutory term
“waters of the United States” covers wetlands
“adjacent” to waters of the United States—for
example, wetlands adjacent to a river or lake that is itself a
water of the United States. 33 U. S. C.
§1344(g).

															As enacted in 1972, the Clean Water Act
protected “the waters of the United States.”
§§1311(a), 1362(7), 1362(12). In 1975, the Army Corps
interpreted “waters of the United States” to include
wetlands “adjacent to other navigable waters.” 40 Fed.
Reg. 31324. In 1977, Congress expressly adopted that same
understanding of the Act, amending the Act to make clear that only
the Federal Government, and not the States, may issue Clean Water
Act permits for dumping dredged or fill material into certain
“waters of the United States,” “including
wetlands adjacent” to those covered waters. Clean Water Act,
91Stat. 1601; 33 U. S. C. §1344(g). In that 1977
Act, Congress thus expressly recognized “adjacent
wetlands” as “waters of the United States.”

															Interpreting the text of the Act as amended in
1977, this Court has long held that the Act covers
“adjacent” wetlands. See United States v.
Riverside Bayview Homes, Inc., 474 U.S.
121, 134–135, 138 (1985) (“Congress expressly
stated that the term ‘waters’ included adjacent
wetlands.”); see also Rapanos v. United States,
547 U.S.
715, 742 (2006) (plurality opinion) (wetlands that “are
‘adjacent to’ ” waters of the United States
are “covered by the Act”); Solid Waste Agency of
Northern Cook Cty. v. Army Corps of Engineers, 531 U.S.
159, 167, 172 (2001) (recognizing “Congress’
unequivocal” “approval of, the Corps’ regulations
interpreting the [Act] to cover wetlands adjacent to navigable
waters”). The Court has also ruled that the Act’s
coverage of adjacent wetlands does not extend to
“isolated” wetlands. Id., at 168–172.

															So the question here becomes the meaning of
“adjacent” wetlands under the Clean Water Act. As a
matter of ordinary meaning and longstanding agency practice, a
wetland is “adjacent” to a covered water (i) if the
wetland is adjoining—that is, contiguous to or
bordering—a covered water—or (ii) if the wetland
is separated from a covered water only by a man-made dike or
barrier, natural river berm, beach dune, or the like.

															The Court and I agree that wetlands in the first
category—that is, wetlands adjoining a covered
water—are covered as adjacent wetlands. Ante, at
19–22. But the Court and I disagree about the second
category—that is, wetlands separated from a covered water
only by a man-made dike or barrier, natural river berm, beach dune,
or the like. The Court concludes that wetlands in that second
category are not covered as adjacent wetlands because those
wetlands do not have a continuous surface connection to a covered
water—in other words, those wetlands are not adjoining the
covered water. I disagree because the statutory text
(“adjacent”) does not require a continuous surface
connection between those wetlands and covered waters.

															The ordinary meaning of the term
“adjacent” has not changed since Congress amended the
Clean Water Act in 1977 to expressly cover “wetlands
adjacent” to waters of the United States. 91Stat. 1601; 33
U. S. C. §1344(g). Then as now,
“adjacent” means lying near or close to, neighboring,
or not widely separated. Indeed, the definitions of
“adjacent” are notably explicit that two things need
not touch each other in order to be adjacent.
“Adjacent” includes “adjoining” but is not
limited to “adjoining.” See, e.g., Black’s
Law Dictionary 62 (rev. 4th ed. 1968) (defining
“adjacent” as “Lying near or close to; sometimes,
contiguous; neighboring; . . . may not actually
touch”); Black’s Law Dictionary 50 (11th ed. 2019)
(defining “adjacent” as “Lying near or close to,
but not necessarily touching”); see also, e.g.,
Webster’s Third New International Dictionary 26 (1976)
(defining “adjacent” as “to lie near, border
on”; “not distant or far off ”;
“nearby but not touching”).

															By contrast to the Clean Water Act’s
express inclusion of “adjacent” wetlands, other
provisions of the Act use the narrower term
“adjoining.” Compare 33 U. S. C.
§1344(g) with §§1321(b)–(c) (“adjoining
shorelines” and “adjoining shorelines to the navigable
waters”); §1346(c) (“land adjoining the coastal
recreation waters”); see also §1254(n)(4)
(“estuary” includes certain bodies of water
“having unimpaired natural connection with open sea”);
§2802(5) (“ ‘coastal
waters’ ” includes wetlands “having
unimpaired connection with the open sea up to the head of tidal
influence”). The difference in those two terms is critical to
this case. Two objects are “adjoining” if they
“are so joined or united to each other that no third object
intervenes.” 1968 Black’s 62 (comparing
“adjacent” with “adjoining”); see
ibid. (“Adjoining” means “touching or
contiguous, as distinguished from lying near to or
adjacent”); see also Black’s Law Dictionary 38–39
(5th ed. 1979) (same); Webster’s Third 26–27 (similar).
As applied to wetlands, a marsh is adjacent to a river even if
separated by a levee, just as your neighbor’s house is
adjacent to your house even if separated by a fence or an
alley.

															In other contexts, this Court has recognized the
important difference in the meaning of the terms
“adjacent” and “adjoining” and has held
that “adjacent” is broader than “adjoining or
actually contiguous.” United States v. St. Anthony
R. Co., 192 U.S.
524, 533 (1904). As an example, the St. Anthony case
concerned a federal statute granting railroads the right to cut
timber from “public lands adjacent” to a railroad right
of way. Id., at 526, n. 1, 530. The Court held that
timber could be taken from “adjacent” sections of land
that were not “contiguous to or actually
touching” the right of way. Id., at 538. The Court
explained that if “the word ‘adjoining’ had been
used instead of ‘adjacent,’ ” a railroad
could not have taken the relevant timber. Ibid.

															In short, the term “adjacent” is
broader than “adjoining” and does not require that two
objects actually touch. We must presume that Congress used the term
“adjacent” wetlands in 1977 to convey a different
meaning than “adjoining” wetlands. See Russello
v. United States, 464 U.S.
16, 23 (1983).

															II

															Longstanding agency practice reinforces the
ordinary meaning of adjacency and demonstrates, contrary to the
Court’s conclusion today, that the term
“adjacent” is broader than “adjoining.”

															After the Act was passed in 1972, a key question
quickly arose: Did “waters of the United States”
include wetlands? By 1975, the Army Corps concluded that the term
“waters of the United States” included
“adjacent” wetlands. 40 Fed. Reg. 31324. In 1977,
Congress itself made clear that “adjacent” wetlands
were covered by the Act by amending the Act and enacting
§1344(g). 91Stat. 1601.

															Since 1977, when Congress explicitly included
“adjacent” wetlands within the Act’s coverage,
the Army Corps has adopted a variety of interpretations of its
authority over those wetlands—some more expansive and others
less expansive. But throughout those 45 years and across all eight
Presidential administrations, the Army Corps has always
included in the definition of “adjacent wetlands” not
only wetlands adjoining covered waters but also those wetlands that
are separated from covered waters by a man-made dike or barrier,
natural river berm, beach dune, or the like.

															bullet20In 1977 and 1980, under President
Carter, the Army Corps and EPA defined “adjacent”
wetlands as including wetlands “separated from other waters
of the United States by man-made dikes or barriers, natural river
berms, beach dunes and the like.” 42 Fed. Reg. 37144; see 45
Fed. Reg. 85345.

															bullet20In 1986, under President Reagan, the
Army Corps adopted a new regulatory provision defining
“waters of the United States” and reaffirmed that
“adjacent” wetlands include wetlands “separated
from other waters of the United States by man-made dikes or
barriers, natural river berms, beach dunes and the like.” 51
Fed. Reg. 41210, 41251.

															bullet20From 1986 until 2015, under Presidents
Reagan, George H. W. Bush, Clinton, George W. Bush, and Obama,
the regulations continued to cover wetlands “separated from
other waters of the United States by man-made dikes or barriers,
natural river berms, beach dunes and the like.” See 33 CFR
§328.3(c) (1991); 40 CFR §230.3(b) (1991); 33 CFR
§328.3(c) (1998); 40 CFR §230.3(b) (1998); 33 CFR
§328.3(c) (2005); 40 CFR §230.3(b) (2005); 33 CFR
§328.3(c) (2010); 40 CFR §230.3(b) (2010).

															bullet20In 2015, under President Obama, the
Army Corps and EPA promulgated a new rule, which again specified
that “adjacent” wetlands include wetlands
“separated by constructed dikes or barriers, natural river
berms, beach dunes, and the like.” 80 Fed. Reg. 37105,
37116.

															bullet20In 2019 and 2020, under President
Trump, the Army Corps and EPA repealed the 2015 rule and issued a
new rule. But even following the repeal and new rule, adjacent
wetlands included wetlands that are “physically
separated” from certain covered waters “only by a
natural berm, bank, dune, or similar natural feature” or
“only by an artificial dike, barrier, or similar artificial
structure so long as that structure allows for a direct hydrologic
surface connection . . . in a typical year, such as
through a culvert, flood or tide gate, pump, or similar artificial
feature.” 85 Fed. Reg. 22338, 22340 (2020).

															bullet20In 2023, under President Biden, the Army
Corps and EPA once again issued a new rule that defined
“adjacent” wetlands to include wetlands
“separated from other waters of the United States by man-made
dikes or barriers, natural river berms, beach dunes, and the
like.” 88 Fed. Reg. 3143–3144.

															That longstanding and consistent agency
interpretation reflects and reinforces the ordinary meaning of the
statute. The eight administrations since 1977 have maintained
dramatically different views of how to regulate the environment,
including under the Clean Water Act. Some of those administrations
promulgated very broad interpretations of adjacent wetlands. Others
adopted far narrower interpretations. Yet all of those eight
different administrations have recognized as a matter of law that
the Clean Water Act’s coverage of adjacent wetlands means
more than adjoining wetlands and also includes wetlands separated
from covered waters by man-made dikes or barriers, natural river
berms, beach dunes, or the like. That consistency in interpretation
is strong confirmation of the ordinary meaning of adjacent
wetlands.

															III

															The Act covers “adjacent”
wetlands. And adjacent wetlands is a broader category than
adjoining wetlands. But instead of adhering to the ordinary meaning
of “adjacent” wetlands, to the 45 years of consistent
agency practice, and to this Court’s precedents, the Court
today adopts a test under which a wetland is covered only if the
wetland has a “continuous surface connection” to a
covered water—in other words, if it adjoins a covered water.
Ante, at 22 (internal quotation marks omitted). The Court
says that the wetland and the covered water must be
“indistinguishable” from one another—in other
words, there must be no “clear demarcation” between
wetlands and covered waters. Ante, at 21 (internal quotation
marks omitted).

															The Court’s “continuous surface
connection” test disregards the ordinary meaning of
“adjacent.” The Court’s mistake is
straightforward: The Court essentially reads “adjacent”
to mean “adjoining.” As a result, the Court excludes
wetlands that the text of the Clean Water Act covers—and that
the Act since 1977 has always been interpreted to cover.

															In support of its narrower “continuous
surface connection” interpretation of covered wetlands, the
Court emphasizes that the 1972 Act’s overarching statutory
term is “waters of the United States.” Ante, at
19. And the Court suggests that the term “waters of the
United States” cannot be interpreted to cover “adjacent
wetlands” but only “adjoining wetlands.” See
ante, at 19–22. But in 1977, Congress itself expressly
made clear that the “waters of the United States”
include “adjacent” wetlands. 91Stat. 1601. And Congress
would not have used the word “adjacent” in 1977 if
Congress actually meant “adjoining,” particularly
because Congress used the word “adjoining” in several
other places in the Clean Water Act. 33 U. S. C.
§§1321(b)–(c), 1346(c); see also
§§1254(n)(4), 2802(5).

															To bolster its unorthodox statutory
interpretation, the Court resorts to a formula: “A minus B,
which includes C.” Ante, at 19. That just seems to be
a fancier way of arguing (against all indications of ordinary
meaning) that “adjacent” means “adjoining.”
But again the Court is imposing a restriction nowhere to be found
in the text. In the end, the Court has no good answer for why
Congress used the term “adjacent” instead of
“adjoining” when Congress enacted §1344(g) in
1977.[1]

															Recall again how the 1977 Act came about. In
1975, the Army Corps concluded that the 1972 Act’s coverage
of “waters of the United States” included
“adjacent” wetlands. 40 Fed. Reg. 31324. Then in 1977,
Congress adopted a new permitting program for a category of
“waters of the United States.” Congress allocated to
the Federal Government exclusive authority to issue Clean Water Act
permits for dumping dredged or fill material into certain
“waters of the United States,” “including
wetlands adjacent thereto.” 91Stat. 1601. Through that
statutory text, Congress made clear its understanding that
“waters of the United States” included
“adjacent” wetlands—and indeed, Congress designed
important federal-state permitting authorities around that precise
understanding. Congress’s 1977 amendment did not
“merely” express “an opinion” about the
meaning of the Clean Water Act; rather, it reflected what Congress
understood “its own prior acts to mean.” Bell v.
New Jersey, 461 U.S.
773, 785, n. 12 (1983) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Moreover, Congress’s 1977 decision was no
accident. As this Court has previously recognized, “the scope
of the Corps’ asserted jurisdiction over
wetlands”—including the Corps’ decision to cover
adjacent wetlands—“was specifically brought to
Congress’ attention” in 1977, “and Congress
rejected measures designed to curb the Corps’
jurisdiction.” United States v. Riverside Bayview
Homes, Inc., 474 U.S.
121, 137 (1985). Subsequently, this Court has recognized that
Congress’s 1977 amendment made clear that the Act
“cover[s] wetlands adjacent to navigable waters.”
Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook Cty. v. Army Corps of
Engineers, 531 U.S.
159, 167 (2001); see Riverside Bayview, 474 U. S.,
at 138 (“Congress expressly stated that the term
‘waters’ included adjacent wetlands”).

															Not surprisingly, in the years since 1977, no
one has seriously disputed that the Act covers adjacent wetlands.
And in light of the text of the Act, eight consecutive Presidential
administrations have recognized that the Act covers adjacent
wetlands and that adjacent wetlands include more than simply
adjoining wetlands. The Court’s analysis today therefore
seems stuck in a bit of a time warp—relitigating an issue
that Congress settled in 1977 and that this Court has long treated
as settled: The Act covers adjacent wetlands. By adopting a test
that substitutes “adjoining” for
“adjacent,” the Court today errs.

															The Court also invokes federalism and vagueness
concerns. The Court suggests that ambiguities or vagueness in
federal statutes regulating private property should be construed in
favor of the property owner, particularly given that States have
traditionally regulated private property rights. See ante,
at 23–25; see also Solid Waste Agency of Northern Cook
Cty., 531 U. S., at 173–174. To begin with, the Federal
Government has long regulated the waters of the United States,
including adjacent wetlands.

															In any event, the decisive point here is that
the term “adjacent” in this statute is unambiguously
broader than the term “adjoining.” On that critical
interpretive question, there is no ambiguity. We should not create
ambiguity where none exists. And we may not rewrite
“adjacent” to mean the same thing as
“adjoining,” as the Court does today.

															Finally, contrary to the Court’s
suggestion otherwise, the analysis in this separate opinion centers
on the “operative” text, “waters of the United
States.” Ante, at 27. To recap: The 1972 Act covered
“waters of the United States.” In 1977, when Congress
allocated permitting authority, Congress expressly included
“adjacent” wetlands within the “waters of the
United States.” Since then, the Executive Branch and this
Court have recognized that “waters of the United
States” covers “adjacent” wetlands. Based on the
text of the statute, as well as 45 years of consistent agency
practice and this Court’s precedents, I respectfully disagree
with the Court’s decision to interpret “waters of the
United States” to include only adjoining wetlands and not
adjacent wetlands.

															IV

															The difference between “adjacent”
and “adjoining” in this context is not merely semantic
or academic. The Court’s rewriting of “adjacent”
to mean “adjoining” will matter a great deal in the
real world. In particular, the Court’s new and overly narrow
test may leave long-regulated and long-accepted-to-be-regulable
wetlands suddenly beyond the scope of the agencies’
regulatory authority, with negative consequences for waters of the
United States. For example, the Mississippi River features an
extensive levee system to prevent flooding. Under the Court’s
“continuous surface connection” test, the presence of
those levees (the equivalent of a dike) would seemingly preclude
Clean Water Act coverage of adjacent wetlands on the other side of
the levees, even though the adjacent wetlands are often an
important part of the flood-control project. See Brief for
Respondents 30. Likewise, federal protection of the Chesapeake Bay
might be less effective if fill can be dumped into wetlands that
are adjacent to (but not adjoining) the bay and its covered
tributaries. See id., at 35. Those are just two of many
examples of how the Court’s overly narrow view of the Clean
Water Act will have concrete impact.

															As those examples reveal, there is a good reason
why Congress covered not only adjoining wetlands but also adjacent
wetlands. Because of the movement of water between adjacent
wetlands and other waters, pollutants in wetlands often end up in
adjacent rivers, lakes, and other waters. Natural barriers such as
berms and dunes do not block all water flow and are in fact
evidence of a regular connection between a water and a wetland. 85
Fed. Reg. 22307; 88 Fed. Reg. 3095, 3118. Similarly, artificial
barriers such as dikes and levees typically do not block all water
flow, 85 Fed. Reg. 22312; 88 Fed. Reg. 3076, and those artificial
structures were often built to control the surface water connection
between the wetland and the water. 85 Fed. Reg. 22315; 88 Fed. Reg.
3118. The scientific evidence overwhelmingly demonstrates that
wetlands separated from covered waters by those kinds of berms or
barriers, for example, still play an important role in protecting
neighboring and downstream waters, including by filtering
pollutants, storing water, and providing flood control. See 88 Fed.
Reg. 3118; 33 CFR §320.4(b)(2) (2022); see also United
States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, Inc., 474 U.S.
121, 134 (1985). In short, those adjacent wetlands may affect
downstream water quality and flood control in many of the same ways
that adjoining wetlands can.

															The Court’s erroneous test not only will
create real-world consequences for the waters of the United States,
but also is sufficiently novel and vague (at least as a single
standalone test) that it may create regulatory uncertainty for the
Federal Government, the States, and regulated parties. As the
Federal Government suggests, the continuous surface connection test
raises “a host of thorny questions” and will lead to
“potentially arbitrary results.” Brief for Respondents
29. For example, how difficult does it have to be to discern the
boundary between a water and a wetland for the wetland to be
covered by the Clean Water Act? How does that test apply to the
many kinds of wetlands that typically do not have a surface water
connection to a covered water year-round—for example,
wetlands and waters that are connected for much of the year but not
in the summer when they dry up to some extent? How
“temporary” do “interruptions in surface
connection” have to be for wetlands to still be covered?
Ante, at 21. How does the test operate in areas where
storms, floods, and erosion frequently shift or breach natural
river berms? Can a continuous surface connection be established by
a ditch, swale, pipe, or culvert? See 88 Fed. Reg. 3095. The Court
covers wetlands separated from a water by an artificial barrier
constructed illegally, see ante, at 21–22,
n. 16, but why not also include barriers authorized by the
Army Corps at a time when it would not have known that the barrier
would cut off federal authority? The list goes on.

															Put simply, the Court’s atextual
test—rewriting “adjacent” to mean
“adjoining”—will produce real-world consequences
for the waters of the United States and will generate regulatory
uncertainty. I would stick to the text. There can be no debate, in
my respectful view, that the key statutory term is
“adjacent” and that adjacent wetlands is a broader
category than adjoining wetlands. To be faithful to the statutory
text, we cannot interpret “adjacent” wetlands to be the
same thing as “adjoining” wetlands.

															*  *  *

															In sum, I agree with the Court’s
decision not to adopt the “significant nexus” test for
adjacent wetlands. I respectfully disagree, however, with the
Court’s new “continuous surface connection” test.
In my view, the Court’s new test is overly narrow and
inconsistent with the Act’s coverage of adjacent wetlands.
The Act covers adjacent wetlands, and a wetland is
“adjacent” to a covered water (i) if the wetland is
contiguous to or bordering a covered water, or (ii) if the
wetland is separated from a covered water only by a man-made dike
or barrier, natural river berm, beach dune, or the like. The
wetlands on the Sacketts’ property do not fall into either of
those categories and therefore are not covered under the Act as I
would interpret it. Therefore, like the Court, I would reverse the
judgment of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
and remand for further proceedings. But I respectfully concur only
in the Court’s judgment.

Notes
1
 Perhaps recognizing the
difficulty of reading the Act to mean “adjoining” when
it actually says “adjacent,” the Court at one point
suggests that “adjoining” is equivalent to
“adjacent.” Ante, at 19–20. As a matter of
ordinary meaning, as explained at length above, that is incorrect.
Adjoining wetlands are a subset of adjacent wetlands, not the whole
set of adjacent wetlands.


