::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-454
::decision_name::  Sackett v. Environmental Protection Agency
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–454

															_________________

															MICHAEL SACKETT, et ux., PETITIONERS v.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[May 25, 2023]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Sotomayor and
Justice Jackson join, concurring in the judgment.

															Like Justice Kavanaugh, “I would stick to
the text.” Post, at 14 (opinion concurring in
judgment). As he explains in the principal concurrence, our normal
method of construing statutes identifies which wetlands the Clean
Water Act covers—and the answer provided exceeds what the
Court says today. Because the Act covers “the waters of the
United States,” and those waters “includ[e]” all
wetlands “adjacent” to other covered waters, the Act
extends to those “adjacent” wetlands. 33
U. S. C. §§1362(7), 1344(g)(1). And in ordinary
language, one thing is adjacent to another not only when it is
touching, but also when it is nearby. See post, at 4–5
(quoting multiple dictionaries). So, for example, one house is
adjacent to another even when a stretch of grass and a picket fence
separate the two. As applied here, that means—as the EPA and
Army Corps have recognized for almost half a century—that a
wetland comes within the Act if (i) it is “contiguous to or
bordering a covered water, or (ii) if [it] is separated from
a covered water only by a man-made dike or barrier, natural river
berm, beach dune, or the like.” Post, at 14 (emphasis
in original). In excluding all the wetlands in category (ii), the
majority’s “ ‘continuous surface
connection’ test disregards the ordinary meaning of
‘adjacent.’ ” Post, at 9. The
majority thus alters—more precisely, narrows the scope
of—the statute Congress drafted.

															And make no mistake: Congress wrote the statute
it meant to. The Clean Water Act was a landmark piece of
environmental legislation, designed to address a problem of
“crisis proportions.” R. Adler, J. Landman, & D.
Cameron, The Clean Water Act: 20 Years Later 5 (1993). How bad was
water pollution in 1972, when the Act passed? Just a few years
earlier, Ohio’s Cuyahoga River had “burst into flames,
fueled by oil and other industrial wastes.” Ibid. And
that was merely one of many alarms. Rivers, lakes, and creeks
across the country were unfit for swimming. Drinking water was full
of hazardous chemicals. Fish were dying in record numbers (over 40
million in 1969); and those caught were often too contaminated to
eat (with mercury and DDT far above safe levels). See id.,
at 5–6. So Congress embarked on what this Court once
understood as a “total restructuring and complete
rewriting” of existing water pollution law. Milwaukee
v. Illinois, 451 U.S.
304, 317 (1981) (internal quotation marks omitted). The new Act
established “a self-consciously comprehensive” and
“all- encompassing program of water pollution
regulation.” Id., at 318–319. Or said a bit
differently, the Act created a program broad enough to achieve the
codified objective of “restor[ing] and maintain[ing] the
chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the Nation’s
waters.” §1251(a). If you’ve lately swum in a
lake, happily drunk a glass of water straight from the tap, or sat
down to a good fish dinner, you can appreciate what the law has
accomplished.

															Vital to the Clean Water Act’s project is
the protection of wetlands—both those contiguous to covered
waters and others nearby. As this Court (again, formerly)
recognized, wetlands “serve to filter and purify water
draining into adjacent bodies of water, and to slow the flow of
surface runoff into lakes, rivers, and streams.” United
States v. Riverside Bayview Homes, Inc., 474 U.S.
121, 134 (1985) (citation omitted). Wetlands thus
“function as integral parts of the aquatic
environment”—protecting neighboring water if themselves
healthy, imperiling neighboring water if instead degraded.
Id., at 135. At the same time, wetlands play a crucial part
in flood control (if anything, more needed now than when the
statute was enacted). And wetlands perform those functions, as
Justice Kavanaugh explains, not only when they are touching a
covered water but also when they are separated from it by a natural
or artificial barrier—say, a berm or dune or dike or levee.
See post, at 12–13 (giving examples). Those barriers,
as he says, “do not block all water flow,” and in fact
are usually evidence of a significant connection between the
wetland and the water. Ibid. Small wonder, then, that the
Act—as written, rather than as read today—covers
wetlands with that kind of connection. Congress chose just the word
needed to meet the Act’s objective. A wetland is protected
when it is “adjacent” to a covered water—not
merely when it is “adjoining” or
“contiguous” or “touching,” or (in the
majority’s favorite made-up locution) has a “continuous
surface connection.” See, e.g., ante, at
27.

															Today’s majority, though, believes
Congress went too far. In the majority’s view, the Act
imposes unjustifiably “crushing consequences” for
violations of its terms. Ante, at 3. And many of those
violations, it thinks, are of no real concern, arising from
“mundane” land-use conduct “like moving
dirt.” Ante, at 13. Congress, the majority scolds, has
unleashed the EPA to regulate “swimming pools[ ] and
puddles,” wreaking untold havoc on “a staggering array
of landowners.” Ante, at 1, 13. Surely something has
to be done; and who else to do it but this Court? It must rescue
property owners from Congress’s too-ambitious program of
pollution control.

															So the majority shelves the usual rules of
interpretation—reading the text, determining what the words
used there mean, and applying that ordinary understanding even if
it conflicts with judges’ policy preferences. The
majority’s first pass through the statute is, as Justice
Kavanaugh says, “unorthodox.” Post, at 9.
“A minus B, which includes C”? Ante, at 19. The
majority could use every letter of the alphabet, and graduate to
quadratic equations, and still not solve its essential problem. As
the majority concedes, the statute “tells us that at least
some wetlands must qualify as ‘waters of the United
States.’ ” Ante, at 18–19. More, the
statute tells us what those “some wetlands” are: the
“adjacent” ones. And again, as Justice Kavanaugh shows,
“adjacent” does not mean adjoining. See post, at
4–6; supra, at 1–2. So the majority proceeds to
its back-up plan. It relies as well on a judicially manufactured
clear-statement rule. When Congress (so says the majority)
exercises power “over private
property”—particularly, over “land and water
use”—it must adopt “exceedingly clear
language.” Ante, at 23 (internal quotation marks
omitted). There is, in other words, a thumb on the scale for
property owners—no matter that the Act (i.e., the one
Congress enacted) is all about stopping property owners from
polluting. See supra, at 2.

															Even assuming that thumb’s existence, the
majority still would be wrong. As Justice Kavanaugh notes,
clear-statement rules operate (when they operate) to resolve
problems of ambiguity and vagueness. See post, at 11; see
also Bond v. United States, 572
U.S. 844, 859 (2014); United States v. Bass,
404 U.S.
336, 347 (1971). And no such problems are evident here. One
last time: “Adjacent” means neighboring, whether or not
touching; so, for example, a wetland is adjacent to water on the
other side of a sand dune. That congressional judgment is as clear
as clear can be—which is to say, as clear as language gets.
And so a clear-statement rule must leave it alone. The majority
concludes otherwise because it is using its thumb not to resolve
ambiguity or clarify vagueness, but instead to
“correct” breadth. Those paying attention have seen
this move before—actually, just last Term. In another case of
environmental regulation (involving clean air), the Court invoked
another clear-statement rule (the so-called major questions
doctrine) to diminish another plainly expansive term (“system
of emission reduction”). See West Virginia v.
EPA, 597 U. S. ___, ___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 2,
19). “[C]ontra the majority,” I said then, “a
broad term is not the same thing as a ‘vague’
one.” Id., at ___ (dissenting opinion) (slip op., at
8). And a court must treat the two differently. A court may, on
occasion, apply a clear-statement rule to deal with statutory
vagueness or ambiguity. But a court may not rewrite
Congress’s plain instructions because they go further than
preferred. That is what the majority does today in finding that the
Clean Water Act excludes many wetlands (clearly)
“adjacent” to covered waters.

															And still more fundamentally, why ever have a
thumb on the scale against the Clean Water Act’s protections?
The majority first invokes federalism. See ante, at
23–24. But as Justice Kavanaugh observes, “the Federal
Government has long regulated the waters of the United States,
including adjacent wetlands.” Post, at 11. The
majority next raises the specter of criminal penalties for
“indeterminate” conduct. See ante, at
24–25. But there is no peculiar indeterminacy in
saying—as regulators have said for nearly a half
century—that a wetland is covered both when it touches
a covered water and when it is separated by only a dike,
berm, dune, or similar barrier. (That standard is in fact more
definite than a host of criminal laws I could name.) Today’s
pop-up clear-statement rule is explicable only as a reflexive
response to Congress’s enactment of an ambitious scheme of
environmental regulation. It is an effort to cabin the
anti-pollution actions Congress thought appropriate. See
ante, at 23 (complaining about Congress’s protection
of “vast” and “staggering”
“additional area”). And that, too, recalls last Term,
when I remarked on special canons “magically appearing as
get-out-of-text-free cards” to stop the EPA from taking the
measures Congress told it to. See West Virginia, 597
U. S., at ___–___ (dissenting opinion) (slip op., at
28–29). There, the majority’s non-textualism barred the
EPA from addressing climate change by curbing power plant emissions
in the most effective way. Here, that method prevents the EPA from
keeping our country’s waters clean by regulating adjacent
wetlands. The vice in both instances is the same: the Court’s
appointment of itself as the national decision-maker on
environmental policy.

															So I’ll conclude, sadly, by repeating what
I wrote last year, with the replacement of only a single word.
“[T]he Court substitutes its own ideas about policymaking for
Congress’s. The Court will not allow the Clean [Water] Act to
work as Congress instructed. The Court, rather than Congress, will
decide how much regulation is too much.” Id., at ___
(slip op., at 32). Because that is not how I think our Government
should work—more, because it is not how the Constitution
thinks our Government should work—I respectfully concur in
the judgment only.

													
