::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-030
::decision_cite:: 21-5592
::decision_name::  Ramirez v. Collier
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–5592

															_________________

															John H. Ramirez, PETITIONER v. Bryan Collier, Executive Director, Texas Department of Criminal Justice, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[March 24, 2022]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, concurring.

															The opinion of the Court, which I join in full, explains why clear rules governing the presence of spiritual advisors at executions are necessary to ensure that any disputes are resolved in a timely fashion before a scheduled execution date.  I write separately to underscore the interaction between prison officials’ obligations to set such rules and the exhaustion requirement of the Prison Litigation Reform Act (PLRA).

															Under the PLRA, prison officials and incarcerated individuals share an obligation to act in good faith in resolving disputes: Incarcerated individuals must timely raise their claims through the prison grievance system, and prison officials must ensure that the system is a functioning one.  To that end, the PLRA requires incarcerated individuals to exhaust the prison’s administrative grievance process before turning to the courts only where that process is actually “available.”

42 U. S. C. §1997e(a).  An administrative process is not available if it is not “ ‘capable of use’ to obtain ‘some relief for the action complained of.’ ”  Ross v. Blake,

578 U.S. 632, 642 (2016).  Availability is a practical determination that requires considering both whether the administrative system is accessible as designed and whether prison administrators and officers ensure meaningful access to it in practice.  See id., at 643–644.

															A scheduled execution date may impose unique time constraints on grievance procedures, but it does not alter either party’s responsibilities under the PLRA.  Just as incarcerated individuals still bear the burden of timely raising execution-related claims, prisons still must ensure that administrative remedies are available, which may require modifying procedures to account for the time constraints of a scheduled execution as the Court describes, ante, at 21.  Where an administrative process does not facilitate addressing execution-related claims within the timeframe of a scheduled execution, it is likely not an “available” remedy that must be exhausted under the PLRA.

															To ensure that administrative remedies are available in the execution context, prison officials bear a twofold responsibility.  First, they must ensure that rules clearly and timely inform an individual facing execution of any relevant protocols, so that the individual in turn may timely raise concerns.  Second, the officials must ensure that the administrative process proceeds swiftly enough to permit exhaustion with sufficient time for the individual to seek judicial review, if necessary, prior to a scheduled execution.  Finally, to act in good faith means that neither incarcerated individuals nor prison officials should unnecessarily wait to act until the end of time available to them.  

															Because I agree with the Court that Ramirez exhausted his administrative remedies, it is unnecessary to address whether they qualified as available such that exhaustion was actually a prerequisite to suit.[1]*  It raises questions, however, that the record indicates that the prison failed to provide Ramirez with notice of its restrictions on a spiritual advisor’s actions in the execution room.  Timely notice of policies is essential to ensure the ability to timely raise, or seek informal resolution of, any claims related to those policies.  It also raises questions that the prison took 39 days to deny Ramirez’s Step 2 grievance, even though the prison had considered and rejected his request previously and maintains that its established policies foreclosed it.  Such delay creates an impression, whether valid or not, that the prison is trying to “thwart inmates from taking advantage of [the] grievance process” and cut short their opportunity to obtain judicial review.  Ross, 578 U. S., at 644.

															At its heart, the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act requires commitment on both sides to achieve a timely resolution of disputes, as does the PLRA’s exhaustion requirement.  Consistent with these principles, incarcerated individuals should know that delays in raising their requests can result in denial.  They should not, however, be penalized for delays attributable to prison administrators.
Notes
1
*The dissent both contends that Ramirez did not exhaust administrative remedies and that Ramirez cannot claim that administrative remedies were unavailable to him because he filed grievances and received responses.  Post, at 17–21 (opinion of Thomas, J.).  As the dissent recounts at length, however, many prison grievance systems require additional steps after filing a complaint and receiving a response in order to “exhaust.”  Ramirez received a response to his second grievance in early July, yet his grievance remained pending in the prison’s Step 2 process through August despite his pending September execution date.  If an administrative system does not permit complete exhaustion of execution-related claims in a timely manner before a scheduled execution, it may be unavailable for the purposes of those claims even if it would be available for other types of claims.  See Ross v. Blake,

578 U.S. 632, 642 (2016) (evaluating administrative remedies in terms of their ability to grant relief for “ ‘the action complained of’ ”).   


