::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-030
::decision_cite:: 21-5592
::decision_name::  Ramirez v. Collier
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															
															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal errors, in order that corrections may be made before the preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–5592

															_________________

															John H. Ramirez, PETITIONER v. Bryan Collier, Executive Director, Texas Department of Criminal Justice, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[March 24, 2022]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of the Court.

															A Texas jury sentenced John Ramirez to death for the brutal murder of Pablo Castro.  In this litigation, Ramirez does not challenge his conviction.  Nor does he challenge his sentence.  He asks instead that his long-time pastor be allowed to pray with him and lay hands on him while he is being executed.  He says that the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000 (RLUIPA),

114Stat.
803,

42 U. S. C. §2000cc et seq., requires this accommodation.  Ramirez sought a preliminary injunction ordering Texas to permit his religious exercise if the State went forward with his execution.  The District Court and Court of Appeals declined to grant such relief.  We then stayed the execution and granted certiorari.

															I

															A

															Pablo Castro worked the night shift at the Times Market convenience store in Corpus Christi, Texas.  On July 19, 2004, Castro was outside closing up when Ramirez and an accomplice approached him with a knife.  Ramirez stabbed Castro 29 times, searched his pockets, and made off with $1.25.  Castro died on the pavement, leaving behind 9 children and 14 grandchildren.

															Ramirez fled to Mexico, where he evaded authorities for more than three years.  In 2008, he was finally apprehended near the Mexican border.  Texas charged Ramirez with murdering Castro in the course of committing or attempting to commit robbery—a capital offense.  See Tex. Penal Code Ann. §19.03(a)(2) (West 2019).  Ramirez admitted to killing Castro, but denied the robbery that made the murder a capital crime.  A jury disagreed, found Ramirez guilty, and sentenced him to death.  The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed Ramirez’s conviction and sentence on direct appeal.  See Ramirez v. State, No. AP–76100 (Mar. 16, 2011).  Ramirez’s attempts to collaterally attack his conviction in state and federal court also proved unsuccessful.  See Ramirez v. Davis, 780 Fed. Appx. 110, 112–114 (CA5 2019) (discussing Ramirez’s past habeas filings), cert. denied, 589 U. S. ___ (2020).

															B

															Texas scheduled Ramirez’s execution for February 2, 2017.  Less than a week before that date, Ramirez moved to stay the execution, arguing that his habeas counsel had rendered constitutionally ineffective assistance.  The District Court granted a stay, but later rejected Ramirez’s claim.  The Fifth Circuit then declined to issue a certificate of appealability.  See Ramirez, 780 Fed. Appx. 110.  Still, this last-minute litigation had the effect of delaying Ramirez’s execution for several years.

															Texas rescheduled Ramirez’s execution for September 9, 2020.  Ramirez then asked to have his pastor accompany him into the execution chamber.  Prison officials denied the request.  They did so because, at the time, Texas’s execution protocol barred all spiritual advisors from entering the chamber.  App. 60.  A prior version of the protocol had allowed access for prison chaplains.  Ibid.  But Texas employed only Christian and Muslim chaplains.  In 2019, when a Buddhist inmate sought to have his spiritual advisor join him in the execution chamber, Texas declined to grant the accommodation.  We stayed that execution pending certiorari, unless the State allowed a Buddhist spiritual advisor into the execution chamber.  Murphy v. Collier, 587 U. S. ___ (2019).  In response, Texas amended its execution protocol to bar all chaplains from entering the execution chamber, so as not to discriminate among religions.  See Brief for Respondents 4–5; App. 111.

															Ramirez filed suit, arguing that Texas’s new execution protocol violated his rights under the
 
First Amendment and RLUIPA.  Ramirez’s complaint said that he was a Christian and had received religious guidance from Pastor Dana Moore since 2016.  Id., at 61.  Pastor Moore serves the Second Baptist Church in Corpus Christi, of which Ramirez is a member.  Ramirez explained that he wanted his pastor “to be present at the time of his execution to pray with him and provide spiritual comfort and guidance in his final moments.”  Ibid.  Ramirez’s complaint focused on prayer and explained that his pastor “need not touch [him] at any time in the execution chamber.”  Ibid.

															Texas withdrew Ramirez’s death warrant before there were any further filings.  As a result, the parties jointly agreed to dismiss the litigation without prejudice.

															C

															On February 5, 2021, Texas informed Ramirez that his new execution date would be September 8, 2021.  Ramirez then filed a Step 1 prison grievance requesting that he “be allowed to have [his] spiritual advisor present in the death chamber.”  Id., at 50–51.  Texas again denied the request, but later changed course, amending its execution protocol to permit a prisoner’s spiritual advisor to be present in the execution chamber.  See id., at 133–152.

															Our decisions in Gutierrez v. Saenz, 590 U. S. ___ (2020), and Dunn v. Smith, 592 U. S. ___ (2021), seem to have precipitated the change.  Both cases concerned prisoner requests to have a spiritual advisor present in the execution chamber.  And in both cases, we declined to allow the executions to proceed unless the inmate was granted that accommodation.  Justice Kavanaugh, dissenting in Dunn, explained that States wishing to avoid such stays “should figure out a way to allow spiritual advisors into the execution room, as other States and the Federal Government have done.”  Id., at ___ (slip op., at 1).

															Texas’s 2021 Execution Protocol did just that.  It allows a prisoner’s spiritual advisor to enter the execution chamber, accompanied by a prison security escort.  This accommodation is subject to various procedural requirements.  See App. 133–137.  For instance, the prisoner must notify the warden of his choice of spiritual advisor within 30 days of learning his execution date.  Id., at 134.  Additionally, the spiritual advisor must pass a background check and undergo training.  Id., at 136.  And if the spiritual advisor is “disruptive,” he is subject to “immediate removal.”  Id., at 149.  The protocol says nothing about whether a spiritual advisor may pray aloud or touch an inmate for comfort.  But Texas had long allowed its own prison chaplains to engage in such activities during executions, and it was against this backdrop that Texas enacted the new policy.  See Brief for Petitioner 29–33; Brief for Former Prison Officials as Amici Curiae 2–11.

															D

															On June 11, 2021, Ramirez filed the grievance that is at the center of this case.  Having successfully petitioned the State to allow his pastor into the execution chamber, he requested that his pastor be permitted to “lay hands” on him and “pray over” him while the execution was taking place.  App. 52–53.  Ramirez’s grievance explains that it is “part of my faith to have my spiritual advisor lay hands on me anytime I am sick or dying.”  Id., at 52.  Texas denied the grievance on July 2, 2021.  It said that spiritual advisors are “not allowed to touch an inmate while inside the execution chamber,” though it did not point to any provision of its execution protocol requiring this result.  Id., at 53.

															Ramirez appealed within the prison system by filing a Step 2 grievance on July 8, 2021.  Id., at 155–156.  But with less than a month to go until his September 8 execution date, prison officials had still not ruled on that appeal.  So on August 10 he filed suit in Federal District Court.  Ramirez alleged that the refusal of prison officials to allow Pastor Moore to lay hands on him in the execution chamber violated his rights under RLUIPA and the
 
First Amendment.  Ramirez sought preliminary and permanent injunctive relief barring state officials from executing him unless they granted the religious accommodation.

															On August 16, 2021, Ramirez’s attorney inquired whether Pastor Moore would be allowed to pray audibly with Ramirez during the execution.  Prison officials responded three days later that the pastor would not.  Id., at 85–86.  So on August 22 Ramirez filed an amended complaint seeking an injunction that would allow Pastor Moore to lay hands on him and pray with him during the execution.  Id., at 95–102.

															Ramirez also sought a stay of execution while the District Court considered his claims.  The District Court denied the request, as did the Fifth Circuit.  See 10 F. 4th 561 (CA5 2021) (per curiam).  Judge Dennis dissented.  In his view, Ramirez’s RLUIPA claims were likely to succeed because the prison’s policies burdened religious exercise and were not the least restrictive means of furthering the State’s compelling interest in the security of the execution.  Id., at 566–568.

															We then stayed Ramirez’s execution, granted certiorari, and heard argument on an expedited basis.  See 594 U. S. ___ (2021).  Ramirez’s certiorari petition asked us to determine whether Texas’s restrictions on religious touch and audible prayer violate either RLUIPA or the Free Exercise Clause.  Ramirez’s merits brief addresses only RLUIPA, however, so we do not consider any standalone argument under the Free Exercise Clause.

															We are also mindful that, while we have had full briefing and oral argument in this Court, the case comes to us in a preliminary posture: The question is whether Ramirez’s execution without the requested participation of his pastor should be halted, pending full consideration of his claims on a complete record.  The parties agree that the relief sought is properly characterized as a preliminary injunction.  Under such circumstances, the party seeking relief “must establish that he is likely to succeed on the merits, that he is likely to suffer irreparable harm in the absence of preliminary relief, that the balance of equities tips in his favor, and that an injunction is in the public interest.”  Winter v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,

555 U.S. 7, 20 (2008).

															II

															The prison officials begin by arguing that Ramirez cannot hope to succeed on his claims, because he failed to exhaust all available remedies before filing suit.  Such exhaustion is mandatory under the Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PLRA),

42 U. S. C. §1997e(a), even in the execution context.  See Woodford v. Ngo,

548 U.S. 81, 85 (2006); Porter v. Nussle,

534 U.S. 516, 520 (2002).  The Act requires compliance with “deadlines and other critical procedural rules,” Woodford, 548 U. S., at 90–91, with no exceptions for “special circumstances,” Ross v. Blake,

578 U.S. 632, 635 (2016).  Thus, if Ramirez failed to exhaust all available administrative remedies, his suit may not proceed.  Respondents argue that is the case here.  We disagree.

															The Texas prison grievance process is straightforward.  See Texas Dept. of Criminal Justice, Offender Orientation Handbook 73–75 (Feb. 2017) (Prison Handbook).  Prior to filing a grievance, an inmate must try to resolve the issue informally.  If that does not work, the prisoner must file a Step 1 grievance within 15 days of the “alleged incident or occurrence.”  Id., at 74.  When filing a grievance, an inmate must “clearly state[ ]” “[t]he specific action required to resolve the complaint.”  Id., at 75.  Prison officials then have 40 days to decide the grievance.  If the prisoner remains dissatisfied, he may appeal by filing a Step 2 grievance within 15 days.  Prison officials have another 40 days to issue a decision on the appeal.  Id., at 74.  Only after exhausting both steps of that grievance process may a prisoner file suit.  See

42 U. S. C. §1997e(a).

															We are persuaded—at least in the current posture of the case—that Ramirez properly exhausted these administrative remedies.  The record indicates that Ramirez tried to resolve the issue informally with a prison chaplain.  App. 52.[1]  When that did not work, he filed a Step 1 grievance requesting that his pastor be allowed to “ ‘lay hands on me’ & pray over me while I am being executed.”  Id., at 52–53.  Prison officials denied that grievance, and Ramirez timely appealed.  Id., at 53, 155–156.  His Step 2 grievance reiterated, “I wish to have my Spiritual Advisor ‘lay hands on me’ to pray over me during my upcoming execution.”  Id., at 155.  Ramirez’s grievances thus “clearly stated” that he wished to have his pastor touch him and pray with him during his execution.  Prison Handbook 75.  In the context of Texas’s grievance system, that is enough.

															Respondents briefly argue that Ramirez failed to exhaust Texas’s grievance process because he filed suit before prison officials ruled on his Step 2 grievance.  See Brief for Respondents 28.  It is true that prison officials did not decide that grievance until six days after Ramirez sued.  Compare App. 1 with id., at 155–156.  But Ramirez filed an amended complaint that same day, and he also filed a second amended complaint after that.  Id., at 2–3.  The original defect was arguably cured by those subsequent filings.  See Rhodes v. Robinson, 621 F.3d 1002, 1005 (CA9 2010) (“As a general rule, when a plaintiff files an amended complaint, the amended complaint supercedes the original, the latter being treated thereafter as non-existent.” (internal quotation marks and brackets omitted)) (PLRA case).  In any event, we need not definitively resolve the issue as respondents failed to raise it below.  See Cutter v. Wilkinson,

544 U.S. 709, 718, n. 7 (2005) (“we are a court of review, not of first view”).

															Respondents also argue that Ramirez failed to properly exhaust his request for audible prayer in the execution chamber.  The gist of their argument is that while his grievances clearly requested prayer, they did not clearly request audible prayer.  See Brief for Respondents 25–30.  We disagree.  Ramirez asked that prison officials permit his pastor to “lay hands” on him and “pray over” him during the execution.  App. 53.  While it is true that this language did not explicitly reference “audible” prayer, the language adequately conveyed such a request for several reasons.  First, if Ramirez had merely wanted silent prayer, his grievance need not have mentioned prayer at all.  He and his pastor could have prayed silently and no one would have been the wiser.  Second, praying aloud is a common type of Christian prayer that people engage in together.  See Brief for Petitioner 21–22.  Even respondents concede that such prayer is “not uncommon.”  Brief for Respondents 30.  Finally, Texas’s historic practice of allowing prison chaplains to pray audibly with inmates inside the execution chamber further suggests that Ramirez intended to invoke this practice.  See Brief for Petitioner 32–33.  A request for audible prayer is thus the most natural understanding of Ramirez’s grievances.

															Nor are we persuaded by respondents’ argument that Ramirez should have filed his grievance sooner.  In Texas, prisoners must raise a grievance within “15 days from the date of the alleged incident or occurrence.”  Prison Handbook 74.  Respondents contend that Ramirez should have filed his grievance within 15 days of when Texas issued its revised execution protocol (April 21, 2021), or within 15 days of when he learned that his pastor would be allowed inside the chamber (May 4, 2021).  See Brief for Respondents 26–27.  Both suggestions are untenable.  Neither the revised execution protocol nor the State’s decision to admit Pastor Moore put Ramirez on notice that religious touch and audible prayer would be banned inside the execution chamber.  To the contrary, Texas had long permitted such activities.  See Brief for Petitioner 29–33; Brief for Former Prison Officials as Amici Curiae 6–11.  Ramirez says—and respondents do not dispute—that he first learned of the prohibition on religious touch on June 8, 2021.  Reply Brief 4.  Ramirez filed the grievance that sparked this litigation just three days later, on June 11.  App. 53.  We thus have little trouble concluding that the grievance was timely, and that we may proceed to the merits.

															III

															Congress enacted RLUIPA, and its sister statute the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993,

107Stat.
1488,

42 U. S. C. §2000bb et seq., in the aftermath of our decisions in Employment Division, Department of Human Resources of Oregon v. Smith,

494 U.S. 872 (1990), and City of Boerne v. Flores,

521 U.S. 507 (1997).  See Holt v. Hobbs,

574 U.S. 352, 356–358 (2015) (discussing this history).  Both statutes aim to ensure “greater protection for religious exercise than is available under the
 
First Amendment.”  Id., at 357.

															RLUIPA provides that “[n]o government shall impose a substantial burden on the religious exercise of a person residing in or confined to an institution”—including state prisoners—“even if the burden results from a rule of general applicability, unless the government demonstrates that imposition of the burden on that person—(1) is in furtherance of a compelling governmental interest; and (2) is the least restrictive means of furthering that compelling governmental interest.”

42 U. S. C. §2000cc–1(a).  A plaintiff bears the initial burden of proving that a prison policy “implicates his religious exercise.”  Holt, 574 U. S., at 360.  Although RLUIPA protects “any exercise of religion, whether or not compelled by, or central to, a system of religious belief,” §2000cc–5(7)(A), a prisoner’s requested accommodation “must be sincerely based on a religious belief and not some other motivation,” id., at 360–361.  The burden on the prisoner’s religious exercise must also be “substantial[ ].”  Id., at 361.  Once a plaintiff makes such a showing, the burden flips and the government must “demonstrate[ ] that imposition of the burden on that person” is the least restrictive means of furthering a compelling governmental interest.  §2000cc–1(a); see also id., at 362.  This allocation of respective burdens applies in the preliminary injunction context.  Gonzales v. O Centro Espírita Beneficente União do Vegetal,

546 U.S. 418, 429–430 (2006).

															A

															To begin, we think Ramirez is likely to succeed in proving that his religious requests are “sincerely based on a religious belief.”  Holt, 574 U. S., at 360–361.  Ramirez seeks to have his pastor lay hands on him and pray over him during the execution.  Both are traditional forms of religious exercise.  See Brief for Becket Fund for Religious Liberty as Amicus Curiae 3–19.  As Ramirez’s grievance states, “it is part of my faith to have my spiritual advisor lay hands on me anytime I am sick or dying.”  App. 52.  Pastor Moore, who has ministered to Ramirez for four years, agrees that prayer accompanied by touch is “a significant part of our faith tradition as Baptists.”  Id., at 47.  And neither the District Court nor the Court of Appeals doubted that Ramirez had a sincere religious basis for his requested accommodations.

															Respondents’ argument to the contrary turns in large part on a complaint Ramirez filed in 2020.  See Brief for Respondents 35–37.  Ramirez filed the complaint while Texas’s prior execution protocol, which banned all spiritual advisors from the execution chamber, was in place.  See App. 56–70, 111.  The complaint sought Pastor Moore’s presence and prayer in the chamber, but disclaimed any need for touch.  Id., at 61 (“When Plaintiff Ramirez is executed, Pastor Moore will pray with him.  Pastor Moore need not touch Mr. Ramirez at any time in the execution chamber.”).  As respondents see things, this shows that Ramirez’s current request for touch is insincere.

															Ramirez responds that the 2020 complaint was inaccurate, and that he would have amended it had the litigation continued.  Brief for Petitioner 11, n. 3; Reply Brief 7, n. 5.  The litigation, however, did not proceed, because the parties jointly agreed to dismiss the suit without prejudice less than a week after it was filed.  See Notice of Nonsuit Without Prejudice in No. 2:20–cv–205 (SD Tex. 2020).  Ramirez’s specific statement in his prior complaint is certainly probative on the issue of sincerity; evolving litigation positions may suggest a prisoner’s goal is delay rather than sincere religious exercise.  See Rhines v. Weber,

544 U.S. 269, 278 (2005).  Under the facts of this case, however, we do not think the prior complaint—dismissed without prejudice and by agreement one week after it was filed—outweighs the ample evidence that Ramirez’s beliefs are sincere.  Respondents do not dispute that any burden their policy imposes on Ramirez’s religious exercise is substantial.  See Holt, 574 U. S., at 361.

															B

															Because Ramirez is likely to succeed in showing that Texas’s policy substantially burdens his exercise of religion, respondents must prove that their refusal to accommodate the exercise both (1) furthers “a compelling governmental interest,” and (2) is the “least restrictive means of furthering that compelling governmental interest.”

42 U. S. C. §2000cc–1(a).  Under RLUIPA, the government cannot discharge this burden by pointing to “broadly formulated interests.”  Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc.,

573 U.S. 682, 726 (2014).  It must instead “demonstrate that the compelling interest test is satisfied through application of the challenged law [to] the particular claimant whose sincere exercise of religion is being substantially burdened.”  Holt, 574 U. S., at 363.

															Here, the government has not shown that it is likely to carry that burden.

															1

															As for audible prayer, there is a rich history of clerical prayer at the time of a prisoner’s execution, dating back well before the founding of our Nation.  See Brief for Becket Fund for Religious Liberty as Amicus Curiae 3–15.  For example, at Newgate Prison—one of London’s most notorious jails—an Anglican priest would stand and pray with the condemned in their final moments.  A. McKenzie, Tyburn’s Martyrs 9–14 (2007).  By the early 1700s, that practice had evolved to permit prisoners to be “attended by a minister, or even a priest, of their own communion.”  Id., at 176; see also id., at 176–182.  Prayer at the time of execution was also commonplace in the American Colonies.  See, e.g., W. Smith, New London Gazette, Sept. 11, 1772, reprinted in W. DeLoss Love, Samsom Occom and the Christian Indians of New England 173–174 (1899) (“The Rev. Mr. Occom . . . attended the Criminal to the Place of Execution, where he made a short but well adapted Prayer to the Occasion.”); see also W. Smith, The Convict’s Visitor 85 (1791) (containing model prayers for clergy attending to the condemned, including at the “[g]iving [of] the signal”).  And during the Revolutionary War, General George Washington ordered that “prisoners under sentence of death” “be attended with such Chaplains, as they choose”—including at the time of their execution.  G. Washington, General Orders (June 9, 1777); see also ibid. (May 1, 1780).  These chaplains often spoke and prayed with the condemned during their final moments.  See Pennsylvania Evening Post, June 6, 1780, vol. 4, p. 62, col. 2 (“Upon the arrival of the criminals at the place of execution, the attending chaplain . . . prayed and recommended them severally to God.”).

															A tradition of such prayer continued throughout our Nation’s history.  See S. Banner, The Death Penalty 35–36 (2002).  When, for example, the Federal Government executed four members of the conspiracy that led to the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln, the prisoners were accompanied by clergy of various denominations.  See End of the Assassins, N. Y. Times, July 8, 1865, p. 1, col. 1.  These “spiritual advisers” ministered to the condemned, and three spoke public prayers shortly before the prisoners were hanged.  Id., at col. 5–6.  And in the aftermath of World War II, the United States Army even permitted Nazi war criminals facing execution to be accompanied by a chaplain, who “spoke” prayers on the gallows in the moments before death.  See H. Gerecke, I Walked to the Gallows With the Nazi Chiefs, Saturday Evening Post, Sept. 1, 1951, p. 58.

															The practice continues today.  In 2020 and 2021, the Federal Bureau of Prisons allowed religious advisors to speak or pray audibly with inmates during at least six federal executions.  See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 24–25.  What’s more, Texas itself appears to have long allowed prison chaplains to pray with inmates in the execution chamber, deciding to prohibit such prayer only in the last several years.  Id., at 2–3.

															Despite this long history, prison officials now insist that a categorical ban on audible prayer in the execution chamber is the least restrictive means of furthering two compelling governmental interests.

															First, prison officials say that absolute silence is necessary in the execution chamber so they can monitor the inmate’s condition through a microphone suspended overhead.  They say that audible prayer might impede their ability to hear subtle signs of trouble or prove distracting during an emergency.  See Brief for Respondents 46.  We do not doubt that prison officials have a compelling interest in monitoring an execution and responding effectively during any potential emergency.  And we recognize that audible prayer could present a more serious risk of interference during the delicate process of lethal injection than during the method of execution (hanging) that was used in most of the historical examples we have cited.  But respondents fail to show that a categorical ban on all audible prayer is the least restrictive means of furthering their compelling interests.

															Indeed, respondents offer only a conclusory defense of the policy’s tailoring.  They acknowledge that both the Federal Government and Alabama have recently permitted audible prayer or speech in the execution chamber, but then assert that, “under the circumstances in Texas’s chamber, allowing speech during the execution is not feasible.”  Id., at 47.  Respondents do not explain why.  Nor do they explore any relevant differences between Texas’s execution chamber or process and those of other jurisdictions.  Instead, they ask that we simply defer to their determination.  That is not enough under RLUIPA.  Nor is there a basis for deference, given that Texas has “historically and routinely allowed prison chaplains to audibly pray” with the condemned during executions, a fact Texas does not dispute.  Brief for Petitioner 29; see also id., at 32–33.

															Second, prison officials say that if they allow spiritual advisors to pray aloud during executions, the opportunity “could be exploited to make a statement to the witnesses or officials, rather than the inmate.”  Brief for Respondents 46.  They note that such statements might cause further trauma to the victim’s family or otherwise interfere with the execution.  Ibid.  We agree that the government has a compelling interest in preventing disruptions of any sort and maintaining solemnity and decorum in the execution chamber.  But there is no indication in the record that Pastor Moore would cause the sorts of disruptions that respondents fear.  Respondents’ argument thus comes down to conjecture regarding what a hypothetical spiritual advisor might do in some future case.  “Such speculation is insufficient to satisfy” respondents’ burden, see Fulton v. Philadelphia, 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 14), and fails to engage in the sort of case-by-case analysis that RLUIPA requires, see Holt, 574 U. S., at 363.

															What’s more, there appear to be less restrictive ways to handle any concerns.  Prison officials could impose reasonable restrictions on audible prayer in the execution chamber—such as limiting the volume of any prayer so that medical officials can monitor an inmate’s condition, requiring silence during critical points in the execution process (including when an execution warrant is read or officials must communicate with one another), allowing a spiritual advisor to speak only with the inmate, and subjecting advisors to immediate removal for failure to comply with any rule.  Prison officials could also require spiritual advisors to sign penalty-backed pledges agreeing to abide by all such limitations.

															Given the current record, respondents have not shown that a total ban on audible prayer is the least restrictive means of furthering their asserted interests.

															2

															Respondents’ categorical ban on religious touch in the execution chamber fares no better.  They point to three governmental interests they say are compelling: security in the execution chamber, preventing unnecessary suffering, and avoiding further emotional trauma to the victim’s family members.  All three goals are commendable.  But again, respondents fail to show that a categorical ban on touch is the least restrictive means of accomplishing any of them.

															Respondents say that allowing a spiritual advisor to touch an inmate would place the advisor in harm’s way because the inmate might escape his restraints, smuggle in a weapon, or become violent.  Brief for Respondents 37–38.  They also contend that if a spiritual advisor were close enough to touch an inmate, he might tamper with the prisoner’s restraints or yank out an IV line.  Id., at 38–39.  We agree that prisons have compelling interests in both protecting those attending an execution and preventing them from interfering with it (though if an inmate smuggling a weapon into the execution chamber is a serious prospect, the prison has broader issues than those considered here).  Even so, Texas’s categorical ban on religious touch is not the least restrictive means of furthering such interests.

															Under Texas’s current protocol, spiritual advisors stand just three feet from the gurney in the execution chamber.  Id., at 38.  A security escort is posted nearby, ready to intervene if anything goes awry.  Ibid.  We do not see how letting the spiritual advisor stand slightly closer, reach out his arm, and touch a part of the prisoner’s body well away from the site of any IV line would meaningfully increase risk.  And that is all Ramirez requests here.  See Tr. of Oral Arg. 9–10 (Ramirez’s counsel stating, “Pastor Moore can touch Mr. Ramirez’s foot, an extremity on the complete far end of the body from the point at which the IV line will be inserted into his arm. . . . [T]hat would satisfy the religious exercise.”).

															Respondents next argue that allowing the pastor to touch Ramirez in the execution chamber might lead to preventable suffering.  The theory is that Pastor Moore might accidentally jostle, pinch, or otherwise interfere with an IV line, and that this in turn might affect the administration of the execution drugs in a way that results in greater pain or suffering.  See Brief for Respondents 38–39.  We think that preventing accidental interference with the prison’s IV lines is a compelling governmental interest.  But we also think it is one reasonably addressed by means short of banning all touch in the execution chamber.

															For example, Texas could allow touch on a part of the body away from IV lines, such as a prisoner’s lower leg.  That seems to have been the practice of many prison chaplains during past Texas executions.  Brief for Petitioner 29–33.  Additionally, Texas could require Ramirez’s pastor to stand in a location that gives the medical team an unobstructed view of the IV lines, allowing them to watch for problems and quickly respond.  Texas could also restrict the time period during which touching is permitted to minimize risk during critical points in the execution process, such as the insertion of the IV line.  Finally, Texas could require that the pastor undergo training so that he understands the importance of staying away from IV lines and taking whatever other precautions are necessary to avoid problems in the chamber.

															Texas does nothing to rebut these obvious alternatives, instead suggesting that it is Ramirez’s burden to “identify any less restrictive means.”  Brief for Respondents 41.  That gets things backward.  Once a plaintiff has made out his initial case under RLUIPA, it is the government that must show its policy “is the least restrictive means of furthering [a] compelling governmental interest.”

42 U. S. C. §2000cc–1(a)(2).

															Finally, respondents say that allowing certain forms of religious touch might further traumatize a victim’s family members who are present as witnesses, reminding them that their loved one received no such solace.  Brief for Respondents 39–40.  As we have already noted, maintaining solemnity and decorum in the execution chamber is a compelling governmental interest.  But here what is at issue is allowing Pastor Moore to respectfully touch Ramirez’s foot or lower leg inside the execution chamber.  Respondents do not contend that this particular act will result in trauma.  See ibid.  Instead, their real concern seems to be with other, potentially more problematic requests down the line.  RLUIPA, however, requires that courts take cases one at a time, considering only “the particular claimant whose sincere exercise of religion is being substantially burdened.”  Holt, 574 U. S., at 363.  As a result, respondents’ final argument is unavailing.

															We conclude that Ramirez is likely to prevail on his claim that Texas’s categorical ban on religious touch in the execution chamber is inconsistent with his rights under RLUIPA.

															IV

															A

															Our conclusion that Ramirez is likely to prevail on the merits of his RLUIPA claims does not end the matter.  As noted earlier, he must also show “that he is likely to suffer irreparable harm in the absence of preliminary relief, that the balance of equities tips in his favor, and that an injunction is in the public interest.”  Winter, 555 U. S., at 20.

															We think these factors also favor an injunction.  Ramirez is likely to suffer irreparable harm in the absence of injunctive relief because he will be unable to engage in protected religious exercise in the final moments of his life.  Compensation paid to his estate would not remedy this harm, which is spiritual rather than pecuniary.

															Additionally, the balance of equities and public interest tilt in Ramirez’s favor.  Ramirez “does not seek an open-ended stay of execution.”  Brief for Petitioner 44.  Rather, he requests a tailored injunction requiring that Texas permit audible prayer and religious touch during his execution.  By passing RLUIPA, Congress determined that prisoners like Ramirez have a strong interest in avoiding substantial burdens on their religious exercise, even while confined.  At the same time, “[b]oth the State and the victims of crime have an important interest in the timely enforcement of a sentence.”  Hill v. McDonough,

547 U.S. 573, 584 (2006).  Given these respective interests, a tailored injunction of the sort Ramirez seeks—rather than a stay of execution—will be the proper form of equitable relief when a prisoner raises a RLUIPA claim in the execution context.  Cf.

18 U. S. C. §3626(a)(2) (“Preliminary injunctive relief [in a prison conditions suit] must be narrowly drawn, extend no further than necessary to correct the harm the court finds requires preliminary relief, and be the least intrusive means necessary to correct that harm.”).  Because it is possible to accommodate Ramirez’s sincere religious beliefs without delaying or impeding his execution, we conclude that the balance of equities and the public interest favor his requested relief.

															B

															Respondents argue that Ramirez has engaged in inequitable conduct.  As they see it, this should bar the equitable relief that Ramirez seeks.

															We agree that a party’s inequitable conduct can make equitable relief inappropriate.  When a party seeking equitable relief “has violated conscience, or good faith, or other equitable principle, in his prior conduct, then the doors of the court will be shut against him.”  Keystone Driller Co. v. General Excavator Co.,

290 U.S. 240, 245 (1933) (quoting J. Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudence §397 (4th ed. 1918)).  These well-worn principles of equity apply in capital cases just as in all others.  Thus, late-breaking changes in position, last-minute claims arising from long-known facts, and other “attempt[s] at manipulation” can provide a sound basis for denying equitable relief in capital cases.  Gomez v. United States Dist. Court for Northern Dist. of Cal.,

503 U.S. 653, 654 (1992) (per curiam); see also Hill, 547 U. S., at 584 (“A court considering a stay must also apply a strong equitable presumption against the grant of a stay where a claim could have been brought at such a time as to allow consideration of the merits without requiring entry of a stay.” (internal quotation marks omitted)).

															Here, however, the record does not support the conclusion that Ramirez engaged in such misconduct.  Respondents argue that Ramirez inequitably delayed this litigation by filing suit just four weeks before his scheduled execution.  But this is not a case in which a litigant “slept upon his rights.”  Gildersleeve v. New Mexico Mining Co.,

161 U.S. 573, 578 (1896) (quoting Speidel v. Henrici,

120 U.S. 377, 387 (1887)).  To the contrary, Ramirez had sought to vindicate his rights for months.  He first learned that prison officials would not allow his pastor to lay hands on him in the execution chamber on June 8, 2021.  See Part II, supra.  That was a break from Texas’s longstanding practice.  Ramirez filed a Step 1 grievance requesting both prayer and religious touch just three days later.  App. 52–53.  When that grievance was rejected, he quickly filed a Step 2 grievance.  Id., at 155–156.  Yet respondents failed to issue a final decision until August 16, 2021—39 days after Ramirez had filed his Step 2 grievance, and just a few weeks before the scheduled execution.  To be sure, prison officials issued their decision within the 40 days allowed by Texas’s grievance policy.  See Prison Handbook 74.  But respondents can hardly complain about the inequities of delay when their own actions were a significant contributing factor.

															C

															As we have explained, the resolution of RLUIPA claims in the prisoner context requires a case-specific consideration of the particular circumstances and claims.  At the same time, timely resolution of such claims could be facilitated if States were to adopt policies anticipating and addressing issues likely to arise.  Doing so would assist both prison officials responsible for carrying out executions and prisoners preparing to confront the end of life according to their religious beliefs.

															The first step would be to specify reasonable rules on the time for prisoners to request religious accommodations, and for prison officials to respond.  Cf. Woodford, 548 U. S., at 87–96.  States could also adopt streamlined procedures for claims involving requests like those at issue in this case, so that these potentially complicated matters can be litigated at all levels well in advance of any scheduled execution.  If spiritual advisors are to be admitted into the execution chamber, it would also seem reasonable to require some training on procedures, including any restrictions on their movements or conduct.  When a spiritual advisor would enter and must leave could be spelled out.  If the advisor is to touch the prisoner, the State might also specify where and for how long.  And, as noted, if audible prayer is to occur, a variety of considerations might be set forth in advance to avoid disruption.  See supra, at 15.  It may also be reasonable to document the advisor’s advance agreement to comply with any restrictions.

															If States adopt clear rules in advance, it should be the rare case that requires last-minute resort to the federal courts.  If such cases do arise and a court determines that relief is appropriate under RLUIPA, the proper remedy is an injunction ordering the accommodation, not a stay of the execution.  This approach balances the State’s interest in carrying out capital sentences without delay and the prisoner’s interest in religious exercise.

															One final point bears mentioning.  Our holding today arises in the context of a preliminary injunction.  And our analysis turns on Texas’s specific execution protocol, chamber, and historical practices.  Further proceedings on remand, if necessary, might shed additional light on Texas’s interests, and on whether its policies are narrowly tailored.  But such proceedings might also contribute to further delay in carrying out the sentence.  The State will have to determine where its interest lies in going forward.

															*  *  *

															We hold that Ramirez is likely to prevail on the merits of his RLUIPA claims, and that the other preliminary injunction factors justify relief.  If Texas reschedules Ramirez’s execution and declines to permit audible prayer or religious touch, the District Court should therefore enter appropriate preliminary relief.  The judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

															It is so ordered.
Notes
1
The dissent argues that Ramirez’s effort at informal resolution was either insufficient or insufficiently documented.  Post, at 18–19 (opinion of Thomas, J.).  Ramirez specified on the grievance form the date he raised the issue with the prison chaplain and attempted to resolve it.  In a one-sentence description of the chaplain’s response, Ramirez mentioned only the touching claim.  Texas does not argue that this constituted failure to exhaust, and therefore forfeited any such argument. 


