::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-030
::decision_cite:: 21-5592
::decision_name::  Ramirez v. Collier
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Kavanaugh
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–5592

															_________________

															John H. Ramirez, PETITIONER v. Bryan Collier, Executive Director, Texas Department of Criminal Justice, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[March 24, 2022]

															

															Justice Kavanaugh, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full, and I write separately to add three points: one about the recent history of litigation involving religious advisors in execution rooms; a second about the difficulty of applying RLUIPA’s compelling interest and least restrictive means standards; and a third about state execution procedures going forward.

															First, the recent history.  The question of religious advisors in the execution room came to this Court three years ago as a question of religious equality.  Some States had long permitted state-employed chaplains in the execution room.  But those state-employed chaplains were mostly Christian.  Those States did not allow inmates to have their own religious advisors in the room.  Therefore, a Christian inmate could have the state-employed Christian chaplain in the room, but a Buddhist inmate, for example, could not have a Buddhist religious advisor in the room.  The Court correctly determined that this practice constituted unlawful religious discrimination because it treated inmates of different religions differently.  See Murphy v. Collier, 587 U. S. ___ (2019).

															At the same time, the Court stressed that an inmate had to timely raise such a claim so that the execution would not be unreasonably delayed to the detriment of the victims’ families, among others.  For timeliness reasons, the Court denied relief in the first such claim to reach this Court.  See Dunn v. Ray, 586 U. S. ___ (2019).  But the Court then granted relief in the second such claim, which was timely raised.  Murphy, 587 U. S. ___.

															The bedrock religious equality principle was easy for States to apply: States could either (i) always allow a religious advisor into the execution room or (ii) always exclude a religious advisor, including any state-employed chaplain.  But States could not allow religious advisors of some religions while excluding religious advisors of other religions.

															Then, however, a different kind of claim emerged.  In States that equally barred all advisors from the execution room, some inmates brought a religious liberty claim—a claim seeking a religious exemption from an otherwise neutral and generally applicable rule excluding all advisors.  The Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000, known as RLUIPA, proscribes the State from substantially burdening an inmate’s religious exercise except when the State has a compelling interest and employs the least restrictive means to achieve that interest.  See

114Stat.
803,

42 U. S. C. §2000cc et seq.  Suing under RLUIPA, some inmates argued that the State did not have a sufficiently “compelling” interest to exclude religious advisors from the execution room—or at least that the State could satisfy its asserted safety, security, and solemnity interests by means less restrictive than excluding all religious advisors from the room.

															And then, in this case, still another kind of claim emerged.  Ramirez not only wants a religious advisor in the execution room.  He also wants the advisor to be able to engage in audible prayer and even to be able to physically touch him during the execution process.  Ramirez argues that the State does not have a sufficiently “compelling” interest to prevent such activities by religious advisors, or at least could satisfy its compelling interests by less restrictive means.  For example, security officers in the room could prevent or promptly respond to any disruption or interference.

															As to those RLUIPA claims, the Court previously indicated that a State may not completely exclude religious advisors from the execution room, even if the State equally excludes all advisors on a neutral and generally applicable basis.  See ante, at 4; Gutierrez v. Saenz, 590 U. S. ___ (2020); Dunn v. Smith, 592 U. S. ___ (2021).  And the Court today further holds that the State may not prevent a religious advisor from engaging in at least some audible prayer and physical touching of the inmate while in the execution room.  Although the Court concludes that the State has a compelling interest in ensuring the safety, security, and solemnity of the execution room, the Court decides that the State can satisfy those interests by means less restrictive than excluding religious advisors altogether or restricting religious advisors from audible prayer and touching.

															Second, the Court’s holding implicates significant issues about how the Court decides whether a State’s asserted interest is sufficiently “compelling” and how the Court assesses whether less restrictive means could satisfy that compelling interest.  This case illustrates both the difficulty of those inquiries and the important role that history and state practice often play in the analysis.

															The compelling interest standard of RLUIPA—like the compelling interest standard that the Court employs when applying strict scrutiny to examine state limitations on certain constitutional rights—necessarily operates as a balancing test.  See generally B. Kavanaugh, Two Challenges for the Judge as Umpire: Statutory Ambiguity and Constitutional Exceptions, 92 Notre Dame L. Rev. 1907, 1914–1919 (2017).  The Court starts with a heavy presumption against a state law that infringes the constitutional or statutory right in question.  The Court allows state infringement on that right only when the State has a sufficiently “compelling” interest.  See Williams-Yulee v. Florida Bar,

575 U.S. 433, 444 (2015).

															But what does “compelling” mean, and how does the Court determine when the State’s interest rises to that level?  And how does the Court then determine whether less restrictive means would still satisfy that interest?  Good questions, for which there are no great answers.  Sometimes, the Court looks to a State’s policy-based or commonsense arguments.  Often, the Court also examines history and contemporary state practice to inform the inquiries.  Cf. Republican Party of Minn. v. White,

536 U.S. 765, 785–787 (2002) (Scalia, J., for the Court).[1]

															Here, the State asserts that it has a compelling interest in ensuring the safety, security, and solemnity of the execution room.  To further those interests, the State has sought to restrict the number of people in the room, as well as their activities.  As the United States pointed out at oral argument, any disruption or interference could be “catastrophic.”  Tr. of Oral Arg. 69.  And a religious advisor would not ordinarily be allowed in a public hospital’s operating room during a major life-or-death surgical procedure, so why should one be allowed into the execution room?

															The Court has no difficulty reaching the commonsense conclusion that the State has a compelling interest in ensuring safety, security, and solemnity in the execution room.  The more difficult question is: How much risk of disruption or interference must the State tolerate in order to accommodate the inmate’s religious liberty claim under RLUIPA?

															The Court concludes that, even if audible prayer and physical touching are allowed, the State can still sufficiently ensure safety, security, and solemnity in the execution room.  The Court suggests that the risk of disruption or interference is conjecture and can be addressed in other ways.  For example, security officers in the room could immediately intervene if the religious advisor accidentally or intentionally disrupts or interferes with the execution.

															Even so, it is undeniable that allowing an outside individual in an execution room and allowing touching would increase the risk of a problem occurring, such as accidental or intentional disruption of or interference with the execution.  So why can’t the State choose to avoid any additional risk of disruption or interference, especially given the potentially catastrophic harm if the risked disruption or interference actually ensues?

															That is a difficult question to answer, in my view.  The core problem is that a State’s understandable goal of avoiding a higher risk of great harm does not easily map onto the compelling interest/least restrictive means standards.  In particular, it is difficult for a court applying those standards to know where to draw the line—that is, how much additional risk of great harm is too much for a court to order the State to bear.

															Here, if the Court’s own intuitive policy assessment that the State can reasonably tolerate the additional risk were all that the Court could muster in response to the State’s argument, I might have concluded that the State could exclude religious advisors from the execution room, or at least could restrict their activities in the room and not allow physical touching, for example.

															Importantly, however, the Court does not merely point to its own policy assessment of how much risk the State must tolerate in the execution room.  The Court also relies in part on the history of religious advisors at executions.  To be sure, the Court acknowledges that some of the history is not precisely on point because many executions historically were outdoor public hangings where the presence of religious advisors did not raise the same risks to safety, security, and solemnity that their presence in a small execution room does.  And some of the other history involved state-employed chaplains, who arguably do not raise the same risks to safety, security, and solemnity as outsiders in the execution room.  Still, the history generally demonstrates that religious advisors have often been present at executions.  And perhaps even more relevant, the Federal Government and some States have recently allowed inmates’ religious advisors into the execution room.  Those religious advisors have been allowed to engage in audible prayer and limited touching of the inmate without apparent problems.  See ante, at 13–14.  As the Court explains, experience matters in assessing whether less restrictive alternatives could still satisfy the State’s compelling interest.  Cf. Holt v. Hobbs,

574 U.S. 352, 368–369 (2015).[2]

															In short, as this case demonstrates, the compelling interest and least restrictive means standards require this Court to make difficult judgments about the strength of the State’s interests and whether those interests can be satisfied in other ways that are less restrictive of religious exercise.  Although the compelling interest and least restrictive means standards are necessarily imprecise, history and state practice can at least help structure the inquiry and focus the Court’s assessment of the State’s arguments.

															Third, turning from the doctrinal to the practical, States seek clarity going forward.  States understandably want to know what they may and may not do to regulate the time and manner of audible prayer and touching in the execution room.  In its opinion today, the Court supplies some guidance.

															Because the Court’s guidance does not purport to answer every question, however, a dose of caution for the States is probably in order, especially given the Court’s recent case law on this issue and the extraordinary micromanagement of the execution room that RLUIPA has ushered in.  The States of course may ensure the safety, security, and solemnity of the execution room.  But to avoid persistent future litigation and the accompanying delays, it may behoove States to try to accommodate an inmate’s timely and reasonable requests about a religious advisor’s presence and activities in the execution room if the States can do so without meaningfully sacrificing their compelling interests in safety, security, and solemnity.  Doing so not only would help States avoid future litigation delays but also would serve the exceptionally powerful interests of victims’ families in finally obtaining closure.

															With those comments, I join the Court’s opinion in full.
Notes
1
 The strict scrutiny test requires the government to demonstrate a “compelling interest” in order to justify imposing a burden on certain constitutional rights.  That test was first applied by this Court in certain
 
First Amendment cases in the late 1950s and early 1960s.  See R. Fallon, Strict Judicial Scrutiny, 54 UCLA L. Rev. 1267, 1270–1271 (2007); S. Siegel, The Origin of the Compelling State Interest Test and Strict Scrutiny, 48 Am. J. Legal Hist. 355, 356–357 (2006).  The test can be difficult to apply because it arguably “permits and even requires judges to engage recurrently in only minimally structured appraisals of the significance of competing values or interests in many cases.”  R. Fallon, The Nature of Constitutional Rights: The Invention and Logic of Strict Judicial Scrutiny 66–67 (2019).  In RLUIPA, Congress used the term “compelling” interest without further defining it. 

2
 Of course, in assessing risk, a government need not wait for the flood before building the levee.  But as the Court explains, the recent experience in other States can nonetheless be somewhat informative in analyzing whether the State has a sufficiently compelling interest and has employed the least restrictive means of avoiding the risk of disruption or interference from the presence of religious advisors.  Courts must be discerning, however, when relying on state practice.  States are not necessarily required to follow the less restrictive practices of other States in a kind of race to the top (or bottom).  Moreover, state practice can fluctuate as States change their approach to an issue over time.  In any event, other States’ practices nonetheless have sometimes informed judicial evaluation of whether a State’s interest rises to the level of “compelling,” and whether a State has employed the least restrictive means of achieving that interest. 


