::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-030
::decision_cite:: 21-5592
::decision_name::  Ramirez v. Collier
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–5592

															_________________

															John H. Ramirez, PETITIONER v. Bryan Collier, Executive Director, Texas Department of Criminal Justice, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[March 24, 2022]

															

															Justice Thomas, dissenting.

															Petitioner John Henry Ramirez stabbed Pablo Castro 29 times during a robbery that netted $1.25.  Castro bled to death in a parking lot.  Since that day, Ramirez has manufactured more than a decade of delay to evade the capital sentence lawfully imposed by the State of Texas.  This Court now affords yet another chance for him to delay his execution.  Because I think Ramirez’s claims either do not warrant equitable relief or are procedurally barred, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															The saga of Ramirez’s crimes and the ensuing litigation warrants a fuller retelling than the majority provides.

															A

															On the night of July 19, 2004, John Henry Ramirez, Christina Chavez, and Angela Rodriguez ran out of drug money.  Wanting more, they drove through Corpus Christi, Texas, in search of victims to rob.  Ramirez v. Stephens, 641 Fed. Appx. 312, 314 (CA5 2016).

															Pablo Castro, a father of nine, was working the night shift at the Times Market convenience store, as he had for years.  With midnight approaching, he and another employee prepared to close up.  Castro collected the trash and went outside to put it in the dumpster.  Ramirez v. State, 2011 WL 1196886, *1–*5 (Tex. Crim. App., Mar. 16, 2011).

															Ramirez and his confederates found Castro in the convenience store’s parking lot.  Wielding a serrated knife, Ramirez slashed and stabbed Castro 29 times.  Castro suffered eight wounds on his forearm and hands as he struggled to defend himself.  He suffered many more wounds to the head, neck, shoulders, and back.  After Castro fell to the ground, the attackers rifled through his pockets, collected $1.25, and drove away.  Ibid.

															Two employees at a nearby store witnessed the attack.  When they reached Castro, he was still conscious.  He had suffered a deep gash across his throat and was spitting up blood.  Castro eventually lost consciousness and, by the time first responders arrived, he had stopped breathing.  He died in the parking lot.  Ibid.

															Having netted only $1.25 from Castro, Ramirez and the others pursued new targets.  Within minutes of murdering Castro, they found April Metting waiting in the drive-through of a Whataburger, with her 2-year-old son in the back seat.  While Chavez distracted Metting, Ramirez crept up to the driver’s side window, grabbed Metting by the back of her neck, and held the now blood-stained serrated knife to her throat.  Metting implored the assailants not to harm her in front of her child.  Ramirez ordered: “ ‘Shut up, bitch.’ ”  Metting surrendered her purse, and Ramirez let her go.  The assailants again fled in their van.  Id., at *3–*4.

															They next targeted Ruby Pena Hinojosa, who was sitting in the drive-through line of a different Whataburger.  As before, one of the women distracted Hinojosa while Ramirez approached her driver-side window to put the knife to her neck.  But Hinojosa was able to dodge the knife, roll up the window, and back her car away from the assailants, who then departed in their van.  Ibid.

															Not long after, responding officers spotted the van and pulled it over.  When the officers exited their patrol cruiser, the van sped off.  The police pursued, only to lose sight of it.  Ramirez, Rodriguez, and Chavez then abandoned the van in an overgrown lot and continued on foot.  Id., at *5.  Police soon found and arrested Rodriguez and Chavez, but they did not find Ramirez.  He fled to Mexico and hid there for over three years before law enforcement apprehended him near the U. S.-Mexican border.  Id., at *6, n. 3.

															B

															In 2008, A Texas jury convicted Ramirez of capital murder and sentenced him to death.  The Texas courts upheld the conviction on direct and state postconviction review.  In October 2013, Ramirez filed a federal habeas petition in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas.  Seven years of habeas litigation followed, during which the District Court intervened at the last minute to stay a 2017 execution.  See Part II–A–1, infra.  Ultimately, the District Court, the Court of Appeals, and this Court denied relief.  See Ramirez v. Davis,

580 U.S. 833 (2016) (denying certiorari); Ramirez v. Davis, 589 U. S. ___ (2020) (same).

															After the federal habeas proceedings had run their course, Texas set a new execution date for September 9, 2020.  But, in August 2020, Ramirez sued under Rev. Stat. §1979,

42 U. S. C. §1983, to stop the execution, arguing that Texas’ then-operative ban on outside spiritual advisors in the execution chamber violated the
 
First Amendment and the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000 (RLUIPA),

42 U. S. C. §2000cc et seq.  Ramirez demanded that his pastor, Dana Moore, be present with him during his execution.  But Ramirez also pleaded in his complaint that “Pastor Moore need not touch [him] at any time in the execution chamber.”  App. 61.  Ultimately, Ramirez and Texas agreed to recall the death warrant, withdraw the execution date, and dismiss the complaint.  Texas then changed its execution protocols to permit vetted spiritual advisors into the chamber.

															On February 5, 2021, a Texas state court set Ramirez’s execution date for September 8, 2021.  Two months passed before Ramirez submitted an administrative grievance requesting that the prison allow his pastor into the execution chamber.  Id., at 50–51.  Texas acquiesced on May 4.  Id., at 55.  Another month passed.  Then, on June 11, Ramirez submitted a new grievance requesting what his 2020 complaint specifically disclaimed: that his spiritual advisor be allowed to “ ‘lay hands on [him]’ during [his] upcoming execution.”  Id., at 52.  In the part of the grievance instructing him to describe the “[a]ction [r]equested to resolve [his] [c]omplaint,” Ramirez asked that Texas permit Moore to lay hands on him and “pray over” him during the execution.  Id., at 53.

															Texas denied that request on July 2.  Ibid.  Ramirez sought administrative review of the decision on July 8.  Id., at 155–156.  On August 10, before the prison decided the appeal, Ramirez again sued under §1983, this time claiming that the State’s refusal to allow his pastor to lay hands on him violated the
 
First Amendment and RLUIPA.

															On August 22—just 17 days before his execution date—Ramirez amended his complaint.  He still demanded that the State allow his pastor to lay hands on him.  But he now specified that he also wanted Moore to engage in “audible praying” during the execution.  Id., at 96 (emphasis added).

															In light of his belated §1983 suit, Ramirez moved the District Court on August 18 to stay his execution.  The State responded that Ramirez’s claims did not warrant equitable relief and were not properly exhausted under the Prison Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PLRA),

42 U. S. C. §1997e(a).  The District Court denied Ramirez’s motion on September 2.  ___ F. Supp. 3d ___ (SD Tex. 2021).  A divided panel of the Court of Appeals likewise denied relief.  Concurring, Chief Judge Owen observed: “[T]he shifting of Ramirez’s litigation posture indicates that the change in position is strategic, and that delay is the goal.”  10 F. 4th 561, 562 (CA5 2021).  Nevertheless, just a few hours before Ramirez’s execution was scheduled to take place on September 8, this Court stayed the proceeding and granted his petition for a writ of certiorari.  See 594 U. S. ___ (2021).

															II

															This Court granted equitable relief in September, and today it grants further relief pending proceedings below.  Ramirez presses two reasons why he merited—and continues to merit—our intervention in Texas’ enforcement of his capital sentence.  First, he argues that the State would violate RLUIPA by prohibiting his pastor from “laying hands” on him during his execution.  Second, he argues that the State would violate the same statute by prohibiting his pastor from audibly praying during the execution.  I do not think either claim warranted relief on September 8.  Nor do I think either claim warrants further relief now.

															A

															First, I disagree with the majority that Ramirez’s demand for in-chambers touching merits relief.

															An “equitable remedy,” such as a stay of execution or a preliminary injunction, is “not available as a matter of right” to a death-row inmate who has sued the State under §1983.  Hill v. McDonough,

547 U.S. 573, 584 (2006).  The parties agree that Ramirez seeks a particular type of equitable relief: a preliminary injunction.  See ante, at 6.  A federal court may issue this “extraordinary remedy” only if the prisoner shows that he is likely to succeed on the merits, that he will be irreparably injured absent the injunction, and that the equities, taking the public interest into account, balance in his favor.  Nken v. Holder,

556 U.S. 418, 432, 434 (2009) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Two components of the equitable balance are especially relevant here.  First, federal courts “should police carefully” against abusive litigation designed “to interpose unjustified delay” and deny relief if they detect gamesmanship.  Bucklew v. Precythe, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 30).  Second, federal courts “must take into consideration” the weighty interest that States and victims have in carrying out capital sentences in a timely manner. See id., at ___ (slip op., at 29); Gomez v. United States Dist. Court for Northern Dist. of Cal.,

503 U.S. 653, 654 (1992) (per curiam).  These equitable factors foreclose Ramirez’s request for extraordinary relief.

															1

															This Court has long recognized the “equitable principl[e]” that “a suitor’s conduct in relation to the matter at hand may disentitle him to the relief he seeks.”  Sanders v. United States,

373 U.S. 1, 17 (1963); see also, e.g., Deweese v. Reinhard,

165 U.S. 386, 390 (1897) (“[I]f the conduct of the plaintiff be offensive to the dictates of natural justice, . . . he will be held remediless in a court of equity”); Bein v. Heath, 6 How. 228, 247 (1848); 1 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurisprudence §397 (4th ed. 1918).  Or, as the majority puts it, if a prisoner acts inequitably, “ ‘the doors of the court will be shut against him.’ ”  Ante, at 19 (quoting Keystone Driller Co. v. General Excavator Co.,

290 U.S. 240, 245 (1933)).

															This equitable rule is especially important in the death penalty context.  Unsurprisingly, death-row inmates generally employ any means available to stave off their sentences and therefore often engage in abusive litigation.  See Woodard v. Hutchins,

464 U.S. 377, 380 (1984) (Powell, J., concurring) (noting a “pattern”).  And this Court has warned that, while zealous “counsel for the condemned in a capital case” understandably “lay hold of every ground which, in their judgment, might tend to the advantage of their client,” they should not “interfer[e] with “the administration of justice . . . on mere pretexts.”  Lambert v. Barrett,

159 U.S. 660, 662 (1895).

															Prisoners engage in abusive litigation in several different ways.  For instance, some prisoners hold off bringing new claims until the last minute in order to force courts to stay or enjoin an execution simply to afford themselves more time to consider the merits of the claims.  See, e.g., Woodard, 464 U. S., at 377–380 (Powell, J., concurring); Bucklew, 587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 30); Price v. Dunn, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (Thomas, J., concurring in denial of certiorari) (slip op., at 13); Dunn v. Ray, 586 U. S. ___ (2019) (slip op., at 1).  Other prisoners bring any “meritless” claim available, no matter how frivolous, in hopes a sympathetic court will grant relief.  Ibid.; see also Hill, 547 U. S., at 584–585; Lambert, 159 U. S., at 662.  Still others litigate their claims “piecemeal[,] . . . challenging one aspect” of their execution “after another” in order to buy time.  Hill, 547 U. S., at 581; see also Woodard, 464 U. S., at 380 (Powell, J., concurring); Williams v. Kelley, 854 F.3d 998, 1002 (CA8 2017) (per curiam); cf. Sanders, 373 U. S., at 18 (noting that federal courts should not “tolerate needless piecemeal litigation, or . . . entertain collateral proceedings whose only purpose is to vex, harass, or delay”).  And, in many other ways, yet more prisoners “deliberately engage in dilatory tactics” designed to drag execution- delaying claims out “indefinitely.”  Rhines v. Weber,

544 U.S. 269, 277–278 (2005); see also Ryan v. Valencia Gonzales,

568 U.S. 57, 76–77 (2013).  These tactics all too often succeed.  See, e.g., Bucklew, 587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 29) (describing two decades of delay).

															Because of the prevalence of vexatious death penalty litigation, a court sitting in equity “must” consider whether a condemned criminal has made an “attempt at manipulation” that would disqualify him from equitable relief.  Gomez, 503 U. S., at 654.  Federal courts faced with abusive litigation “can and should” use their “equitable powers” to protect state judgments and sentences.  Bucklew, 587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 30) (internal quotation marks omitted); see also Barr v. Lee, 591 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (per curiam) (slip op., at 3) (describing “our responsibility” to ensure that lawful sentences are carried out “ ‘fairly and expeditiously’ ”); 1 Pomeroy’s Equity Jurisprudence §397.

															Today, this Court should have denied equitable relief to a prisoner who has acted inequitably—as both the District Court and Court of Appeals did before us.  Ramirez’s shifting litigation position lays bare what he really wants: “to manipulate the judicial process” to win further delay.  Gomez, 503 U. S., at 654.  The record all but speaks for itself.  In August 2020, when Ramirez first demanded that Texas allow his pastor into the chamber, he explicitly avowed that his pastor “need not touch” him “at any time in the execution chamber.”  App. 61.  Taking Ramirez at his word, Texas eventually acquiesced.  But then Ramirez flipped his position and filed another administrative grievance and §1983 complaint demanding what he had earlier disclaimed: touching in the execution chamber.  See id., at 19, 52.  This is a textbook example of dilatory and abusive “piecemeal litigation” against which we have warned courts in equity to guard.  See Hill, 547 U. S., at 585.  Like Chief Judge Owen, I think that the shift in Ramirez’s litigation posture alone justifies denying equitable relief because it “indicates that the change in position is strategic and that delay is the goal.”  10 F. 4th, at 562 (Owen, C. J., concurring).

															But if any doubt remained on that score, the history of this case dispels it.  Ramirez’s current RLUIPA suit is but the latest iteration in an 18-year pattern of evasion.

															First, consider the night of the murder.  Rather than surrender and face justice, Ramirez sped away from police before abandoning his confederates and fleeing on foot.  Ramirez, 2011 WL 1196886, *3.  He even went so far as to abscond to a foreign country, delaying justice for another 3 ½ years.  His evasion ended only after state and federal law enforcement captured him on the southern border.  See id., at *6, n. 3.

															Ramirez continued to engineer delay in state court.  After a jury convicted him, his case moved to the sentencing phase.  Ramirez’s lawyer intended to put on mitigation witnesses.  But after one witness, Ramirez instructed his lawyer to call no more.  The state court found Ramirez competent and honored his decision.  Predictably, he was sentenced to death.  Yet, during state habeas proceedings, Ramirez nonetheless brought a claim (among several others) accusing his state trial counsel of ineffective assistance for failing to provide an adequate mitigation defense.  Ramirez, 641 Fed. Appx., at 315, 326–327.  The state courts had to take the time to adjudicate this patently meritless claim, arising from Ramirez’s own sentencing-phase decision and subsequent about-face.  Ibid.

															The pattern continued in federal habeas proceedings.  Ramirez brought several claims.  Among them, he again claimed that his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance for failing to call more mitigation witnesses.  The District Court proceedings alone bought Ramirez another 20 months, at the end of which the District Court ruled that all of his claims were procedurally barred, lacked merit, or both.  The court also declined to issue a certificate of appealability on any claim, see Ramirez v. Stephens, 2015 WL 3629639, *26 (SD Tex., June 10, 2015), meaning that it thought no “reasonable jurists” would believe its decision to deny relief was even “debatable,” Slack v. McDaniel,

529 U.S. 473, 484 (2000).

															Undeterred, Ramirez sought a certificate of appealability in the Court of Appeals.  The Court of Appeals denied Ramirez’s request, but only after those proceedings bought him another seven months of delay.  See Ramirez, 641 Fed. Appx., at 314.  Ramirez then sought our review.  We did not deny his petition for a writ of certiorari until October 3, 2016—three years after he first filed his federal habeas petition.  See Ramirez v. Davis,

580 U.S. 833.

															Reasonably thinking the litigation finished, Texas set Ramirez’s execution for February 2, 2017.  Yet Ramirez squeezed more time out of his federal petition with a “[l]ast-minute” motion to stay his execution, Bucklew, 587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 30), filed less than a week before the execution date.  Through new counsel, Ramirez argued that his prior federal habeas counsel suffered from a conflict of interest and had abandoned him during clemency proceedings.  Ramirez suggested that he needed a stay because he might try to reopen his habeas judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b).  Citing the “short time remaining before Ramirez’s execution” and the “immediacy” of the situation, the District Court granted the stay two days before the scheduled execution, Ramirez v. Davis, No. 2:12–CV–410, ECF Doc. 48, pp. 1, 9 (SD Tex., Jan. 31, 2017), which the Court of Appeals affirmed the next day, see Ramirez v. Davis, 675 Fed. Appx. 478 (CA5 2017) (per curiam).

															This extraordinary equitable relief did not inspire Ramirez to make any extraordinary effort—or, frankly, any effort—to resolve the proceedings expeditiously.  Instead, Ramirez filed his Rule 60(b) motion on August 20, 2018—over 18 months after alerting the District Court of his intent to do so.  See ECF Doc. 74 (SD Tex., Aug. 20, 2018).  The District Court admonished Ramirez for his “unreasonably delayed” motion before dismissing it on procedural and jurisdictional grounds.  ECF Doc. 80, p. 11 (SD Tex., Jan. 3, 2019).  And, as before, the District Court denied him a certificate of appealability.  Id., at 17.  So, too, did the Court of Appeals after another six months had passed, see Ramirez v. Davis, 780 Fed. Appx. 110, 120 (CA5 2019), and this Court took several more months to deny his petition for a writ of certiorari, see Ramirez v. Davis, 589 U. S. ___ (2020).  All told, Ramirez’s 11th-hour gambit in January 2017 bought him more than three years of delay.

															In the end, none of Ramirez’s federal habeas claims merited even a single certificate of appealability, let alone relief.  Yet, through ceaseless litigation, strategic delay, and a “[l]ast-minute” blitz on the District Court, Bucklew, 587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 30), Ramirez parlayed his federal habeas petition into a 7-year deferral of his lawfully imposed sentence.  We should interpret Ramirez’s actions in the instant litigation in light of that history, recognize that his shifting in-chambers-touching claim is just another chapter in that history, and reject his most recent attempt to delay his execution.

															2

															Second, a court balancing the equities must consider that “[b]oth the State and the victims of crime have an important interest in the timely enforcement of a sentence.”  Hill, 547 U. S., at 584; see also Gomez, 503 U. S., at 654.  The State’s interest inheres in our form of government, given that “our federal system” protects a State from “repeated frustration” of its imposition of a capital sentence.  Wainwright v. Spenkelink,

442 U.S. 901, 903–904 (1979) (Rehnquist, J., dissenting).  “[T]he question of capital punishment belongs to the people and their representatives . . . to resolve,” and the people are entitled to see their chosen sentence carried out.  Bucklew, 587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 29).

															Meanwhile, victims share the State’s interest in the timely execution of a lawful sentence.  “Only with real finality can the victims of crime move forward knowing the moral judgment” of the State “will be carried out.”  Calderon v. Thompson,

523 U.S. 538, 556 (1998).  Endless delay harms “the ‘powerful and legitimate interest in punishing the guilty,’ an interest shared by the State and the victims of crime alike.”  Ibid. (citation omitted).  “Th[is] interes[t is] magnified” when the offense is of a “heinous nature.”  In re Federal Bureau of Prisons’ Execution Protocol Cases, 955 F.3d 106, 127 (CADC 2020) (Katsas, J., concurring).

															The equitable balance here tilts decisively in favor of the State and Ramirez’s victims.  Texans, acting through their elected representatives, have decided that certain crimes range so far beyond what a civilized society will accept that only a death sentence will suffice.  Ramirez long has denied Texas its sovereign interest in seeing that sentence carried out “fairly and expeditiously.”  Bucklew, 587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 30). Moreover, the legal uncertainty surrounding Texas’ death penalty protocols that his litigation engendered has led to further delays in at least four other Texas cases.  See Texas Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, Texas Death Penalty Developments in 2021: The Year in Review 8 (Dec. 16, 2021).  Each of these delays “work[s] a miscarriage of justice on the State.”  Price v. Dunn, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (opinion of Thomas, J.) (slip op., at 13) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Moreover, by evading his sentence, Ramirez has inflicted recurrent emotional injuries on the victims of his crime.  When Ramirez killed Pablo Castro, he stole more than a life and $1.25.  He stole a father from nine children.  Four of them filed a brief in this case to explain how Ramirez’s machinations have “ ‘frustrated’ ” their interest in seeing what they believe to be a just execution carried out.  Brief for Pablo Castro’s Children as Amici Curiae 13 (quoting Bucklew, 587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 29)).

															Fernando Castro has watched as Ramirez repeatedly “ ‘used loopholes to delay [his] execution,’ ” leaving Fernando with a “ ‘lack of closure for many years, ever since [he] was merely a child.’ ”  Brief for Pablo Castro’s Children as Amici Curiae 12.  Roberto Castro likewise wants “ ‘to close this chapter so that the healing process can continue without being reopened every couple of years to entertain Ramirez’s appeals.’ ”  Id. at 15.  Maria Chauvon Aguilar, who remembers her father as “ ‘a great man,’ ” also must endure “ ‘all this pain and suffering’ ” each time the courts “ ‘put a hold on’ ” Ramirez’s execution.  Ibid.  Her indignity and frustration grow particularly acute when Ramirez receives “ ‘all this publicity’ ” from sympathetic media outlets for his efforts to delay his lawful sentence, as if “ ‘he just won a gold medal.’ ”  Ibid.  Finally, Pablo Castro, Jr., must live every day with the fact that his father “ ‘was not able to witness [him] graduate school, basic training, advance individual training, or see his grandchildren.’ ”  Id., at 16.  He wants “ ‘justice and [to] be able to close this horrible chapter’ ” in his life and the lives of his family members.  Ibid.

															These four siblings ask that their father “ ‘finally have his justice’ ” so that “ ‘this nightmare [can] be over.’ ”  Ibid.  As their words show, delays like the kind Ramirez has pursued here “inflict further emotional trauma on the family . . . of the murder victim.”  Murphy v. Collier, 587 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (Alito, J., dissenting from grant of application for stay) (slip op., at 7).

															3

															The majority does not adequately account for either Ramirez’s inequitable conduct or the State’s and his victims’ interest in the timely execution of his capital sentence.

															Consider first Ramirez’s inequitable conduct.  The majority acknowledges that “ ‘the doors of the court will be shut against’ ” a prisoner who engages in abusive litigation.  Ante, at 19 (quoting Keystone Driller, 290 U. S., at 245).  But it proceeds as though the abusive-litigation inquiry asks only whether “a litigant ‘slept upon his rights.’ ”  Ante, at 20 (quoting Gildersleeve v. New Mexico Mining Co.,

161 U.S. 573, 578 (1896)).  As described above, last-minute litigation is but one of several types of abusive and manipulative litigation that death-row inmates employ to delay their executions.  See supra, at 7; see also, e.g., Hill, 547 U. S., at 584–585 (separately listing abusive claims that are “speculative,” “filed too late in the day,” “[r]epetitive,” or “piecemeal”).  Here, Ramirez not only brought his claims piecemeal; he executed a bait and switch.  He first demanded his pastor’s presence without touching, but then shifted and demanded touching when requesting Moore’s presence alone no longer gave him an excuse for delay.  The majority’s analysis simply fails to factor in Ramirez’s inequitable conduct.

															In any event, the timing of Ramirez’s claims still cuts against granting equitable relief.  True, this was not an 11th-hour blitz of the sort that Ramirez carried out in 2017.  But Ramirez should have communicated his touching claim no later than September 2020, when he expressly disclaimed any need for it.  Instead, he parceled out his claims tactically to drag out the time before his sentence, finally asking for in-chambers touching in June 2021, mere months before the September 2021 execution date.

															Worse, the majority bypasses the “ ‘important interest’ ” that both the State and Ramirez’s victims have in the execution.  Ante, at 19 (quoting Hill, 547 U. S., at 584).  It does not mention that “the question of capital punishment belongs to the people and their representatives, not the courts, to resolve.”  Bucklew, 587 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 29).  It does not discuss the pain that every delay has inflicted on Castro’s family.  See supra, at ___–___.  And it does not acknowledge that the “heinous nature” of the offense—the brutal slaying of a working father during a robbery spree to supply a drug habit—“magnified” the State’s and the victims’ shared interest in the prompt execution of Ramirez’s capital sentence.  In re Federal Bureau of Prisons’ Execution Protocol Cases, 955 F. 3d, at 127 (Katsas, J., concurring).  Texas’ citizens and Castro’s family deserve more consideration and better treatment than the majority gives them.

															Instead, the majority discounts these considerations because it thinks it can resolve the case “without delaying or impeding [Ramirez’s] execution.”  Ante, at 19.  Of course, that is self-evidently wrong.  We are now many months past what was Ramirez’s third execution date.  And, in the mine run of cases, the majority’s approach will not do all that it promises.  The majority proposes that when a federal court “determines that relief is appropriate under RLUIPA, the proper remedy is an injunction ordering the accommodation, not a stay of the execution.”  Ante, at 21.  According to the majority, “[t]his approach balances the State’s interest in carrying out capital sentences without delay and the prisoner’s interest in religious exercise.”  Ibid.  But if the State has the temerity to challenge a federal court’s assessment of its execution-chamber protocols under RLUIPA, the State must necessarily pursue “[f]urther proceedings.”  Ante, at 22.  Doing so “might also contribute to further delay in carrying out the sentence,” ibid., for which the State will now be at fault.  Thus, “[t]he State will have to determine where its interest lies in going forward.”  Ibid.

															Here is how the majority’s test will likely play out in practice: Prisoners, ably represented by the death penalty defense bar, will propose new accommodations tailored to elicit an objection from the State.  They will then have three levels of federal-court review in which to litigate whether the State has complied with RLUIPA.  From the outset, many district courts will find that RLUIPA demands an accommodation.  They will then put the State to a stark choice: capitulate to the court-ordered accommodation that it thinks is dangerous, or litigate and delay the execution, knowing that the delay will count against it in the equitable balance.  Now seen as the blameworthy party, the State that chooses to litigate will “hardly” be able to “complain about the inequities of delay” caused by a prisoner’s last-minute filings, because the court will hold that the State’s “own actions were a significant contributing factor.”  Ante, at 20.  Thereafter, the district court and court of appeals will be less likely to dismiss a prisoner’s abusive lawsuit because, after all, both sides will have been liable for the delay.  And, like here, the result will be months or years of federally imposed stasis.  The State, its citizens, and the victims will pay the price of that delay.

															4

															Equities aside, I also doubt Ramirez is likely to succeed on the merits of his touching claim.  To prevail, Ramirez will have to show that his request is “sincerely based on a religious belief.”  Holt v. Hobbs,

574 U.S. 352, 360–361 (2015).  “[T]he propensity of some prisoners to assert claims of dubious sincerity [is] well documented.”  Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc.,

573 U.S. 682, 718 (2014).  So, just as federal courts have a duty to deny equitable relief to prisoners engaged in vexatious litigation, they likewise have a duty under RLUIPA to deny religious liberty claims when prisoners are insincere.  See ibid. (Congress passed RLUIPA “confident of the ability of the federal courts to weed out insincere claims”); Holt, 574 U. S., at 369 (noting that prison officials may question the authenticity of a prisoner’s religious belief ); Cutter v. Wilkinson,

544 U.S. 709, 725, n. 13 (2005) (same).  The evidence that demonstrates Ramirez is bringing abusive litigation to delay his execution also strongly suggests that he does not sincerely believe that his pastor needs to touch him in the execution chamber.

															The majority concedes that Ramirez’s “evolving litigation positio[n]” is evidence of insincerity, but concludes that “ample” evidence cuts the other way.  Ante, at 11–12.  The majority’s countervailing evidence, however, falls short of showing any sincerity, let alone “a clear showing that [Ramirez] is entitled to . . . relief.”  Winter v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,

555 U.S. 7, 22 (2008) (citing Mazurek v. Armstrong,

520 U.S. 968, 972 (1997) (per curiam)).  The majority’s primary support is that the laying of hands is a “traditional for[m] of religious exercise” and that Moore engages in the practice.  Ante, at 10.  But whether Ramirez’s supposed belief is “traditional” is irrelevant.  RLUIPA’s protection, like “[t]he protection of the
 
First Amendment[,] is not restricted to orthodox religious practices.”  Follett v. Town of McCormick,

321 U.S. 573, 577 (1944); see also N. Chapman, Adjudicating Religious Sincerity, 92 Wash. L. Rev. 1185, 1197–1202 (2017).  The relevant issue is whether Ramirez himself actually believes that it is “part of [his] faith to have [his] spiritual advisor lay hands on [him].”  App. 52.  To that point, the majority cites nothing other than Ramirez’s bare grievance—precisely the same evidence that shows the “evolving litigation positio[n]” that the majority concedes is evidence of insincerity.  Thus, the only relevant evidence in this case cuts strongly in favor of finding that Ramirez is insincere.

															B

															Ramirez also asks us to intervene in his long-delayed execution because Texas will not allow his pastor to pray audibly in the execution chamber.  Given Ramirez’s history, I suspect that his goal in raising this claim is also to secure delay.  But his audible-prayer claim suffers from an antecedent defect: Ramirez did not comply with the PLRA by exhausting the administrative remedies available to him before bringing his claim to federal court.  Because he failed to carry out this mandatory, congressionally imposed threshold requirement, I would dismiss his claim.

															1

															Congress passed the PLRA “to eliminate unwarranted federal-court interference with the administration of prisons” and to allow state prisons the opportunity to address problems before they become federal cases.  Woodford v. Ngo,

548 U.S. 81, 89, 93 (2006).  To that end, the PLRA requires prisoners to exhaust available administrative remedies before suing.  See

42 U. S. C. §1997e(a).  Those remedies include “prison grievance procedures.”  Jones v. Bock, 

549 U.S. 199, 217–218 (2007).  Further, any exhaustion must be “proper”—that is, “a prisoner must complete the [prison] review process in accordance with the applicable procedural rules.”  Woodford, 548 U. S., at 88; see also Jones, 549 U. S., at 211.  Ultimately, a federal court may not hear a prisoner’s claim if he has failed to comply with those “critical procedural rules” that “impos[e] some orderly structure on the course of . . . proceedings.”  Woodford, 548 U. S., at 90–91.

															Ramirez failed to exhaust his audible-prayer claim properly under the PLRA because he did not comply with the administrative procedures prescribed by the Texas Department of Criminal Justice.  Two sets of procedural requirements set forth in the department’s prisoner handbook and on its grievance forms are most salient.  See Tex. Dept. of Criminal Justice, Offender Orientation Handbook (Feb. 2017) (Prison Handbook); App. 52–53 (Step 1 form).  First, a prisoner must “attempt to informally resolve [his] problem . . . before filing a grievance,” and he must “not[e]” the informal resolution attempt “in the space provided” on a “Step 1 grievance form.”  Prison Handbook 73–75.  Second, when filing a Step 1 form, the prisoner must “[s]tate [his] grievance” in the designated section, describing the “who, what, when, [and] where” applicable to the grievance.  App. 52; see also Prison Handbook 73–75 (prisoners must make their grievance by “completely filling out” a “Step 1 grievance form (I–127)”).

															Ramirez failed to comply with either requirement.

															First, Ramirez did not attempt informal resolution of his audible-prayer claim in accordance with Texas’ procedures.  His grievance form described the informal effort he made to resolve his touching request, but it did not mention any informal attempt to resolve any grievance related to audible prayer.  See App. 52.  Whether Ramirez made no effort to resolve this grievance, or he simply failed to document his efforts to do so, makes no difference under the PLRA; he did not comply either way.  And that failure is not trivial.  Several prisons have imposed a threshold requirement that prisoners attempt to resolve their issues informally and then document that attempt.  See Woodford, 548 U. S., at 85–86 (describing California’s informal resolution requirement); see also, e.g., Little v. Jones, 607 F.3d 1245, 1249 (CA10 2010) (describing Oklahoma’s informal first step).  This “step 0” is critical—it reduces the administrative burden on prison adjudicatory authorities and avoids turning minor misunderstandings into formal adversarial proceedings.  Ramirez’s failure to comply with this “critical procedural rul[e]” means that he failed to exhaust his audible-prayer claim “properly.”  Woodford, 548 U. S., at 90.

															Second, in the section of the Step 1 form where the prisoner is supposed to “[s]tate [his] grievance,” Ramirez said nothing about audible prayer.  App. 52.  Ramirez mentioned only that he wanted his pastor to “lay hands” on him in the chamber.  Ibid.  It was that laying of hands, alone, that Ramirez identified as “part of [his] faith.”  Ibid.  Ramirez thus denied Texas “a fair and full opportunity to adjudicate” his new audible-prayer claim.  Woodford, 548 U. S., at 90.  That failure, like his failure to seek informal resolution, is no small matter.  Absent proper presentation of a grievance pursuant to procedures that “impos[e] some orderly structure on the course of . . . proceedings,” “no adjudicative system can function effectively.”  Id., at 90–91.  To avoid that breakdown, States like Texas must be able to rely on federal courts to decline entertaining lawsuits that do not comply with the PLRA.  Otherwise, because prisoners “do not want to exhaust” and have no “incentive” to do so, they will stop following prison procedures, and the benefit of administrative adjudication will be lost.  Id., at 90.

															2

															The majority does not dispute these procedural shortcomings.  Regarding Ramirez’s failure to seek informal resolution, it says nothing.  And, on Ramirez’s failure to state a grievance, the majority itself ignores Texas’ procedural rules.  The majority notes that, in the section of Ramirez’s grievance where he was required to state the “[a]ction [r]equested to resolve [his] [c]omplaint,” Ramirez wrote: “That I be ALLOWED to have my Spiritual Advisor ‘lay hands on me’ & pray over me while I am being executed.”  App. 53.  That is not enough.  For one, the statement appears in the wrong part of the grievance form.  There would be a substantial loss in administrative efficiency if prison officials had to rummage through different parts of a grievance form to discern what the grievance actually is.  For another, that single statement is woefully imprecise.  The State is free to decide the “level of detail necessary in a grievance to comply with the grievance procedures.”  Jones, 549 U. S., at 218.  Texas defined one here—the handbook instructs that “[t]he specific action required to resolve the complaint shall be clearly stated in the space provided on the I–127 form.”  Prison Handbook 75 (emphasis added).  Ramirez did not “clearly” describe the relief he now says he wants.  His fleeting, general reference to prayer, lodged in the wrong section of a form with a request for in-chambers touching, did not put Texas officials on notice of what he was demanding.  That Ramirez felt the need to amend his August 2021 §1983 complaint explicitly to include “audible prayers” proves the point.  App. 91 (Second Amended Complaint).

															But even if he had, Ramirez would have failed to satisfy the PLRA for yet another reason.  If the grievance had, in fact, presented two claims, neither of them would have been properly exhausted because Texas prisoners may “[p]resent only one issue per grievance.”  Prison Handbook 74.  An “issue” is a “point in dispute between two or more parties.”  Black’s Law Dictionary 995 (11th ed. 2019).  The touching claim and the audible-prayer claim present two independent issues, each of which (as this litigation demonstrates) represents a different “point of dispute” calling for independent analysis.  See Ramirez v. Collier, 594 U. S. ___ (2021) (ordering briefing on whether Texas rules restricting “either audible prayer or physical contact” burdened Ramirez); compare ante, at 7–8 (first addressing the audible-prayer claim), with ante, at 8–9 (then addressing the touching claim); ante, at 18 (acknowledging multiple “claims”).  If Ramirez had raised his audible-prayer claim on the June 11 grievance form, he would have violated Texas procedures by doing so, meaning he would not have properly exhausted either claim at issue here.  See Woodford, 548 U. S., at 88, 93.

															Finally, for his part, Ramirez raises one additional argument on which the majority does not rely.  He argues that the State’s changing position over what it would permit in the execution chamber rendered the administrative grievance process “unavailable” to him, and therefore he was under no obligation to exhaust administrative remedies.  Ross v. Blake,

578 U.S. 632, 643 (2016).  But Ramirez’s own conduct belies that claim.  He used the grievance process twice in the lead up to the execution date.  See, e.g., App. 50–55.  The State responded to his concerns.  The first time, the State acquiesced, allowing his pastor into the chamber.  Id., at 55.  The second time, the State did not, denying his request to allow his pastor to lay hands on him.  Id., at 53.  So, each time, the administrative review process was available to him.  He cannot now blame a system that his own experience shows he was “ ‘capable of us[ing].’ ”  Ross, 578 U. S., at 642 (quoting Booth v. Churner,

532 U.S. 731, 738 (2001)).

															*  *  *

															This case well demonstrates why a prisoner’s failure to exhaust under the PLRA should not be excused.  If Ramirez had pursued administrative remedies properly, the State would have had a “fair opportunity to consider [his] grievance.”  Woodford, 548 U. S., at 95.  For example, an attempt at informal resolution might have allowed the prison chaplain or other officials to resolve his request at an earlier juncture.  Or, if Ramirez had given prison officials any notice of his request in a formal grievance, he and the State might have been able to come up with a compromise before federal litigation turned them into adversaries.  Id., at 89 (noting the value of settling claims at the “administrative level”).  At the very least, we might have had a more robust administrative record with which to assess the burdens, interests, and state rules on which his RLUIPA claims hinge.  See id., at 95 (noting that proper exhaustion “often results in the creation of an administrative record that is helpful to the court”).  Such a record might have obviated the need to wait for the “[f]urther proceedings on remand” that the majority now thinks are necessary to illuminate the State’s interests.  Ante, at 22.

															III

															In RLUIPA, Congress created a potent tool with which prisoners can protect their sincerely held religious beliefs.  But, like any tool, it can be wielded abusively.  And few have a greater incentive to do so than death-row inmates.  To counter such abuse, federal courts sitting in equity have a duty to dismiss piecemeal, late-breaking, dilatory, specious, speculative, or manipulative litigation.  RLUIPA itself complements that process by requiring a prisoner to demonstrate sincerity.

															Meanwhile, Congress passed the PLRA to force prisoners to exhaust their complaints through state prisons’ administrative review processes so that prison officials might resolve, or at least build a record to help shed light on, an alleged problem before it escalates to litigation.  Federal courts have a duty under the PLRA to dismiss these unexhausted claims.

															Today, the Court shrugs off both of these duties.  It grants equitable relief for a demonstrably abusive and insincere claim filed by a prisoner with an established history of seeking unjustified delay, harming the State and Ramirez’s victims in the process.  The Court also forgives the same prisoner’s complete failure to exhaust another claim.  Because I would deny equitable relief for the first claim and dismiss the second under the PLRA, I respectfully dissent.
													
