::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-067
::decision_cite:: 21-511
::decision_name::  Shoop v. Twyford
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–511

															_________________

															TIM SHOOP, WARDEN, PETITIONER v. RAYMOND A. TWYFORD, III

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[June 21, 2022]

															

															Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Sotomayor and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															The Court today reviews a District Court’s pretrial order requiring Ohio “to transport a prisoner in its custody to a hospital for medical testing” in order to develop evidence to support the prisoner’s habeas petition.  Ante, at 1.  The Court holds that the District Court’s order did not comply with the All Writs Act because the District Court failed to consider whether the evidence sought could be admissible in the habeas proceeding.  See ante, at 9–10.  I would not reach the merits of that question because I do not believe that the Court of Appeals had jurisdiction to hear the State’s interlocutory appeal.  I respectfully dissent.

															I

															Courts of Appeals generally have jurisdiction to review “final decisions of the district courts.”

28 U. S. C. §1291.  They do not ordinarily hear interlocutory appeals.  Limiting appellate jurisdiction over interlocutory matters avoids piecemeal decisionmaking and “combine[s] in one review all stages of the proceeding that effectively may be reviewed and corrected if and when final judgment results.”  Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial Loan Corp.,

337 U.S. 541, 546 (1949).  Too many interlocutory appeals could slow down the workings of the judicial system.  That can lead to a number of harms, including, e.g., “mak[ing] it more difficult for trial judges to do their basic job—supervising trial proceedings”; “threaten[ing] those proceedings with delay, adding costs and diminishing coherence”; and “risk[ing] additional, and unnecessary, appellate court work.”  Johnson v. Jones,

515 U.S. 304, 309 (1995).

															At the same time, interlocutory appeals can sometimes have “important countervailing benefits.”  Ibid.  Balancing the harms and benefits can be a difficult task, and Congress has prescribed a means for accomplishing that task by way of rulemaking.  It has authorized this Court to promulgate rules “defin[ing] when a ruling of a district court is final for the purposes of appeal under section 1291,” §2072(c), and “provid[ing] for an appeal of an interlocutory decision to the courts of appeals that is not otherwise provided for” by statute, §1292(e).  The State does not claim that any rule promulgated pursuant to this authority permits interlocutory appeal of the transportation order here.  Instead, the State asks us to create such a rule by court decision, outside of the congressionally prescribed rulemaking process.

															It is true that, in the past, we have occasionally done so under what we have called the “collateral order doctrine.”  That doctrine allows interlocutory appeal from a “small class” of orders that “finally determine claims of right separable from, and collateral to, rights asserted in the action.”  Cohen, 337 U. S., at 546.  But we have repeatedly stated that this doctrine is a “ ‘narrow’ exception [that] should stay that way and never be allowed to swallow the general rule that a party is entitled to a single appeal, to be deferred until final judgment has been entered.”  Digital Equipment Corp. v. Desktop Direct, Inc.,

511 U.S. 863, 868 (1994) (citation omitted); see also Will v. Hallock,

546 U.S. 345, 350 (2006) (“[A]lthough the Court has been asked many times to expand the ‘small class’ of collaterally appealable orders, we have instead kept it narrow and selective in its membership”); Mohawk Industries, Inc. v. Carpenter,

558 U.S. 100, 113 (2009) (“[R]ulemaking, ‘not expansion by court decision,’ [is] the preferred means for determining whether and when prejudgment orders should be immediately appealable”).

															We must therefore exercise caution before extending the collateral order doctrine.  We have “stringent[ly]” limited that doctrine to only those district court orders “[1] that are conclusive, [2] that resolve important questions completely separate from the merits, and [3] that would render such important questions effectively unreviewable on appeal from final judgment in the underlying action.”  Digital Equipment Corp., 511 U. S., at 867–868.

															II

															A

															The Court today extends the collateral order doctrine to a new category of orders, which it describes as “[t]ransportation orders issued under the All Writs Act.”  Ante, at 5, n. 1.  The Court believes these kinds of orders are collateral and therefore immediately appealable because, it says, they “(1) conclusively require transportation; (2) resolve an important question of state sovereignty conceptually distinct from the merits of the prisoner’s claims; and (3) are entirely unreviewable by the time the case has gone to final judgment.”  Ibid. (citation omitted).  I agree that orders like the one at issue here “conclusively require transportation” and are largely “unreviewable by the time the case has gone to final judgment.”  Ibid.  But I do not agree that such orders “resolve an important question of state sovereignty conceptually distinct from the merits of the prisoner’s claims.”  Ibid.  That is so for three reasons.

															First, transportation orders do not appear to me to be especially “important.”  Even if those orders are unreviewable after final judgment, we have said that “the mere identification of some interest that would be ‘irretrievably lost’ has never sufficed,” on its own, to justify interlocutory appeal.  Digital Equipment Corp., 511 U. S., at 872.  Rather, the order must implicate “ ‘a substantial public interest’ or ‘some particular value of a high order.’ ”  Mohawk Industries, Inc., 558 U. S., at 107.  It is difficult to see how transportation orders of the kind at issue here meet that requirement.  The order is analogous to a discovery order because it requires the State to transport a prisoner for medical testing in order to develop evidence relating to the prisoner’s habeas claims.  See ante, at 1, 7–8 (comparing requirements for a transportation order to requirements for discovery and for an evidentiary hearing).  I see no reason why such an order ordinarily should be of greater importance than a discovery order of some other kind.

															We have held that discovery orders are not immediately appealable, even where discovery would require revealing privileged information that, once shared, could not be un-shared if the disclosing party prevailed on appeal after final judgment.  Mohawk Industries, Inc., 558 U. S., at 108–109.  Why should discovery-like transportation orders be immediately appealable when ordinary discovery orders are not?  Neither touches upon substantial public interests.  And, in both instances, the harms of interlocutory appeal are significant while the countervailing benefits are minimal.

															Take first the harms.  As I said above, interlocutory appeals “unduly delay the resolution of district court litigation and needlessly burden the courts of appeals.”  See id., at 112.  In this case, for example, the appeal of the District Court’s transportation order has lasted over two years.  See App. to Pet. for Cert. 33a (order entered March 19, 2020).  If interlocutory appeals were permitted as of right in all similar cases requiring transportation of a prisoner, the resulting delays would impair the ability of district courts to manage their own dockets and supervise trial proceedings.  

															By comparison, the benefits of interlocutory appeal here are small.  District courts, not appellate courts, have “comparative expertise” in deciding when evidentiary development is appropriate and when transportation orders are necessary to facilitate that development.  See Johnson, 515 U. S., at 317.  As a result, interlocutory appeal is unlikely “to bring important error-correcting benefits” in most cases.  Id., at 316. In the rare case where an erroneous transportation order happens to implicate unusually important interests, a State has other avenues for addressing that error.  It can ask district courts to certify a discretionary interlocutory appeal under §1292(b); seek a writ of mandamus; or defy the order and incur a court-imposed sanction, which may then itself be appealed immediately in some cases.  See Mohawk Industries Inc., 558 U. S., at 110–112.  Those avenues—sufficient to protect against errors in discovery, see ibid.—should generally be sufficient for transportation-related errors as well.

															Second, the Court overstates transportation orders’ impact on “state sovereignty.”  See ante, at 5, n. 1.  The Court of Appeals noted respondent’s argument that “discovery orders generally are not appealable under the collateral-order doctrine,” but it distinguished the transportation order at issue here on the ground that it “implicates . . . a federal court’s authority to compel state action.”  11 F. 4th 518, 523 (CA6 2021).  But the mere fact that the appealing party is a State is not, on its own, enough to justify interlocutory appeal.  We have never suggested, for example, that a discovery order against a State is immediately appealable simply because it imposes costs on a sovereign State.  To allow interlocutory appeal on such grounds would create an anomaly: The State would be able to immediately appeal a discovery order entered against it, but an opposing party would not.

															The Court suggests that the transportation order here is not a mere discovery order because it “requir[es] a State to take a convicted felon outside the prison’s walls.”  Ante, at 5, n. 1.  The Court says doing so “creates public safety risks and burdens on the State that cannot be remedied after final judgment.”  Ibid.  But what exactly are those risks?  The order here requires transporting respondent to a medical center—the Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center.  11 F. 4th, at 520.  That medical center is the “official prison hospital,” which “has the security and other infrastructure” to safely accommodate prisoners and does so regularly.  App. to Pet. for Cert. 24a; Tr. of Oral Arg. 40, 57–58.  Respondent tells us that he has personally been transported between the prison and the medical center 16 times without incident.  Id., at 57.

															Other orders might well create similar kinds of risks.  A writ of habeas corpus might require the State to transport a prisoner to court to testify or for trial, see §2241(c)(5), or an order appointing a psychiatrist or other expert to conduct a psychological examination might require the State to allow access to a dangerous prisoner, see Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 35(a).  Would the Court’s logic require that all such orders with security risks be immediately appealable?  That would be a dramatic extension of the collateral order doctrine, which we have said should remain “ ‘narrow,’ ” Digital Equipment Corp., 511 U. S., at 868 (emphasis added).

															Finally, we have also said that some interlocutory appeals “mak[e] unwise use of appellate courts’ time, by forcing them to decide in the context of a less developed record, an issue very similar to one they may well decide anyway later, on a record that will permit a better decision.” Johnson, 515 U. S., at 317.  That warning is applicable here.  The question whether the transportation order was proper under the All Writs Act is not conceptually distinct from the merits of respondent’s habeas claims.  In order to obtain a transportation order, the Court says, a prisoner must show that “the desired evidence would be admissible in connection with a particular claim for relief.”  Ante, at 11.  Of course, at this early stage, a district court’s assessment of that issue is only preliminary because it cannot know for certain what evidence will be revealed.  After the evidence is developed, the court will need to make a final determination of whether it is in fact admissible.  Requiring appellate courts to review both the district court’s preliminary assessment of admissibility on interlocutory appeal and its ultimate assessment of the same question after final judgment is unnecessarily duplicative and inefficient.

															All of these concerns suggest that transportation orders like the one here do not satisfy the requirements for interlocutory appeal under the collateral order doctrine.

															B

															The Court points out in response that “[e]very Court of Appeals to consider the question” has found a transportation order to be immediately appealable.  Ante, at 5, n. 1.  True.  But few Courts of Appeals have been asked to “consider the question.”  The Court cites, over the last five decades, only four cases (besides this one) that have concluded that transportation orders are immediately appealable.  Ibid. (citing Jones v. Lilly, 37 F.3d 964, 965–966 (CA3 1994); Jackson v. Vasquez, 1 F.3d 885, 887–888 (CA9 1993); Ballard v. Spradley, 557 F.2d 476, 479 (CA5 1977); Barnes v. Black, 544 F.3d 807, 810–811 (CA7 2008)).  An average of one decision every decade can hardly be thought to establish a lower court consensus.  A contrary determination here would not disturb settled practice.

															The Court also asserts that, on one occasion, we have previously reviewed a transportation order.  See Pennsylvania Bureau of Correction v. United States Marshals Service,

474 U.S. 34 (1985).  But the precedential value of that decision is limited because the opinion did not discuss the Court of Appeals’ jurisdiction to hear an interlocutory appeal from the order.  See Arbaugh v. Y & H Corp.,

546 U.S. 500, 511 (2006).  It does not set forth a jurisdictional ruling at all.  

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, I would not reach the merits of the questions presented by petitioner.  I respectfully dissent.  
													
