::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-869
::decision_name::  Andy Warhol Foundation for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–869

															_________________

															ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR THE VISUAL ARTS,
INC., PETITIONER v. LYNN GOLDSMITH, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[May 18, 2023]

															

															Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Jackson
joins, concurring.

															The question before us is a narrow one of
statutory interpretation. It concerns the meaning of one of four
factors Congress has instructed courts to consult when a party
invokes the affirmative defense of “fair use” to a
claim of copyright infringement. The statutory factor in question
requires courts to consider “the purpose and character of the
use.” 17 U. S. C. §107(1). The parties
disagree which “purpose” and “character”
counts.

															On the Foundation’s telling, the statute
requires courts to focus on the purpose the creator had in
mind when producing his work and the character of his resulting
work. So what matters in this case is that Andy Warhol intended to
apply a “ ‘new aesthetic’ ” to
Lynn Goldsmith’s photograph and the character of his work
“ ‘transformed’ ” Prince from the
“ ‘vulnerable, uncomfortable
person’ ” depicted in Ms. Goldsmith’s
photograph into “ ‘an iconic, larger-than-life
figure.’ ” Ante, at 9–10;
post, at 7–10, 18 (Kagan, J., dissenting). Because the
purpose and character of Mr. Warhol’s work is so different
from Ms. Goldsmith’s, the Foundation insists, the first
statutory factor points in favor of finding a fair-use affirmative
defense.

															By contrast, on Ms. Goldsmith’s reading of
the law and under the Second Circuit’s approach, the first
fair-use factor requires courts to assess the purpose and character
of the challenged use. Ante, at 21. The Foundation
now owns Mr. Warhol’s image of Prince and it recently sought
to license that image to a magazine looking for a depiction of
Prince to accompany an article about Prince. Ibid. Ms.
Goldsmith seeks to license her copyrighted photograph to exactly
these kinds of buyers. And because the purpose and character of the
Foundation’s challenged use and the purpose and character of
her own protected use overlap so completely, Ms. Goldsmith argues
that the first statutory factor does not support a fair-use
affirmative defense.

															As I see it, the second view of the law is the
better one. Nothing in the copyright statute calls on judges to
speculate about the purpose an artist may have in mind when working
on a particular project. Nothing in the law requires judges to try
their hand at art criticism and assess the aesthetic character of
the resulting work. Instead, the first statutory fair-use factor
instructs courts to focus on “the purpose and character of
the use, including whether such use is of a
commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational
purposes.” §107(1) (emphases added). By its terms,
the law trains our attention on the particular use under challenge.
And it asks us to assess whether the purpose and character of that
use is different from (and thus complements) or is the same as (and
thus substitutes for) a copyrighted work. It’s a
comparatively modest inquiry focused on how and for what reason a
person is using a copyrighted work in the world, not on the moods
of any artist or the aesthetic quality of any creation.

															To my mind, three contextual clues confirm that
this reading of the statutory text is the correct one.

															First, the statutory preamble to all four
fair-use factors instructs courts to assess whether the person
asserting a fair-use defense seeks to “use” a
copyrighted work “for purposes such as criticism,
comment, news reporting, teaching . . . ,
scholarship, or research.” §107 (emphasis added). Once
more, the statute indicates that a court must examine the purpose
of the particular use under challenge, not the artistic purpose
underlying a work. And once more, the statute tasks courts with
asking whether the challenged use serves a different purpose (as,
say, a “criticism” of or “comment” on the
original) or whether it seeks to serve the same purpose (as a
substitute for the original).

															Second, the copyright statute expressly protects
a copyright holder’s exclusive right to create
“derivative works” that “transfor[m]” or
“adap[t]” his original work. §§101, 106(2).
So saying that a later user of a copyrighted work
“transformed” its message and endowed it with a
“new aesthetic” cannot automatically mean he has made
fair use of it. Contra, post, at 1–2, 22–23,
34–36 (Kagan, J., dissenting). To hold otherwise would risk
making a nonsense of the statutory scheme—suggesting that
transformative uses of originals belong to the copyright holder
(under §106) but that others may simultaneously claim those
transformative uses for themselves (under §107). We
aren’t normally in the business of putting a statute
“at war with itself ” in this way. United
States v. American Tobacco Co., 221
U.S. 106, 180 (1911).

															Finally, the fourth fair-use factor requires
courts to assess “the effect of the use upon the potential
market for or value of the copyrighted work.” §107(4).
This Court has described the fourth factor as the “most
important” one. Harper & Row, Publishers, Inc. v.
Nation Enterprises, 471 U.S.
539, 566 (1985). This Court has said, too, that no factor may
“be treated in isolation, one from another.”
Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc., 510 U.S.
569, 578 (1994). Nor does anything in the fourth factor call on
courts to speculate about artistic ambitions or aesthetics.
Instead, it requires courts to ask whether consumers treat a
challenged use “as a market replacement” for a
copyrighted work or a market complement that does not impair demand
for the original. Id., at 591. Reading §107 as a whole,
then, it supplies courts with a sequential chain of questions about
the particular challenged use—starting with its
purpose and character (in the first factor) and
ending with its effect (in the fourth). There is no double
counting here. Contra, post, at 22 (Kagan, J., dissenting).
Instead, the statute proceeds from step to step, asking judges to
assess whether the challenged use (as revealed by its purpose,
character, amount of source material used, and effect) serves as a
complement to or a substitute for a copyrighted work.

															With all this in mind, the Court’s
decision seems to me exactly right. Does Mr. Warhol’s image
seek to depict Prince as a “larger-than-life” icon
while Ms. Goldsmith’s photograph attempts to cast him in a
more “vulnerable” light? See ante, at
28–35; post, at 9–10, 35 (Kagan, J.,
dissenting). Or are the artistic purposes latent in the two images
and their aesthetic character actually more similar than that?
Happily, the law does not require judges to tangle with questions
so far beyond our competence. Instead, the first fair-use factor
requires courts to assess only whether the purpose and character of
the challenged use is the same as a protected use. And here,
the undisputed facts reveal that the Foundation sought to use its
image as a commercial substitute for Ms. Goldsmith’s
photograph. Of course, competitive products often differ in
material respects and a buyer may find these differences reason to
prefer one offering over another. Cf. post, at 10, 18
(Kagan, J., dissenting). But under the first fair-use factor the
salient point is that the purpose and character of the
Foundation’s use involved competition with Ms.
Goldsmith’s image. To know that much is to know the first
fair-use factor favors Ms. Goldsmith.

															It is equally important, however, to acknowledge
what this case does not involve and what the Court does not decide.
Worried about the fate of artists seeking to portray reclining
nudes or papal authorities, or authors hoping to build on classic
literary themes? Post, at 25–35 (Kagan, J.,
dissenting). Worry not. This case does not call on us to strike a
balance between rewarding creators and enabling others to build on
their work. That is Congress’s job. See U. S. Const.,
Art. I, §8, cl. 8. Nor does this case even call on us to
interpret and apply many of the reticulated elements of the
Copyright Act that Congress has adopted to balance these competing
interests. Our only job today is to interpret and apply faithfully
one statutory factor among many Congress has deemed relevant to the
affirmative defense of fair use.

															That observation points the way to another. The
Court today does not even decide whether the Foundation’s
image of Prince infringes on Ms. Goldsmith’s copyright. To
uphold a claim of infringement under the Copyright Act, a court
must find the defendant copied elements of the
plaintiff ’s work that are themselves original. Feist
Publications, Inc. v. Rural Telephone Service Co.,
499 U.S.
340, 361 (1991). As part of this process, a court must isolate
and vindicate only the truly original elements of a copyrighted
work. See 2 Nimmer on Copyright §8.01[D] (2022). The plaintiff
must usually show not only a similarity but a
“substantial” similarity between the allegedly
infringing work and the original elements of his own copyrighted
work. See 4 Nimmer on Copyright §13.03[A] (2023). And even
when two works are substantially similar, if both the
plaintiff ’s and the defendant’s works copy from a
third source (reworking, say, a traditional artistic or literary
theme), a claim for infringement generally will not succeed. See 2
Nimmer on Copyright §8.01[C]. In this case, we address none of
these questions or other elements of the infringement standard
designed to ensure room for later artists to build on the work of
their predecessors. The district court concluded that it
“need not address” the merits of Ms. Goldsmith’s
infringement claim because the Foundation could prevail at summary
judgment on its affirmative defense of fair use. 382
F. Supp. 3d 312, 324 (SDNY 2019). The Second Circuit
reversed, focused primarily on the district court’s
“application of the four fair-use factors.” 11
F. 4th 26, 32 (2021); see id., at 36–52. And this
Court granted review to decide only the question of fair use and
only the role of a single factor in that affirmative defense. 596
U. S. ___ (2022).

															Last but hardly least, while our interpretation
of the first fair-use factor does not favor the Foundation in this
case, it may in others. If, for example, the Foundation had sought
to display Mr. Warhol’s image of Prince in a nonprofit museum
or a for-profit book commenting on 20th-century art, the purpose
and character of that use might well point to fair use. But those
cases are not this case. Before us, Ms. Goldsmith challenges only
the Foundation’s effort to use its portrait as a commercial
substitute for her own protected photograph in sales to magazines
looking for images of Prince to accompany articles about the
musician. And our only point today is that, while the Foundation
may often have a fair-use defense for Mr. Warhol’s work, that
does not mean it always will. Under the law Congress has given us,
each challenged use must be assessed on its own terms.

													
