::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 21-869
::decision_name::  Andy Warhol Foundation for Visual Arts, Inc. v. Goldsmith
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal revision before
publication in the United States Reports. Readers are requested to
notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United
States, Washington, D. C. 20543, pio@supremecourt.gov, of any
typographical or other formal errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________
No. 21-869
_________________


															ANDY WARHOL FOUNDATION FOR THE VISUAL ARTS, INC., PETITIONER
v. LYNN GOLDSMITH, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of appeals for
the second circuit

															[May 18, 2023]

															Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.

															This copyright case involves not one, but two artists. The
first, Andy Warhol, is well known. His images of products like
Campbell's soup cans and of celebrities like Marilyn Monroe appear
in museums around the world. Warhol's contribution to contemporary
art is undeniable.

															The second, Lynn Goldsmith, is less well known. But she too was
a trailblazer. Goldsmith began a career in rock-and-roll
photography when there were few women in the genre. Her
award-winning concert and portrait images, however, shot to the
top. Goldsmith's work appeared in Life, Time, Rolling Stone, and
People magazines, not to mention the National Portrait Gallery and
the Museum of Modern Art. She captured some of the 20th century's
greatest rock stars: Bob Dylan, Mick Jagger, Patti Smith, Bruce
Springsteen, and, as relevant here, Prince.

															In 1984, Vanity Fair sought to license one of Goldsmith's Prince
photographs for use as an "artist reference." The magazine wanted
the photograph to help illustrate a story about the musician.
Goldsmith agreed, on the condition

															that the use of her photo be for "one time" only. 1 App. 85. The
artist Vanity Fair hired was Andy Warhol. Warhol made a silkscreen
using Goldsmith's photo, and Vanity Fair published the resulting
image alongside an article about Prince. The magazine credited
Goldsmith for the "source photograph," and it paid her $400. 2
id., at 323, 325-326.

															Warhol, however, did not stop there. From Goldsmith's
photograph, he derived 15 additional works. Later, the Andy Warhol
Foundation for the Visual Arts, Inc. (AWF) licensed one of those
works to Condé Nast, again for the purpose of
illustrating a magazine story about Prince. AWF came away with
$10,000. Goldsmith received nothing.

															When Goldsmith informed AWF that she believed its use of her
photograph infringed her copyright, AWF sued her. The District
Court granted summary judgment for AWF on its assertion of "fair
use," 17 U. S. C. §107, but the Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit reversed. In this Court, the sole question
presented is whether the first fair use factor, "the purpose and
character of the use, including whether such use is of a commercial
nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes,"
§107(1), weighs in favor of AWF's recent commercial
licensing to Condé Nast. On that narrow issue, and
limited to the challenged use, the Court agrees with the Second
Circuit: The first factor favors Goldsmith, not AWF.

															I

															Lynn Goldsmith is a professional photographer. Her specialty is
concert and portrait photography of musicians. At age 16, Goldsmith
got one of her first shots: an image of the Beatles' "trendy boots"
before the band performed live on The Ed Sullivan Show. S. Michel,
Rock Portraits, N. Y. Times, Dec. 2, 2007, p. G64. Within 10 years,
Goldsmith had photographed everyone from Led Zeppelin to James
Brown (the latter in concert in Kinshasa, no less). At that time,
Goldsmith "had few female peers." Ibid. But she was a
self-starter. She quickly became "a leading rock photographer" in
an era "when women on the scene were largely dismissed as
groupies." Ibid.

															In 1981, Goldsmith convinced Newsweek magazine to hire her to
photograph Prince Rogers Nelson, then an "up and coming" and "hot
young musician." 2 App. 315. Newsweek agreed, and Goldsmith took
photos of Prince in concert at the Palladium in New York City and
in her studio on West 36th Street. Newsweek ran one of the concert
photos, together with an article titled " 'The Naughty Prince of
Rock.' " Id., at 320. Goldsmith retained the other photos.
She holds copyright in all of them.

															One of Goldsmith's studio photographs, a black and white
portrait of Prince, is the original copyrighted work at issue in
this case. See fig. 1, infra.



															Figure 1. A black and white portrait
photograph of Prince taken in 1981 by Lynn Goldsmith.


															In 1984, Goldsmith, through her agency, licensed that photograph
to Vanity Fair to serve as an "artist reference for an
illustration" in the magazine. 1 App. 85. The terms of the license
were that the illustration was "to be published in Vanity Fair
November 1984 issue. It can appear one time full page and one time
under one quarter page. No other usage right granted." Ibid.
Goldsmith was to receive $400 and a source credit.

															To make the illustration, Vanity Fair hired pop artist Andy
Warhol. Warhol was already a major figure in American art, known
among other things for his silkscreen portraits of
celebrities.[1] From Goldsmith's photograph,
Warhol created a silkscreen portrait of Prince, which appeared
alongside an article about Prince in the November 1984 issue of
Vanity Fair. See fig. 2, infra. The article, titled "Purple
Fame," is primarily about the "sexual style" of the new celebrity
and his music. Vanity Fair, Nov. 1984, p. 66. Goldsmith received
her $400 fee, and Vanity Fair credited her for the "source
photograph." 2 App. 323, 325-326. Warhol received an unspecified
amount.



															Figure 2. A purple silkscreen portrait
of Prince created in 1984 by Andy Warhol to illustrate an article
in Vanity Fair.


															In addition to the single illustration
authorized by the Vanity Fair license, Warhol created 15 other
works based on Goldsmith's photograph: 13 silkscreen prints and two
pencil drawings. The works are collectively referred to as the
"Prince Series." See Appendix, infra. Goldsmith did not know
about the Prince Series until 2016, when she saw the image of an
orange silkscreen portrait of Prince ("Orange Prince") on the cover
of a magazine published by Vanity Fair's parent company,
Condé Nast. See fig. 3, infra.



															Figure 3. An orange silkscreen portrait of Prince on the cover
of a special edition magazine published in 2016 by
Condé Nast.


															By that time, Warhol had died, and the Prince Series had passed
to the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, Inc. AWF no
longer possesses the works,[2] but it asserts
copy- right in them. It has licensed images of the works for
commercial and editorial uses. In particular, after Prince died in
2016, Condé Nast contacted AWF about the possibility
of reusing the 1984 Vanity Fair image for a special edition
magazine that would commemorate Prince. Once AWF informed
Condé Nast about the other Prince Series images,
however, Condé Nast obtained a license to publish
Orange Prince instead. The magazine, titled "The Genius of Prince,"
is a tribute to "Prince Rogers Nelson, 1958-2016." It is "devoted
to Prince." 2 App. 352. Condé Nast paid AWF $10,000
for the license. Goldsmith received neither a fee nor a source
credit.

															Remember that Goldsmith, too, had licensed her Prince images to
magazines such as Newsweek, to accompany a story about the
musician, and Vanity Fair, to serve as an artist reference. But
that was not all. Between 1981 and 2016, Goldsmith's photos of
Prince appeared on or between the covers of People, Readers Digest,
Guitar World, and Musician magazines. See, e.g., fig. 4,
infra.



															Figure 4. One of Lynn Goldsmith's photographs of Prince on the
cover of Musician magazine.


															People magazine, in fact, paid Goldsmith $1,000 to use one of
her copyrighted photographs in a special collector's edition,
"Celebrating Prince: 1958-2016," just after Prince died. People's
tribute, like Condé Nast's, honors the life and music
of Prince. Other magazines, including Rolling Stone and Time, also
released special editions. See fig. 5, infra. All of them
depicted Prince on the cover. All of them used a copyrighted
photograph in service of that object. And all of them (except
Condé Nast) credited the photographer.




															Figure 5. Four special edition magazines commemorating Prince
after he died in 2016.

When Goldsmith saw Orange Prince on the cover of
Condé Nast's special edition magazine, she recognized
her work. "It's the photograph," she later testified. 1 App. 290.
Orange Prince crops, flattens, traces, and colors the photo but
otherwise does not alter it. See fig. 6,
infra.


Figure 6. Warhol's orange silkscreen portrait of Prince
superimposed on Goldsmith's portrait photograph.


															Goldsmith notified AWF of her belief that it had infringed her
copyright. AWF then sued Goldsmith and her agency for a declaratory
judgment of noninfringement or, in the alternative, fair use.
Goldsmith counterclaimed for infringement.

															The District Court granted summary judgment for AWF. 382 F.
Supp. 3d 312, 316 (SDNY 2019). The court considered the four fair
use factors enumerated in17 U. S. C. §107 and held that
the Prince Series works made fair use of Goldsmith's photograph. As
to the first factor, the works were "transformative" because,
looking at them and the photograph "side-by-side," they "have a
different character, give Goldsmith's photograph a new expression,
and employ new aesthetics with creative and communicative results
distinct from Goldsmith's." 382 F. Supp. 3d, at 325-326 (internal
quotation marks and alterations omitted). In particular, the works
"can reasonably be perceived to have transformed Prince from a
vulnerable, uncomfortable person to an iconic, larger-than-life
figure," such that "each Prince Series work is immediately
recognizable as a 'Warhol' rather than as a photograph of Prince."
Id., at 326. Although the second factor, the nature of
Goldsmith's copyrighted work (creative and unpublished), "would
ordinarily weigh in [her] favor . . . , this factor [was] of
limited importance because the Prince Series works are
transformative." Id., at 327. The third factor, the amount
and substantiality of the portion used in relation to the
copyrighted work, favored AWF because, according to the District
Court, "Warhol removed nearly all the photograph's protectible
elements in creating the Prince Series." Id., at 330.
Finally, the fourth factor likewise favored AWF because "the Prince
Series works are not market substitutes that have harmed-or have
the potential to harm-Goldsmith." Id., at 331.

															The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed and
remanded. 11 F. 4th 26, 54 (2021). It held that all four fair use
factors favored Goldsmith. On the first factor, "the purpose and
character of the use," §107(1), the Court of Appeals
rejected the notion that "any secondary work that adds a new
aesthetic or new expression to its source material is necessarily
transformative." Id., at 38-39. The question was, instead,
"whether the secondary work's use of its source material is in
service of a fundamentally different and new artistic purpose and
character." Id., at 42 (internal quotation marks omitted).
Such "transformative purpose and character must, at bare minimum,
comprise something more than the imposition of another artist's
style on the primary work." Ibid. Here, however, "the
overarching purpose and function of the two works at issue . . . is
identical, not merely in the broad sense that they are created as
works of visual art, but also in the narrow but essential sense
that they are portraits of the same person." Ibid. (footnote
omitted). The Court of Appeals also rejected the District Court's
logic that " 'each Prince Series work' " is transformative because
it " 'is immediately recognizable as a "Warhol," ' " which the
Court of Appeals believed would "create a celebrity-plagiarist
privilege." Id., at 43; see also ibid. ("[T]he fact
that Martin Scorsese's recent film The Irishman is
recognizably 'a Scorsese' does not absolve him of the obligation to
license the original book" (some internal quotation marks and
alterations omitted)).

															On the other three factors, the Court of Appeals found that the
creative and unpublished nature of Goldsmith's photograph favored
her, id., at 45; that the amount and substantiality of the
portion taken (here, "the 'essence' " of the photograph) was not
reasonable in relation to the purpose of the use, id., at
45-47; and that AWF's commercial licensing encroached on
Goldsmith's protected market to license her photograph "to
publications for editorial purposes and to other artists to create
derivative works," id., at 48-51.[3] The
court noted that there was "no material dispute that both Goldsmith
and AWF have sought to license (and indeed have successfully
licensed) their respective depictions of Prince to popular print
magazines to accompany articles about him." Id., at 49
(footnote omitted).

															Finally, although the District Court had not reached the issue,
the Court of Appeals rejected AWF's argument that the Prince Series
works were not substantially similar to Goldsmith's photograph. See
id., at 52-54.

															Judge Jacobs concurred. He stressed that the Court of Appeals'
holding "d[id] not consider, let alone decide, whether the
infringement here encumbers the original Prince Series works."
Id., at 54. Instead, "the only use at issue" was "the
Foundation's commercial licensing" of images of the Prince Series.
Id., at 55.

															This Court granted certiorari. 596 U. S. ___ (2022).

															II

															AWF does not challenge the Court of Appeals' holding that
Goldsmith's photograph and the Prince Series works are
substantially similar. The question here is whether AWF can defend
against a claim of copyright infringement because it made "fair
use" of Goldsmith's photograph.17 U. S. C. §107.

															Although the Court of Appeals analyzed each fair use factor, the
only question before this Court is whether the court below
correctly held that the first factor, "the purpose and character of
the use, including whether such use is of a commercial nature or is
for nonprofit educational purposes," §107(1), weighs in
Goldsmith's favor. AWF contends that the Prince Series works are
"transformative," and that the first factor therefore weighs in its
favor, because the works convey a different meaning or message than
the photograph. Brief for Petitioner 33. The Court of Appeals
erred, according to AWF, by not considering that new expression.
Id., at 47-48.

															But the first fair use factor instead focuses on whether an
allegedly infringing use has a further purpose or different
character, which is a matter of degree, and the degree of
difference must be weighed against other considerations, like
commercialism. Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music,
Inc.,510 U.S.
569, 579 (1994). Although new expression may be relevant to
whether a copying use has a sufficiently distinct purpose or
character, it is not, without more, dispositive of the first
factor.

															Here, the specific use of Goldsmith's photograph alleged to
infringe her copyright is AWF's licensing of Orange Prince to
Condé Nast. As portraits of Prince used to depict
Prince in magazine stories about Prince, the original photograph
and AWF's copying use of it share substantially the same purpose.
Moreover, the copying use is of a commercial nature. Even though
Orange Prince adds new expression to Goldsmith's photograph, as the
District Court found, this Court agrees with the Court of Appeals
that, in the context of the challenged use, the first fair use
factor still favors Goldsmith.

															A

															The Copyright Act encourages creativity by granting to the
author of an original work "a bundle of exclusive rights."
Harper & Row, Publishers, Inc. v. Nation
Enterprises,471 U.S.
539, 546 (1985); see U. S. Const., Art. I, §8, cl.
8 ("The Congress shall have Power . . . To Promote the Progress of
Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors
and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and
Discoveries"). That bundle includes the rights to reproduce the
copyrighted work, to prepare derivative works, and, in the case of
pictorial or graphic works, to display the copyrighted work
publicly.17 U. S. C. §106.

															The Act, however, "reflects a balance of competing claims upon
the public interest: Creative work is to be encouraged and
rewarded, but private motivation must ultimately serve the cause of
promoting broad public availability of literature, music, and the
other arts." Twentieth Century Music Corp. v.
Aiken,422 U.S.
151, 156 (1975). Copyright thus trades off the benefits of
incentives to create against the costs of restrictions on copying.
The Act, for example, limits the duration of copyright,
§§302-305, as required by the Constitution;
makes facts and ideas uncopyrightable, §102; and limits
the scope of copyright owners' exclusive rights,
§§107-122.

															This balancing act between creativity and availability
(including for use in new works) is reflected in one such
limitation, the defense of "fair use." In 1976, Congress codified
the common-law doctrine of fair use in §107, which
provides: "[T]he fair use of a copyrighted work, . . . for purposes
such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching . . . ,
scholarship, or research, is not an infringement of copy- right."
To determine whether a particular use is "fair," the statute sets
out four factors to be considered:

															"(1) the purpose and character of the use, including whether
such use is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational
purposes;

															"(2) the nature of the copyrighted work;

															"(3) the amount and substantiality of the portion used in
relation to the copyrighted work as a whole; and

															"(4) the effect of the use upon the potential market for or
value of the copyrighted work."

															The fair use doctrine "permits courts to avoid rigid application
of the copyright statute when, on occasion, it would stifle the
very creativity which that law is designed to foster."
Stewart v. Abend,495 U.S.
207, 236 (1990) (internal quotation marks omitted). The Act's
fair use provision, in turn, "set[s] forth general principles, the
application of which requires judicial balancing, depending upon
relevant circumstances." Google LLC v. Oracle America,
Inc., 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 14). Because
those principles apply across a wide range of copyrightable
material, from books to photographs to software, fair use is a
"flexible" concept, and "its application may well vary depending on
context." Id., at ___ (slip op., at 15). For example, in
applying the fair use provision, "copyright's protection may be
stronger where the copyrighted material . . . serves an artistic
rather than a utilitarian function." Ibid.

															1

															The first fair use factor is "the purpose and character of the
use, including whether such use is of a commercial nature or is for
nonprofit educational purposes." §107(1). This factor
considers the reasons for, and nature of, the copier's use of an
original work. The "central" question it asks is "whether the new
work merely 'supersede[s] the objects' of the original creation . .
. ('supplanting' the original), or instead adds something new, with
a further purpose or different character." Campbell, 510 U.
S., at 579 (quoting Folsom v. Marsh, 
9 F. Cas. 342, 348 (No. 4,901) (CC Mass. 1841) (Story, J.), and
Harper & Row, 471 U. S., at 562). In that way, the first
factor relates to the problem of substitution-copyright's
bête noire. The use of an original work to achieve a
purpose that is the same as, or highly similar to, that of the
original work is more likely to substitute for, or " 'supplan[t],'
" the work, ibid.

															Consider the "purposes" listed in the preamble paragraph of
§107: "criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching . .
. , scholarship, or research." Although the examples given are "
'illustrative and not limitative,' " they reflect "the sorts of
copying that courts and Congress most commonly ha[ve] found to be
fair uses," and so may guide the first factor inquiry.
Campbell, 510 U. S., at 577-578 (quoting §101).
As the Court of Appeals observed, the "examples are easily
understood," as they contemplate the use of an original work to
"serv[e] a manifestly different purpose from the [work] itself." 11
F. 4th, at 37. Criticism of a work, for instance, ordinarily does
not supersede the objects of, or supplant, the work. Rather, it
uses the work to serve a distinct end.[4]

															Not every instance will be clear cut, however. Whether a use
shares the purpose or character of an original work, or instead has
a further purpose or different character, is a matter of degree.
Most copying has some further purpose, in the sense that copying is
socially useful ex post. Many secondary works add something
new. That alone does not render such uses fair. Rather, the first
factor (which is just one factor in a larger analysis) asks
"whether and to what extent" the use at issue has a purpose
or character different from the original. Campbell, 510 U.
S., at 579 (emphasis added). The larger the difference, the more
likely the first factor weighs in favor of fair use. The smaller
the difference, the less likely.

															A use that has a further purpose or different character is said
to be " 'transformative.' " Ibid. (quoting P. Leval, Toward
a Fair Use Standard, 103 Harv. L. Rev. 1105, 1111 (1990)
(hereinafter Leval)). As before, "transformativeness" is a matter
of degree. See Campbell, 510 U. S., at 579. That is
important because the word "transform," though not included in
§107, appears elsewhere in the Copyright Act. The
statute defines derivative works, which the copyright owner has
"the exclusive righ[t]" to prepare, §106(2), to include
"any other form in which a work may be recast, transformed, or
adapted," §101. In other words, the owner has a right
to derivative transformations of her work. Such transformations may
be substantial, like the adaptation of a book into a movie. To be
sure, this right is "[s]ubject to" fair use. §106; see
also §107. The two are not mutually exclusive. But an
overbroad concept of transformative use, one that includes any
further purpose, or any different character, would narrow the
copyright owner's exclusive right to create derivative works. To
preserve that right, the degree of transformation required to make
"transformative" use of an original must go beyond that required to
qualify as a derivative.[5]

															For example, this Court in Campbell considered whether
parody may be fair use. In holding that it may, the Court explained
that "parody has an obvious claim to transformative value" because
"it can provide social benefit, by shedding light on an earlier
work, and, in the process, creating a new one." 510 U. S., at 579.
The use at issue in Campbell was 2 Live Crew's copying of
certain lyrics and musical elements from Roy Orbison's song, "Oh,
Pretty Woman," to create a rap derivative titled "Pretty Woman."
Without a doubt, 2 Live Crew transformed Orbison's song by adding
new lyrics and musical elements, such that "Pretty Woman" had a new
message and different aesthetic than "Oh, Pretty Woman." Indeed,
the whole genre of music changed from rock ballad to rap. That was
not enough for the first factor to weigh in favor of fair use,
however. The Court found it necessary to determine whether 2 Live
Crew's transformation of Orbison's song rose to the level of
parody, a distinct purpose of commenting on the original or
criticizing it. See id., at 580-583.

															Distinguishing between parody (which targets an author or work
for humor or ridicule) and satire (which ridicules society but does
not necessarily target an author or work), the Court further
explained that "[p]arody needs to mimic an original to make its
point, and so has some claim to use the creation of its victim's
(or collective victims') imagination, whereas satire can stand on
its own two feet and so requires justification for the very act of
borrowing." Id., at 580-581. More generally, when
"commentary has no critical bearing on the substance or style of
the original composition, . . . the claim to fairness in borrowing
from another's work diminishes accordingly (if it does not vanish),
and other factors, like the extent of its commerciality, loom
larger." Id., at 580; see also id., at 597 (Kennedy,
J., concurring).

															This discussion illustrates two important points: First, the
fact that a use is commercial as opposed to nonprofit is an
additional "element of the first factor." Id., at 584. The
commercial nature of the use is not dispositive. Ibid.;
Google, 593 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 27). But it is
relevant. As the Court explained in Campbell, it is to be
weighed against the degree to which the use has a further purpose
or different character. See 510 U. S., at 579 ("[T]he more
transformative the new work, the less will be the significance of
other factors, like commercialism, that may weigh against a finding
of fair use"); see also id., at 580, 585.[6]

															Second, the first factor also relates to the justification for
the use. In a broad sense, a use that has a distinct purpose is
justified because it furthers the goal of copyright, namely, to
promote the progress of science and the arts, without diminishing
the incentive to create. See id., at 579; Authors
Guild v. Google, Inc., 804 F.3d 202, 214 (CA2 2015)
(Leval, J.) ("The more the appropriator is using the copied
material for new, transformative purposes, the more it serves
copyright's goal of enriching public knowledge and the less likely
it is that the appropriation will serve as a substitute for the
original or its plausible derivatives, shrinking the protected
market opportunities of the copyrighted work"). A use that shares
the purpose of a copyrighted work, by contrast, is more likely to
provide "the public with a substantial substitute for matter
protected by the [copyright owner's] interests in the original
wor[k] or derivatives of [it]," id., at 207, which
undermines the goal of copyright.

															In a narrower sense, a use may be justified because copy- ing is
reasonably necessary to achieve the user's new purpose. Parody, for
example, "needs to mimic an original to make its point."
Campbell, 510 U. S., at 580-581. Similarly, other commentary
or criticism that targets an original work may have compelling
reason to " 'conjure up' " the original by borrowing from it.
Id., at 588.[7] An independent
justification like this is particularly relevant to assessing fair
use where an original work and copying use share the same or highly
similar purposes, or where wide dissemination of a secondary work
would otherwise run the risk of substitution for the original or
licensed derivatives of it. See id., at 580, n. 14;
Harper & Row, 471 U. S., at 557. Once again, the
question of justification is one of degree. See Leval 1111 ("[I]t
is not sufficient simply to conclude whether or not justification
exists. The question remains how powerful, or persuasive, is the
justification, because the court must weigh the strength of the
secondary user's justification against factors favoring the
copyright owner").

															In sum, the first fair use factor considers whether the use of a
copyrighted work has a further purpose or different character,
which is a matter of degree, and the degree of

															difference must be balanced against the commercial nature of the
use. If an original work and a secondary use share the same or
highly similar purposes, and the secondary use is of a commercial
nature, the first factor is likely to weigh against fair use,
absent some other justification for copying.[8]

															2

															The fair use provision, and the first factor in particular,
requires an analysis of the specific "use" of a copyrighted work
that is alleged to be "an infringement." §107. The same
copying may be fair when used for one purpose but not another. See
Campbell, 510 U. S., at 585 (contrasting the use of a
copyrighted work "to advertise a product, even in a parody," with
"the sale of a parody for its own sake, let alone one performed a
single time by students in school"); Sony Corp. of America
v. Universal City Studios, Inc.,464
U.S. 417, 449-451 (1984) (contrasting the recording of TV

															"for a commercial or profit-making purpose" with "private home
use").

															Here, Goldsmith's copyrighted photograph has been used in
multiple ways: After Goldsmith licensed the photograph to Vanity
Fair to serve as an artist reference, Warhol used the photograph to
create the Vanity Fair illustration and the other Prince Series
works. Vanity Fair then used the photograph, pursuant to the
license, when it published Warhol's illustration in 1984. Finally,
AWF used the photograph when it licensed an image of Warhol's
Orange Prince to Condé Nast in 2016. Only that last
use, however, AWF's commercial licensing of Orange Prince to
Condé Nast, is alleged to be infringing.[9] We limit our analysis accordingly. In particular, the
Court expresses no opinion as to the creation, display, or sale of
any of the original Prince Series works.[10]

															A typical use of a celebrity photograph is to accompany stories
about the celebrity, often in magazines. For example, Goldsmith
licensed her photographs of Prince to illustrate stories about
Prince in magazines such as Newsweek, Vanity Fair, and People.
Supra, at 3-6. She even licensed her photographs for that
purpose after Prince died in 2016. Supra, at 7. A
photographer may also license her creative work to serve as a
reference for an artist, like Goldsmith did in 1984 when Vanity
Fair wanted an image of Prince created by Warhol to illustrate an
article about Prince. As noted by the Court of Appeals, Goldsmith
introduced "uncontroverted" evidence "that photographers generally
license others to create stylized derivatives of their work in the
vein of the Prince Series." 11 F. 4th, at 50; see 2 App. 291-299.
In fact, Warhol himself paid to license photographs for some of his
artistic renditions. Such licenses, for photographs or derivatives
of them, are how photographers like Goldsmith make a living. They
provide an economic incentive to create original works, which is
the goal of copy- right.

															In 2016, AWF licensed an image of Orange Prince to
Condé Nast to appear on the cover of a commemorative
edition magazine about Prince. The edition, titled "The Genius of
Prince," celebrates the life and work of "Prince Rogers Nelson,
1958-2016." It is undisputed here that the edition is "devoted to
Prince." 2 App. 352. In addition to AWF's image on the cover, the
magazine contains numerous concert and studio photographs of
Prince. In that context, the purpose of the image is substantially
the same as that of Goldsmith's photograph. Both are portraits of
Prince used in magazines to illustrate stories about
Prince.[11] Such "environment[s]" are not
"distinct and different." Google, 593

															U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 26). AWF's licensing of the Orange
Prince image thus " 'supersede[d] the objects,' " Campbell,
510 U. S., at 579, i.e., shared the objectives, of
Goldsmith's photograph, even if the two were not perfect
substitutes.[12]

															The use also "is of a commercial nature." §107(1).
Just as Goldsmith licensed her photograph to Vanity Fair for $400,
AWF licensed Orange Prince to Condé Nast for $10,000.
The undisputed commercial character of AWF's use, though not
dispositive, "tends to weigh against a finding of fair use."
Harper & Row, 471 U. S., at 562.[13]

															Taken together, these two elements-that Goldsmith's photograph
and AWF's 2016 licensing of Orange Prince share substantially the
same purpose, and that AWF's use of Goldsmith's photo was of a
commercial nature-counsel against fair use, absent some other
justification for copying. That is, although a use's
transformativeness may outweigh its commercial character, here,
both elements point in the same direction.[14]

															The foregoing does not mean, however, that derivative works
borrowing heavily from an original cannot be fair uses. In
Google, the Court suggested that "[a]n 'artistic painting'
might, for example, fall within the scope of fair use even though
it precisely replicates a copyrighted 'advertising logo to make a
comment about consumerism.' " 593 U. S., at ___-___ (slip op., at
24-25) (quoting 4 M. Nimmer & D. Nimmer, Copyright
§13.05[A][1][b] (2019), in turn quoting N. Netanel,
Making Sense of Fair Use, 15 Lewis & Clark L. Rev. 715, 746
(2011) (some internal quotation marks omitted)). That suggestion
refers to Warhol's works that incorporate advertising logos, such
as the Campbell's Soup Cans series. See fig. 7, infra.



															Figure 7. A print based on the Campbell's soup can, one of
Warhol's works that replicates a copyrighted advertising
logo.


															Yet not all of Warhol's works, nor all uses of them, give rise
to the same fair use analysis. In fact, Soup Cans well illustrates
the distinction drawn here. The purpose of Campbell's logo is to
advertise soup. Warhol's canvases do not share that purpose.
Rather, the Soup Cans series uses Campbell's copyrighted work for
an artistic commentary on consumerism, a purpose that is orthogonal
to advertising soup. The use therefore does not supersede the
objects of the advertising logo.[15]

															Moreover, a further justification for Warhol's use of Campbell's
logo is apparent. His Soup Cans series targets the logo. That is,
the original copyrighted work is, at least in part, the object of
Warhol's commentary. It is the very nature of Campbell's
copyrighted logo-well known to the public, designed to be
reproduced, and a symbol of an every- day item for mass
consumption-that enables the commentary. Hence, the use of the
copyrighted work not only serves a completely different purpose, to
comment on consumerism rather than to advertise soup, it also
"conjures up" the original work to "she[d] light" on the work
itself, not just the subject of the work. Campbell, 510 U.
S., at 579, 588.[16] Here, by contrast, AWF's
use of Goldsmith's photograph does not target the photograph, nor
has AWF offered another compelling justification for the use. See
infra, at 34-35, and nn. 20-21.

															B

															AWF contends, however, that the purpose and character of its use
of Goldsmith's photograph weighs in favor of fair use because
Warhol's silkscreen image of the photograph, like the Campbell's
Soup Cans series, has a new meaning or message. The District Court,
for example, understood the Prince Series works to portray Prince
as "an iconic, larger-than-life figure." 382 F. Supp. 3d, at 326.
AWF also asserts that the works are a comment on celebrity. In
particular, "Warhol's Prince Series conveys the dehumanizing nature
of celebrity." Brief for Petitioner 44. According to AWF, that new
meaning or message, which the Court of Appeals ignored, makes the
use "transformative" in the fair use sense. See id., at
44-48. We disagree.

															1

															Campbell did describe a transformative use as one that
"alter[s] the first [work] with new expression, meaning, or
message." 510 U. S., at 579; see also Google, 593 U. S., at
___ (slip op., at 24). That description paraphrased Judge Leval's
law review article, which referred to "new information, new
aesthetics, new insights and understandings." Leval 1111. (Judge
Leval contrasted such additions with secondary uses that "merely
repackag[e]" the original. Ibid.) But Campbell cannot
be read to mean that §107(1) weighs in favor of any use
that adds some new expression, meaning, or message.

															Otherwise, "transformative use" would swallow the copyright
owner's exclusive right to prepare derivative works. Many
derivative works, including musical arrangements, film and stage
adaptions, sequels, spinoffs, and others that "recast, transfor[m]
or adap[t]" the original, §101, add new expression,
meaning or message, or provide new information, new aesthetics, new
insights and understandings. That is an intractable problem for
AWF's interpretation of transformative use. The first fair use
factor would not weigh in favor of a commercial remix of Prince's
"Purple Rain" just because the remix added new expression or had a
different aesthetic. A film or musical adaptation, like that of
Alice Walker's The Color Purple, might win awards for its
"significant creative contribution"; alter the meaning of a classic
novel; and add "important new expression," such as images,
performances, original music, and lyrics. Post, at 11, 23
(Kagan, J., dissenting) (internal quotation marks omitted). But
that does not in itself dispense with the need for
licensing.[17]

															Campbell is again instructive. 2 Live Crew's version of
Orbison's song easily conveyed a new meaning or message. It also
had a different aesthetic. Yet the Court went further, examining
whether and to what extent 2 Live Crew's song had the parodic
purpose of "commenting on the original or criticizing it." 510 U.
S., at 583. Parody is, of course, a kind of message. Moreover, the
Court considered what the words of the songs might have meant to
determine whether parody "reasonably could be perceived."
Ibid. But new meaning or message was not sufficient. If it
had been, the Court could have made quick work of the first fair
use factor. Instead, meaning or message was simply relevant to
whether the new use served a purpose distinct from the original, or
instead superseded its objects. That was, and is, the "central"
question under the first factor. Id., at 579.

															The dissent commits the same interpretive error as AWF: It
focuses on Campbell's paraphrase, yet ignores the rest of
that decision's careful reasoning. Indeed, upon reading the
dissent, someone might be surprised to learn that Campbell
was about parody at all. Had expert testimony confirmed the obvious
fact that 2 Live Crew's "Pretty Woman" differed in aesthetics and
meaning from Orbison's original, that would have been the end of
the dissent's analysis. See post, at 14-17 (opinion of
Kagan, J.). Not the Court's, however. Campbell was the
culmination of a long line of cases and scholarship about parody's
claim to fairness in borrowing. "For purposes of copyright law,"
the Court explained, "the heart of any parodist's claim to quote
from existing material is the use of some elements of a prior
author's composition to create a new one that, at least in part,
comments on that author's works." 510 U. S., at 580.
Campbell thus drew a nuanced distinction between parody and
satire: While parody cannot function unless it conjures up the
original, "satire can stand on its own two feet and so requires
justification for . . . borrowing." Id., at 580-581. The
objective meaning or message of 2 Live Crew's song was relevant to
this inquiry into the reasons for copying, but any "new expression,
meaning, or message" was not the test.[18]

															What role meaning or message played in the Court of Appeals'
analysis here is not entirely clear. The court correctly rejected
the idea "that any secondary work that adds a new aesthetic or new
expression to its source material is necessarily transformative."
11 F. 4th, at 38-39. It also appeared correctly to accept that
meaning or message is relevant to, but not dispositive of, purpose.
See id., at 41 ("[T]he secondary work itself must reasonably
be perceived as embodying a distinct artistic purpose, one that
conveys a new meaning or message separate from its source
material"); id., at 42 ("[T]he judge must examine whether
the secondary work's use of its source material is in service of a
fundamentally different and new artistic purpose and character,
[which] must, at a bare minimum, comprise something more than the
imposition of another artist's style on the primary work . . . "
(internal quotation marks omitted)).

															Elsewhere, however, the Court of Appeals stated that "the
district judge should not assume the role of art critic and seek to
ascertain the intent behind or meaning of the works at issue."
Id., at 41. That statement is correct in part. A court
should not attempt to evaluate the artistic significance of a
particular work. See Bleistein v. Donaldson Lithographing
Co.,188 U.S.
239, 251 (1903) (Holmes, J.) ("It would be a dangerous
undertaking for persons trained only to the law to constitute
themselves final judges of the worth of [a work], outside of the
narrowest and most obvious limits").[19] Nor
does the subjective intent of the user (or the subjective
interpretation of a court) determine the purpose of the use. But
the meaning of a secondary work, as reasonably can be perceived,
should be considered to the extent necessary to determine whether
the purpose of the use is distinct from the original, for instance,
because the use comments on, criticizes, or provides otherwise
unavailable information about the original, see, e.g.,
Authors Guild, 804 F. 3d, at 215-216.

															2

															The District Court determined that "[t]he Prince Series works
can reasonably be perceived to have transformed Prince from a
vulnerable, uncomfortable person to an iconic, larger-than-life
figure." 382 F. Supp. 3d, at 326. To make that determination, the
District Court relied, in part, on testimony by Goldsmith that her
photographs of Prince show that he "is 'not a comfortable person'
and that he is 'a vulnerable human being.' " Ibid. An expert
on Warhol, meanwhile, testified that the Prince Series works depict
"Prince as a kind of icon or totem of something," a "mask-like
simulacrum of his actual existence." 1 App. 249, 257.

															The Court of Appeals noted, correctly, that "whether a work is
transformative cannot turn merely on the stated or perceived intent
of the artist or the meaning or impression that a critic-or for
that matter, a judge-draws from the work." 11 F. 4th, at 41.
"[O]therwise, the law may well 'recogniz[e] any alteration as
transformative.' " Ibid. (quoting 4 Nimmer, Copyright
§13.05[B][6]). Whether the purpose and character of a
use weighs in favor of fair use is, instead, an objective inquiry
into what use was made, i.e., what the user does with the
original work.

															Granting the District Court's conclusion that Orange Prince
reasonably can be perceived to portray Prince as iconic, whereas
Goldsmith's portrayal is photorealistic, that difference must be
evaluated in the context of the specific use at issue. The use is
AWF's commercial licensing of Orange Prince to appear on the cover
of Condé Nast's special commemorative edition. The
purpose of that use is, still, to illustrate a magazine about
Prince with a portrait of Prince. Although the purpose could be
more specifically described as illustrating a magazine about Prince
with a portrait of Prince, one that portrays Prince somewhat
differently from Goldsmith's photograph (yet has no critical
bearing on her photograph), that degree of difference is not enough
for the first factor to favor AWF, given the specific context of
the use.

															To hold otherwise would potentially authorize a range of
commercial copying of photographs, to be used for purposes that are
substantially the same as those of the originals. As long as the
user somehow portrays the subject of the photograph differently, he
could make modest alterations to the original, sell it to an outlet
to accompany a story about the subject, and claim transformative
use. Many photographs will be open to various interpretations. A
subject as open to interpretation as the human face, for example,
reasonably can be perceived as conveying several possible meanings.
The application of an artist's characteristic style to bring out a
particular meaning that was available in the photograph is less
likely to constitute a "further purpose" as Campbell used
the term. 510 U. S., at 579.

															AWF asserts another, albeit related, purpose, which is to
comment on the "dehumanizing nature" and "effects" of celebrity.
Brief for Petitioner 44, 51. No doubt, many of Warhol's works, and
particularly his uses of repeated images, can be perceived as
depicting celebrities as commodities. But again, even if such
commentary is perceptible on the cover of Condé Nast's
tribute to "Prince Rogers Nelson, 1958-2016," on the occasion of
the man's death, AWF has a problem: The asserted commentary is at
Campbell's lowest ebb. Because it "has no critical bearing
on" Goldsmith's photograph,[20] the commentary's
"claim to fairness in borrowing from" her work "diminishes
accordingly (if it does not vanish)." 510 U. S., at 580.[21] The commercial nature of the use, on the other hand,
"loom[s] larger." Ibid.

															Here, the circumstances of AWF's 2016 licensing outweigh its
diminished claim to fairness in copying under the first factor.
Like satire that does not target an original work, AWF's asserted
commentary "can stand on its own two feet and so requires
justification for the very act of borrowing." Id., at 581.
Moreover, because AWF's commercial use of Goldsmith's photograph to
illustrate a magazine about Prince is so similar to the
photograph's typical use, a particularly compelling justification
is needed. Yet AWF offers no independent justification, let alone a
compelling one, for copying the photograph, other than to convey a
new meaning or message. As explained, that alone is not enough for
the first factor to favor fair use.

															Copying might have been helpful to convey a new meaning or
message. It often is. But that does not suffice under the first
factor. Nor does it distinguish AWF from a long list of would-be
fair users: a musician who finds it helpful to sample another
artist's song to make his own, a playwright who finds it helpful to
adapt a novel, or a filmmaker who would prefer to create a sequel
or spinoff, to name just a few.[22] As Judge
Leval has explained, "[a] secondary author is not necessarily at
liberty to make wholesale takings of the original author's
expression merely because of how well the original author's
expression would convey the secondary author's different message."
Authors Guild, 804 F. 3d, at 215.

															3

															The dissent would rather not debate these finer points. See
post, at 4, n. 2 (opinion of Kagan, J.). It offers no theory
of the relationship between transformative uses of original works
and derivative works that transform originals. No reason why AWF
was justified in using Goldsmith's original work in this specific
instance. And no limiting principle for its apparent position that
any use that is creative prevails under the first fair use factor.
Instead, the dissent makes the simple (and obvious) point that
restrictions on copying can inhibit follow-on works. " 'Nothing
comes from nothing,' " the dissent observes, " 'nothing ever
could.' " Post, at 11. So somewhere in the copyright
statute, there must be an "escape valve" to create something good.
Post, at 12. If AWF must pay Goldsmith to use her
creation, the dissent claims, this will "stifle creativity of every
sort," "thwart the expression of new ideas and the attainment of
new knowledge," and "make our world poorer." Post, at
36.

															These claims will not age well. It will not impoverish our world
to require AWF to pay Goldsmith a fraction of the proceeds from its
reuse of her copyrighted work. Recall, payments like these are
incentives for artists to create original works in the first place.
Nor will the Court's decision, which is consistent with
longstanding principles of fair use, snuff out the light of Western
civilization, returning us to the Dark Ages of a world without
Titian, Shakespeare, or Richard Rodgers. The dissent goes on at
length about the basic premise that copyright (like other forms of
intellectual property) involves a tradeoff between stimulating
innovative activity, on the one hand, and allowing follow-on
innovation, on the other. See post, at 11-12, and n. 4,
24-35. This theme will be familiar to any student of copyright law.
In tracing the history of Renaissance painting, however, the
dissent loses sight of the statute and this Court's cases. The
Lives of the Artists undoubtedly makes for livelier reading than
the U. S. Code or the U. S. Reports, but as a court, we do not have
that luxury.

															The dissent thus misses the forest for a tree. Its single-minded
focus on the value of copying ignores the value of original works.
It ignores the statute's focus on the specific use alleged to be
infringing. See n. 10, supra. It waves away the statute's
concern for derivative works. Supra, at 28-29, and n. 17. It
fails to appreciate Campbell's nuance. Supra, at
29-30, 34, n. 21. And it disregards this Court's repeated emphasis
on justification. Supra, at 29-30, and n. 18, 34, n. 21.

															The result of these omissions is an account of fair use that is
unbalanced in theory and, perhaps relatedly, in tone. The dissent's
conclusion-that whenever a use adds new meaning or message, or
constitutes creative progress in the opinion of a critic or judge,
the first fair use factor weighs in its favor-does not follow from
its basic premise. Fair use instead strikes a balance between
original works and secondary uses based in part on objective
indicia of the use's purpose and character, including whether the
use is commercial and, importantly, the reasons for copying.

															Finally, copyright law is replete with escape valves: the
idea-expression distinction; the general rule that facts may not
receive protection; the requirement of originality; the legal
standard for actionable copying; the limited duration of copyright;
and, yes, the defense of fair use, including all its factors, such
as whether the amount taken is reasonable in relation to the
purpose of the use. These doctrines (and others) provide ample
space for artists and other creators to use existing materials to
make valuable new works. They account for most, if not all, of the
examples given by the dissent, as well as the dissent's own copying
(and the Court's, too). If the last century of American art,
literature, music, and film is any indication, the existing
copyright law, of which today's opinion is a continuation, is a
powerful engine of creativity.

															III

															Lynn Goldsmith's original works, like those of other
photographers, are entitled to copyright protection, even against
famous artists. Such protection includes the right to prepare
derivative works that transform the original. The use of a
copyrighted work may nevertheless be fair if, among other things,
the use has a purpose and character that is sufficiently distinct
from the original. In this case, however, Goldsmith's original
photograph of Prince, and AWF's copying use of that photograph in
an image licensed to a special edition magazine devoted to Prince,
share substantially the same purpose, and the use is of a
commercial nature. AWF has offered no other persuasive
justification for its unauthorized use of the photograph.
Therefore, the "purpose and character of the use, including whether
such use is of a commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational
purposes," §107(1), weighs in Goldsmith's favor.

															The Court has cautioned that the four statutory fair use factors
may not "be treated in isolation, one from another. All are to be
explored, and the results weighed together, in light of the
purposes of copyright." Campbell, 510 U. S., at 578. AWF
does not challenge the Court of Appeals' determinations that the
second factor, "the nature of the copyrighted work,"
§107(2); third factor, "the amount and substantiality
of the portion used in relation to the copyrighted work as a
whole," §107(3); and fourth factor, "the effect of the
use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted
work," all favor Goldsmith. See 11 F. 4th, at 45-51. Because this
Court agrees with the Court of Appeals that the first factor
likewise favors her, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is

															Affirmed.

															APPENDIX



															Andy Warhol created 16 works based on Lynn Goldsmith's
photograph:14 silkscreen prints and two pencil drawings. The works
are collectively known as the Prince Series.


Notes
1 A silkscreen is a fine mesh fabric used in
screen printing. Warhol's practice was to deliver a photograph to a
professional silkscreen printer with instructions for alterations,
such as cropping and high contrasting. 1 App. 160, 163. The latter
alteration would "flatten" the image. Once Warhol approved, the
printer would "reproduc[e]" the altered image "like a photographic
negative onto the screen." Id., at 164. For canvas prints,
Warhol "would then place the screen face down on the canvas, pour
ink onto the back of the mesh, and use a squeegee to pull the ink
through the weave and onto the canvas." Ibid. The resulting
"high-contrast half-tone impressions" served as an "
'under-drawing,' " over which Warhol painted colors by hand.
Id., at 165.
2 AWF sold 12 of the works to collectors and
galleries, and it transferred custody of the remaining four works
to the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh.
3 The Court of Appeals considered not only
the possibility of market harm caused by the actions of AWF but
also "whether 'unrestricted and widespread conduct of the sort
engaged in by [AWF] would result in a substantially adverse impact
on the potential market' " for the photograph, including the market
for derivative works. 11 F. 4th 26, 49-50 (CA2 2021) (quoting
Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc.,510 U.S.
569, 590 (1994)); see also Harper & Row, Publishers,
Inc. v. Nation Enterprises,471 U.S.
539, 568 (1985).
4 Take a critical book review, for example.
Not only does the review, as a whole, serve a different purpose
than the book; each quoted passage within the review likely serves
a different purpose (as an object of criticism) than it does in the
book. That may not always be so, however, and a court must consider
each use within the whole to determine whether the copying is fair.
W. Patry, Fair Use §3:1, pp. 129-130
(2022).
5 In theory, the question of transformative
use or transformative purpose can be separated from the question
whether there has been transformation of a work. In practice,
however, the two may overlap. Compare, e.g.,
Núñez v. Caribbean Int'l News
Corp., 
235 F.3d 18, 21-23 (CA1 2000) (newspaper's reproduction,
without alteration, of photograph of beauty pageant winner to
explain controversy over whether her title should be withdrawn had
transformative purpose because " 'the pictures were the story' "),
with Leibovitz v. Paramount Pictures Corp., 
137 F.3d 109, 114-115 (CA2 1998) (film advertisement's
alteration of well-known photograph by superimposing actor's face
on actress' body had transformative purpose of
parody).
6 The authors of the Copyright Act of 1976
included the language, " 'whether such use is of a commercial
nature or is for non-profit educational purposes,' " in the first
fair use factor "to state explicitly" that, "as under the present
law, the commercial or non-profit character of an activity, while
not conclusive with respect to fair use, can and should be weighed
along with other factors." H. R. Rep. No. 94-1476, p. 66
(1976).
7 Return to the example of a book review. The
review's use of quoted material may be justified in both the broad
and the narrower senses. First, the use is likely to serve a
different purpose than the material itself. See n. 4, supra.
Second, there may be compelling reason to borrow from the original
to achieve that purpose because the review targets the material for
comment or criticism. But again, the question of justification will
depend on the individual use or uses. See Patry, Fair Use
§3:1, at 129-130. Even book reviews are not entitled to
a presumption of fairness. Campbell, 510 U. S., at
581.
8 Consider, for example, this Court's
analysis of the first factor in Google LLC v. Oracle
America, Inc., 593 U. S. ___ (2021). Google stressed
that "[t]he fact that computer programs are primarily functional
makes it difficult to apply traditional copyright concepts in that
technological world." Id., at ___ (slip op., at 35). Still,
in evaluating the purpose and character of Google's use of Sun
Microsystems' code, the Court looked, first, to whether the purpose
of the use was significantly different from that of the original;
and, second, to the strength of other justifications for the use.
Although Google's use was commercial in nature, it copied Sun's
code, which was "created for use in desktop and laptop computers,"
"only insofar as needed to include tasks that would be useful in
smartphone[s]." Id., at ___ (slip op., at 26). That is,
Google put Sun's code to use in the "distinct and different
computing environment" of its own Android platform, a new system
created for new products. Ibid. Moreover, the use was
justified in that context because "shared interfaces are necessary
for different programs to speak to each other" and because
"reimplementation of interfaces is necessary if programmers are to
be able to use their acquired skills." Ibid.; see also
id., at ___ (slip op., at 8).
9 AWF sought a declaratory judgment that
would cover the original Prince Series works, but Goldsmith has
abandoned all claims to relief other than her claim as to the 2016
Condé Nast license and her request for prospective
relief as to similar commercial licensing. Brief for Respondents 3,
17-18; Tr. of Oral Arg. 80-82.
10 The dissent, however, focuses on a case
that is not before the Court. No, not whether Francis Bacon would
have made fair use of Velásquez's painting, had
American copyright law applied in Europe with a term of 300 years
post mortem auctoris. But cf. post, at 32-34 (opinion
of Kagan, J.). Rather, Congress has directed courts to examine the
purpose and character of the challenged "use."17 U. S. C.
§107(1). Yet the dissent assumes that any and all uses
of an original work entail the same first-factor analysis based
solely on the content of a secondary work. This assumption
contradicts the fair use statute and this Court's precedents. See
supra, at 20-21. Had AWF's use been solely for teaching
purposes, that clearly would affect the analysis, and the statute
permits no other conclusion. Preferring not to focus on the
specific use alleged to infringe Goldsmith's copyright, the dissent
begins with a sleight of hand, see post, at 1, n. 1, and
continues with a false equivalence between AWF's commercial
licensing and Warhol's original creation. The result is a series of
misstatements and exaggerations, from the dissent's very first sen-
tence, post, at 1 ("Today, the Court declares that Andy
Warhol's eye-popping silkscreen of Prince . . . is (in copyright
lingo) not 'transformative' "), to its very last, post, at
36 ("[The majority opinion] will make our world
poorer").
11 The Court of Appeals observed that the
"purpose and function of the two works at issue here is identical,
not merely in the broad sense that they are created as works of
visual art, but also in the narrow but essential sense that they
are portraits of the same person." 11 F. 4th, at 42 (footnote
omitted). This Court goes somewhat "further and examine[s] the
copying's more specifically described 'purpose[s]' " in the context
of the particular use at issue (here, in a magazine about Prince).
Google, 593 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 25). The Court does
not define the purpose as simply "commercial" or "commercial
licensing." Post, at 18, 20, n. 7, 25, n. 8 (Kagan, J.,
dissenting). Nor does the Court view Goldsmith's photograph and
Warhol's illustration as "fungible products in the magazine
market." Post, at 18; see post, at 10. Rather, the
Court finds significant the degree of similarity between the
specific purposes of the original work and the secondary use at
issue. According to the dissent, the fact that a magazine editor
might prefer one image to the other must mean the secondary use is
transformative, either because it has a different aesthetic or
conveys a different message. Post, at 10. The Court, because
it fails to understand the difference, does not have "much of a
future in magazine publishing," the dissent chides. Ibid.
While the dissent is probably correct about the Court's business
prospects, the editors of People, Rolling Stone, and Time chose a
variety of different photos of Prince for their memorial issues.
See fig. 5, supra. Portrait photos, in fact. Some black and
white; some depicting Prince's " 'corporeality' "; some "realistic"
or "humanistic." Post, at 9, 16 (Kagan, J., dissenting).
These variations in aesthetics did not stop the photos from serving
the same essential purpose of depicting Prince in a magazine
commemorating his life and career. Fortunately, the dissent's
"magazine editor" test does not have much of a future in fair use
doctrine. The flaw in the dissent's logic is simple: If all that
mattered under the first factor were whether a buyer was "drawn
aesthetically" to a secondary work (instead of the pre-existing
work it adapted) or whether the buyer preferred "to convey the
message of " the secondary work, post, at 10, then every
derivative work would qualify. The New Yorker might prefer an
unauthorized sequel to a short story, rather than the original, but
that does not mean the purpose and character of the use would weigh
in its favor. Similarly, a rap label might prefer 2 Live Crew's
song, rather than Orbison's original, based on the new sound and
lyrics (i.e., new aesthetic and message), but that was not
enough in Campbell, and it is not enough here.
12 In this way, the first factor relates to
the fourth, market effect. See Campbell, 510 U. S., at 591;
cf. also Harper & Row, 471 U. S., at 568 ("The excerpts
were employed as featured episodes in a story about the Nixon
pardon-precisely the use petitioners had licensed to Time"). While
the first factor considers whether and to what extent an original
work and secondary use have substitutable purposes, the fourth
factor focuses on actual or potential market substitution. Under
both factors, the analysis here might be different if Orange Prince
appeared in an art magazine alongside an article about Warhol.
Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 33. While keenly
grasping the relationship between The Two Lolitas, the dissent
fumbles the relationship between the first and fourth fair use
factors. Under today's decision, as before, the first factor does
not ask whether a secondary use causes a copyright owner economic
harm. Cf. post, at 21 (opinion of Kagan, J.). There is,
however, a positive association between the two factors: A
secondary use that is more different in purpose and character is
less likely to usurp demand for the original work or its
derivatives, as the Court has explained, see Campbell, 519
U. S., at 591. This relationship should be fairly obvious. But see
post, at 22 (Kagan, J., dissenting) (suggesting that the
first factor can favor only the user and the fourth factor only the
copyright owner). Still, the relationship is not absolute. For
example, copies for classroom use might fulfill demand for an
original work. The first factor may still favor the copyist, even
if the fourth factor is shown not to. At the same time, other forms
of straight copying may be fair if a strong showing on the fourth
factor outweighs a weak showing on the first.
13 The dissent misconstrues the role of
commercialism in this analysis. The Court does not hold that "[a]ll
that matters is that [AWF] and the publisher entered into a
licensing transaction"; or that the first-factor inquiry "should
disregard Warhol's creative contributions because he licensed his
work"; or that an artist may not "market even a transformative
follow-on work." Post, at 3, 19, 34 (opinion of Kagan, J.).
Instead, consistent with the statute, "whether [a] use is of a
commercial nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes" is one
element of the first factor, §107(1); it does not
dispose of that factor, much less the fair use inquiry. As this
opinion makes clear, the commercial character of a secondary use
should be weighed against the extent to which the use is
transformative or otherwise justified. Supra, at 18 (citing
Campbell, 510 U. S., at 579-580, 585); see also
supra, at 12, 19-20, and n. 8, 25; infra, at
34-35.
14 The dissent contends that the Court gives
"little role" to "the key term 'character.' " Post, at 19
(opinion of Kagan, J.). This is somewhat puzzling, as the Court has
previously employed "character" to encompass exactly what the
dissent downplays: " 'the commercial or nonprofit character of an
activity.' " Sony Corp. of America v. Universal City
Studios, Inc.,464 U.S.
417, 448-449 (1984) (quoting H. R. Rep. No. 94-1476, at 66);
see also Campbell, 510 U. S., at 572, 584-585 (repeatedly
referring to "commercial character"). Rather than looking to this
case law, the dissent looks up the word "character" in a
dictionary. See post, at 13. But the dissent's preferred
definition-"a thing's 'main or essential nature[,] esp[ecially] as
strongly marked and serving to distinguish,' " post, at 20
(quoting Webster's Third New International Dictionary 376
(1976))-helps Goldsmith, not AWF. Even this definition does not
support the implication that "character" is determined by any
aesthetic distinctiveness, such as the addition of any new
expression. Instead, it is the "main or essential nature" that must
be "strongly marked and serv[e] to distinguish." So return to
Orange Prince on the cover of the Condé Nast issue
commemorating Prince, see fig. 5, supra, and ask, what is
the main or essential nature of the secondary
use of Goldsmith's photograph in that context?
15 The situation might be different if AWF
licensed Warhol's Soup Cans to a soup business to serve as its
logo. That use would share much the same purpose of Campbell's
logo, even though Soup Cans has some new meaning or message. This
hypothetical, though fanciful, is parallel to the situation here:
Both Goldsmith and AWF sold images of Prince (AWF's copying
Goldsmith's) to magazines to illustrate stories about the
celebrity, which is the typical use made of Goldsmith's
photographs.
16 The dissent either does not follow, or
chooses to ignore, this analysis. The point is not simply that the
Soup Cans series comments on consumer culture, similar to how
Warhol's celebrity images comment on celebrity culture.
Post, at 15 (opinion of Kagan, J.). Rather, as the
discussion makes clear, the degree of difference in purpose and
character between Campbell's soup label and Warhol's painting is
nearly absolute. Plus, Warhol's use targets Campbell's logo, at
least in part. These features (which are absent in this case)
strengthen Warhol's claim to fairness in copying that logo in a
painting.
17 The dissent is stumped. Buried in a
conclusory footnote, it suggests that the fourth fair use factor
alone takes care of derivative works like book-to-film adaptations.
Post, at 12, n. 5. This idea appears to come from a Hail
Mary lobbed by AWF when it got caught in the same bind. See Tr. of
Oral Arg. 15-16. The Court is aware of no authority for the
proposition that the first factor favors such uses (on the
dissent's view, the first factor must, because the use modifies the
expressive content of an original work), leaving it to the fourth
factor to ensure that §106(2) is not a dead letter.
Certainly Google, which merely noted in passing that
"[m]aking a film of an author's book may . . . mean potential or
presumed losses to the copyright owner," did not hold as much. 593
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 30); see id., at ___-___,
___-___ (slip op., at 24-28, 30-35).
18 The dissent makes a similar mistake with
Google: It fails to read the decision as a whole. So while
the dissent claims that the "[Google] Court would have told
this one to go back to school," it might be easier just to go back
and read Google. Post, at 2 (opinion of Kagan, J.).
The Court did not hold that any secondary use that is innovative,
in some sense, or that a judge or Justice considers to be creative
progress consistent with the constitutional objective of copyright,
is thereby transformative. The Court instead emphasized that Google
used Sun's code in a "distinct and different" context, and "only
insofar as needed" or "necessary" to achieve Google's new purpose.
Google, 593 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 26); see also n. 8,
supra. In other words, the same concepts of use and
justification that the Court relied on in Google are the
ones that it applies today.
19 The dissent demonstrates the danger of this
approach. On its view, the first fair use factor favors AWF's use
of Goldsmith's photograph simply because Warhol created worthy art.
Goldsmith's original work, by contrast, is just an "old photo," one
of Warhol's "templates." Post, at 2, 17 (opinion of Kagan,
J.). In other words, the dissent (much like the District Court)
treats the first factor as determined by a single fact: "It's a
Warhol." This Court agrees with the Court of Appeals that such
logic would create a kind of privilege that has no basis in
copyright law. See 11 F. 4th, at 43. Again, the Court does not deny
that Warhol was a major figure in American art. But it leaves the
worth of his works to the critics. Compare, e.g., D. Antin,
Warhol: The Silver Tenement, in Pop Art: A Critical History 287 (S.
Madoff ed. 1997), with R. Hughes, The Shock of the New 346-351 (2d
ed. 1991). Whatever the contribution of Orange Prince, Goldsmith's
photograph is part of that contribution. A court need not, indeed
should not, assess the relative worth of two works to decide a
claim of fair use. Otherwise, "some works of genius would be sure
to miss appreciation," and, "[a]t the other end, copyright would be
denied to [works] which appealed to a public less educated than the
judge." Bleistein, 188 U. S., at 251-252 (Holmes, J.). That
Goldsmith's photograph "had [its] worth and [its] success is
sufficiently shown by the desire to reproduce [it] without regard
to [her] rights." Id., at 252.
20 At no point in this litigation has AWF
maintained that any of the Prince Series works, let alone Orange
Prince on the cover of the 2016 Condé Nast special
edition, comment on, criticize, or otherwise target Goldsmith's
photograph. That makes sense, given that the photograph was
unpublished when Goldsmith licensed it to Vanity Fair, and that
neither Warhol nor Vanity Fair selected the photograph, which was
instead provided by Goldsmith's agency.
21 The dissent wonders: Why does targeting
matter? See post, at 24 (opinion of Kagan, J.). The
reason, as this opinion explains, is the first factor's attention
to justification. Supra, at 17-20, and nn. 7-8, 29-30, and
n. 18 (citing Campbell, 510 U. S., at 580-581;
Google, 593 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 26)). Compare, for
example, a film adaptation of Gone With the Wind with a novel, The
Wind Done Gone, that "inverts" the original's "portrait of race
relations" to expose its "romantic, idealized" portrayal of the
antebellum South. SunTrust Bank v. Houghton Mifflin
Co., 
268 F.3d 1257, 1270 (CA11 2001); id., at 1280 (Marcus,
J., specially concurring). Or, to build from one of the artistic
works the dissent chooses to feature, consider a secondary use that
borrows from Manet's Olympia to shed light on the original's
depiction of race and sex. See R. Storr & C. Armstrong, Lunch
With Olympia (2016). Although targeting is not always required,
fair use is an affirmative defense, and AWF bears the burden to
justify its taking of Goldsmith's work with some reason other than,
"I can make it better."
22 The dissent oddly suggests that under the
Court's opinion, the first fair use factor favors such uses. See
post, at 12, n. 5. This ignores, well, pretty much the
entire opinion. See supra, at 14-17, 22-24, 26-27, 28-29,
32-33 (degree of difference in purpose and character);
supra, at 18, 24 (commercial nature); supra, at
17-19, 27, 30, 34-35 (justification). In particular, the Court does
not hold that the first factor favors any user who "wants to reach
different buyers, in different markets, consuming different
products." Post, at 13, n. 5 (opinion of Kagan, J.). The
dissent apparently deduces this proposition from its inverse, which
is a common logical fallacy.



