::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-069
::decision_cite:: 21-954
::decision_name::  Biden v. Texas
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 21–954

															_________________

															JOSEPH R. BIDEN, JR., PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, et al., PETITIONERS v. TEXAS, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 30, 2022]

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas and
Justice Gorsuch join, dissenting.

															In fiscal year 2021, the Border Patrol reported
more than 1.7 million encounters with aliens along the Mexican
border.[1] When it appears that
one of these aliens is not admissible, may the Government simply
release the alien in this country and hope that the alien will show
up for the hearing at which his or her entitlement to remain will
be decided?

															Congress has provided a clear answer to that
question, and the answer is no. By law, if an alien is “not
clearly and beyond a doubt entitled to be admitted,” the
alien “shall be detained for a [removal]
proceeding.” 8 U. S. C. §1225(b)(2)(A)
(emphasis added). And if an alien asserts a credible fear of
persecution, he or she “shall be detained for further
consideration of the application for asylum,”
§1225(b)(1)(B)(ii) (emphasis added). Those requirements, as we
have held, are mandatory. See Jennings v. Rodriguez,
583 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 13).

															Congress offered the Executive two—and
only two—alternatives to detention. First, if an alien is
“arriving on land” from “a foreign territory
contiguous to the United States,” the Department of Homeland
Security (DHS) “may return the alien to that territory
pending a [removal] proceeding.” §1225(b)(2)(C). Second,
DHS may release individual aliens on “parole,” but
“only on a case-by-case basis for urgent humanitarian reasons
or a significant public benefit.” §1182(d)(5)(A).

															Due to the huge numbers of aliens who attempt to
enter illegally from Mexico, DHS does not have the capacity to
detain all inadmissible aliens encountered at the border, and no
one suggests that DHS must do the impossible. But rather than avail
itself of Congress’s clear statutory alternative to return
inadmissible aliens to Mexico while they await proceedings in this
country, DHS has concluded that it may forgo that option altogether
and instead simply release into this country untold numbers of
aliens who are very likely to be removed if they show up for their
removal hearings. This practice violates the clear terms of the
law, but the Court looks the other way.

															In doing so, the majority commits three main
errors. First, it unnecessarily resolves difficult jurisdictional
questions on which—due to the Government’s litigation
tactics—we have received only hurried briefing and no
argument. Second, when the majority reaches the merits, it
contrives a way to overlook the clear statutory violations that
result from DHS’s decision to terminate the use of its
contiguous-territory return authority. Finally, the majority
unjustifiably faults the Court of Appeals for rejecting the
Government’s last-minute attempt to derail the ordinary
appellate process. I cannot go along with any of this, and I
therefore respectfully dissent.

															I

															In 2018, a surge of foreign migrants attempted
to enter the United States unlawfully at the United States-Mexico
border, creating a “ ‘humanitarian and border
security crisis.’ ” 554 F. Supp. 3d 818, 831
(ND Tex. 2021). Because existing detention facilities could not
house all the people who were attempting to enter unlawfully, many
“illegal aliens with meritless asylum claims were being
released into the United States,” and many, once released,
simply “ ‘disappeared.’ ”
Ibid. (emphasis deleted). To address this problem, DHS
promulgated the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) in December of
that year. See id., at 832. The MPP program relied on
Congress’s express grant of authority to “return”
”alien[s] . . . arriving on land . . .
from a foreign territory contiguous to the United States”
“to that territory pending a proceeding” to remove them
to their countries of origin. §1225(b)(2)(C).[2] MPP provided that certain non-Mexican
nationals arriving at the United States border by land from Mexico
would be returned to Mexico to await the results of their removal
proceedings. The Mexican Government agreed to cooperate and to
accept aliens while they awaited removal.

															While the policy was in effect, DHS issued a
memorandum in which it determined that MPP was “an
indispensable tool in addressing the ongoing crisis at the southern
border.” App. 189 (Department of Homeland Security:
Assessment of the Migrant Protection Protocols (Oct. 28, 2019)). It
concluded that MPP directly reduced the number of aliens unlawfully
released into the United States and deterred others from attempting
to cross the border unlawfully in the first place. 554
F. Supp. 3d, at 833. DHS found that total border encounters
decreased by 64 percent after MPP was implemented. App. 189. With
MPP in place, aliens who lacked meritorious claims could no longer
count on “a free ticket into the United States,” and as
a result, many “voluntarily return[ed] home.”
Id., at 192. MPP also helped DHS process meritorious asylum
claims “within months,” rather than leaving asylum
applicants “in limbo for years.” Id., at
190.

															Hours after his inauguration on January 20,
2021, President Biden issued an Executive Order suspending MPP, and
the effects on the border were immediate. According to the
Government’s own data, border “encounters jump[ed] from
75,000 in January 2021,” when MPP was first suspended, to
about “173,000 in April 2021.” 554 F. Supp. 3d, at
837.

															Two States, Texas and Missouri, brought suit
under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) in April 2021,
alleging that suspending MPP was arbitrary and capricious and
violated the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). The District
Court ordered the Government to file the administrative record for
the January suspension, and on May 31, 2021, the Government filed a
three-line suspension memorandum as the entire administrative
record. See id., at 856, n. 16. The next day, in a 7-page
memo issued by the Secretary, DHS terminated the already-suspended
program.

															The States amended their complaint to challenge
the June termination decision on largely the same grounds that they
had advanced with respect to the January suspension. After a
consolidated preliminary injunction hearing and a trial on the
merits under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 65(a)(2), the District
Court vacated the Government’s decision to rescind MPP and
enjoined the Secretary to continue to implement that policy
“in good faith” until all the aliens in question could
be detained or lawfully paroled. Id., at 857. The Government
sought a stay of this order, but the United States Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit, while expediting the Government’s
appeal, refused to issue a stay. 10 F. 4th 538, 543–561
(2021) (per curiam). The Government then sought a stay
in this Court, but we denied that application. 594 U. S. ___
(2021).

															On September 29, 2021, while briefing in the
Court of Appeals was underway, DHS announced that it intended to
issue a new memorandum terminating MPP, and the Government asked
the Court of Appeals to hold its appeal in abeyance pending this
promised administrative action. App. 51–52. The Court of
Appeals denied that motion, id., at 54, and then, two
business days before oral argument, DHS issued two memoranda
declaring that DHS had made a new decision terminating MPP. See
App. to Pet. for Cert. 257a–345a. At the same time, the
Government asked the Court of Appeals to hold that the case before
it was moot, to vacate the District Court’s judgment and
injunction, and to remand the case for further proceedings. 20 F.
4th 928, 946 (CA5 2021). The Fifth Circuit refused and held that
the October 29 Memoranda did not moot the appeal or have any other
legal effect on the appellate proceedings. Id., at
956–966, 998–1000. The Fifth Circuit then affirmed the
District Court on the merits.

															II

															I agree with the majority that the injunction
entered by the District Court in this case exceeded its
“jurisdiction or authority to enjoin or restrain the
operation of ” the relevant statutes.
§1252(f )(1). That conclusion follows from a
straightforward analysis of the text of §1252(f )(1), as
recognized by the Court’s decision in Garland v.
Aleman Gonzalez, 596 U. S. ___ (2022). But that is
where the majority and I part ways.

															I agree with Justice Barrett that the majority
should not go any further and should not resolve other questions
about §1252(f )(1) without adequate briefing or argument.
The Government admits that “this Court could in theory vacate
the judgment below without reaching the merits,” Supp. Brief
for Petitioners 23, but the majority chooses to decide far more
than is necessary or advisable under the circumstances.

															As Justice Barrett explains, the interpretation
of §1252(f )(1) presents difficult questions that the
parties should have addressed in the briefs they filed before oral
argument. In its opening brief, the Government’s only
discussion of this issue appeared in a footnote that reads as
follows in its entirety:

															“In addition, the lower courts
lacked jurisdiction to grant injunctive relief under 8
U. S. C. [§]1252(f )(1). This Court is
considering the scope of Section 1252(f )(1) in Garland
v. Aleman Gonzalez, No. 20–322 (argued Jan. 11,
2022).” Brief for Petitioners 18, n. 3.

															That footnote’s reference to the
Government’s brief in Gonzalez raised an obvious
question. Section 1252(f )(1) refers to orders that
“enjoin or restrain the operation of ” specified
statutory provisions, and in Gonzalez, the Government
suggested that this provision should not be interpreted to apply
only to injunctions. Brief for Petitioners 17–19, 32, n. 3,
and Tr. of Oral Arg. 15–16, in Garland v. Aleman
Gonzalez, O. T. 2021, No. 20–322. Instead, the Government
refused to rule out the possibility that the provision might also
apply to class-wide declaratory relief, and it analogized
§1252(f )(1) to the Tax Injunction Act, 28
U. S. C. §1341, and cited our decision in
California v. Grace Brethren Church, 457 U.S.
393 (1982), which interpreted that provision in a
“ ‘practical sense.’ ”
Id., at 408.

															In the present case, the Government challenged
the order of the District Court “set[ting] aside” under
the APA, 5 U. S. C. §706(2), the June termination of
MPP, and since this order had a practical effect that was in some
respects similar to an injunction, the Government’s argument
in Gonzalez raised the question whether the Government
thought that §1252(f )(1) also barred the District Court
from reviewing the termination of the MPP under the APA. That is an
important question the resolution of which could have effects
extending far beyond this particular dispute, and at oral argument
the Solicitor General took the far-reaching position that
§1252(f )(1) does indeed bar APA review. See Tr. of Oral
Arg. 13–14. But none of the papers filed by the Government in
this case or in Gonzalez said one word about APA review. Nor
did the respondents’ brief. Indeed, their brief did not
discuss jurisdiction at all.

															Faced with this situation, the Court was
correctly concerned about deciding the reach of
§1252(f )(1) and the important APA question without any
briefing. The Court could have—and, in my judgment, should
have—dealt with this problem by deciding this case without
saying anything about §1252(f )(1) other than that it
bars injunctive relief. Instead, with the end of the Term looming
ahead, the Court directed the parties to brief these issues, but it
gave them just one week to do so. And as the Court should have
anticipated, those briefs raised new questions that it would have
been useful to explore at argument had that been held. But
determined to accommodate the Government’s request that this
case be decided this Term, the majority inadvisably plows
ahead.

															I would not do so. Because of the
Government’s request for a speedy decision, we established an
expedited schedule for the filing of merits briefs and squeezed in
oral argument on the next-to-last argument date. We would have been
in a position to give thorough consideration to the
§1252(f )(1) issue if it had been addressed in the
parties’ regular briefs, but having relegated the issue to a
terse footnote in its brief, and having been unprepared to discuss
the issue at argument, the Government is not entitled to any
further special treatment. We should simply vacate the decision
below and remand for reconsideration in light of our decision in
Gonzalez.[3] Nothing
more is either necessary or appropriate under the
circumstances.

															III

															The Court is not only wrong to reach the
merits of this case, but its analysis of the merits is seriously
flawed. First, the majority errs in holding that the INA does not
really mean what it says when it commands that the aliens in
question “shall” be detained pending removal or asylum
proceedings unless they are either returned to Mexico or paroled on
a case-by-case basis. According to the majority, it is fine for DHS
simply to release these aliens en masse and allow them to
disappear. Second, the majority improperly faults the Court of
Appeals for refusing to allow the Government to derail the
appellate process by a last-minute maneuver designed to thwart
review of the manner in which it initially terminated MPP.

															A

															As described above, the INA gives DHS three
options regarding the treatment of the aliens in question while
they await removal or asylum proceedings. They may be (1) detained
in this country or (2) returned to Mexico or (3) paroled on a
case-by-case basis. Congress has provided no fourth option, but the
majority now creates one. According to the majority, an alien who
cannot be detained due to a shortage of detention facilities but
could be returned to Mexico may simply be released. That is
wrong.

															1

															The language of 8 U. S. C.
§1225(b)(2)(A) is unequivocal. With narrow exceptions that are
inapplicable here,[4] it
provides that every alien “who is an applicant for
admission” and who “the examining immigration officer
determines . . . is not clearly and beyond a doubt
entitled to be admitted . . . shall be detained
for a [removal] proceeding.” (Emphasis added.) Six years ago,
the Government argued strenuously that this requirement is
mandatory, and its brief could hardly have been more categorical or
emphatic in making this point. See Brief for Petitioners in
Jennings v. Rodriguez, O. T. 2017, No. 15–1204,
p. 15 (“Aliens seeking admission who are not ‘clearly
and beyond a doubt entitled to be admitted’ are statutorily
prohibited from physically entering the United States and must be
detained during removal proceedings . . . , unless the
Secretary exercises his discretion to release them on
parole”); id., at 17 (“Unlike the word
‘may,’ which implies discretion, the word
‘shall’ usually connotes a requirement. And here, the
repeated ‘shall be detained’ clearly means what it
says” (internal quotation marks and citations omitted)).

															The Jennings Court correctly accepted
that argument, which was central to our holding. See 583
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 13) (“Read most naturally,
§§1225(b)(1) and (b)(2) thus mandate detention of
applicants for admission until certain proceedings have
concluded”). But now, in an about-face, the Government argues
that “shall be detained” actually means “may be
detained.” See Brief for Petitioners 29 (“[T]he Court
will not construe a provision stating that law enforcement
‘shall’ take some action as a ‘true
mandate’ absent ‘some stronger indication from the
. . . Legislature’ ”).

															The Government was correct in Jennings
and is wrong here. “[S]hall be detained” means
“shall be detained.” The Government points out that it
lacks the facilities to detain all the aliens in question, and no
one questions that fact. But use of the contiguous-return authority
would at least reduce the number of aliens who are released in
violation of the INA’s command. The District Court made a
factual finding that rescinding MPP would cause additional
violations of Congress’s unambiguous detention mandate. 554
F. Supp. 3d, at 851–852. It also found that “the
termination of MPP has contributed to the current border
surge” by giving aliens the “perverse
incentiv[e],” id., at 837, App. 196, to cross the
border illegally in hopes of being paroled and released.
Id., at 79. Thus, the Government is failing to meet the
statutory detention mandate, not only because of limitations on its
detention capacity but also because it refuses to use the
contiguous-territory return authority.

															Other than the argument that “shall”
means “may,” the Government’s only other textual
argument is that it is paroling aliens “on a case-by-case
basis for urgent humanitarian reasons or significant public
benefit,” as permitted under §1182(d)(5)(A). But the
number of aliens paroled each month under that provision—more
than 27,000 in April of this year[5]—gives rise to a strong inference that the
Government is not really making these decisions on a case-by-case
basis. The Government argues that respondents had the burden to
show that it is not making case-by-case determinations and that
they have not met that burden, see Brief for Petitioners 34, but
information about the true nature of these proceedings is in the
Government’s possession, and it has revealed little about
what actually takes place. At argument, however, the Solicitor
General argued that the case-by-case determination requirement can
be met simply by going through a brief checklist for each alien.
See Tr. of Oral Arg. 58–60. Even the rudimentary step of
verifying that an alien does not have a criminal record is not
performed in every case. Id., at 31. Such procedures are
inconsistent with the ordinary meaning of
“case-by-case” review, and as the Court of Appeals
pointed out, the circumstances under which §1182(d)(5)(B)) was
adopted bolster that conclusion. See 20 F. 4th, at 947 (After
“the executive branch on multiple occasions purported to use
the parole power to bring in large groups of immigrants,”
“Congress twice amended 8 U. S. C. §1182(d)(5)
to limit the scope of the parole power and prevent the executive
branch from using it as a programmatic policy tool” (citing
T. Aleinikoff et al., Immigration and Citizenship: Process and
Policy 300 (9th ed. 2021))).

															The majority claims that the Government’s
use of its parole authority under §1182(d)(5)(A) is not before
us, ante, at 18, but the Government cites that authority as
a reason why it does not need to use its contiguous-territory
return authority. Brief for Petitioners 6, 33–36. Moreover,
the District Court’s judgment relied on factual findings
regarding DHS’s abuse of its parole authority on the record
that the Government provided. 554 F. Supp. 3d, at 837.

															For these reasons, §1182(d)(5)(A) cannot
justify the release of tens of thousands of apparently inadmissible
aliens each month, and that leaves the Government with only one
lawful option: continue to return inadmissible aliens to Mexico.
See §1225(b)(2)(C).

															2

															The majority’s chief defense of the
Government’s rejection of MPP is based on a blinkered method
of statutory interpretation that we have firmly rejected. The
majority largely ignores the mandatory detention requirement
imposed by §1225(b)(2)(A) and, instead, reads the
contiguous-return provision, §1225(b)(2)(C), in isolation.
That provision says that the Secretary “may” return
aliens to the country from which they entered, not that the
Secretary must do so, and for the majority, that is enough to show
that use of that authority is not required.

															That reading ignores “the statutory
structure” of the INA, ante, at 14, and wrongly
“confine[s] itself to examining a particular statutory
provision in isolation.” FDA v. Brown &
Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U.S.
120, 132 (2000). We have an obligation to read the INA as a
“coherent regulatory scheme.” Gustafson v.
Alloyd Co., 513 U.S.
561, 569 (1995); see also FTC v. Mandel
Brothers, Inc., 359 U.S.
385, 389 (1959); Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis, 584
U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 10); A. Scalia & G.
Garner, Reading Law 180 (2012) (describing the
“harmonious-reading canon”). And if we follow that
canon, the majority’s interpretation collapses.

															Read as a whole, the INA gives DHS discretion to
choose from among only three options for handling the relevant
category of inadmissible aliens. The Government must either: (1)
detain them, (2) return them to a contiguous foreign nation, or (3)
parole them into the United States on an individualized,
case-by-case basis. These options operate in a hydraulic
relationship: When it is not possible for the Government to comply
with the statutory mandate to detain inadmissible aliens pending
further proceedings, it must resort to one or both of the other two
options in order to comply with the detention requirement to the
greatest extent possible.

															There is nothing strange about this
interpretation of how the relevant provisions of the INA work
together. Consider this example. Suppose a state law provides that
every school district “shall” provide a free public
education to every student from kindergarten through the 12th grade
and that another statute says that a district “may”
arrange for its students to attend high school in an adjacent
district. A small district refuses to operate its own high school
because it lacks the necessary funds, and this district also
declines to arrange for its students to attend a school in an
adjacent district because the law says only that a district
“may” take that course of action. Refusing to exercise
this discretionary authority, the district throws up its hands and
says to its high school students: “We’re sorry. If you
want to go to high school, you will have to make your own
arrangements and foot the bill.” If those students sue, would
any court sustain what the district did?

															Other examples come readily to mind. Suppose
that a building code says that every multi-unit residential
building “shall” have at least two means of egress from
upper floors, and suppose that another provision says that such a
building “may” have an external fire escape. The owner
of such a building refuses to construct a second internal stairway
because the cost would be prohibitive and also declines to install
a fire escape because the law says that option is discretionary.
Would the owner’s non-compliance be permitted?

															Here is one more example. A State that operates
its own motor vehicle inspection facilities has a law that says
that every vehicle “shall” be inspected every year. The
law also says that motorists “may” have their vehicles
inspected at a licensed private garage. A motorist fails to have
his car inspected because he must work during the time when the
state facility is open and would be fired if he took time off. This
motorist also declines to have his car inspected at a private
garage that is open during his off hours because the law says only
that he “may” use such a facility. Would the motorist
escape a citation?

															The answer in each of the above examples is that
the failure to make use of the discretionary option would not be
seen as a valid excuse for non-compliance with the command that
certain conduct “shall” be performed, and it is also
hard to see the difference between those examples and the situation
here.

															3

															The majority’s main reason for rejecting
the argument just described is that the contiguous-return provision
does not say expressly that it was meant to “operate as a
mandatory cure of any non-compliance with the Government’s
detention obligations.” Ante, at 14. But what logic
compels need not be stated expressly.

															The majority also relies on the fact that the
contiguous- return provision was enacted 90 years after the
provision requiring detention and the fact that the circumstances
under which the contiguous-return provision was adopted suggest
that it was intended to serve only a “humble role.”
Ante, at 16. Those circumstances cannot change what the
relevant provisions say or the way in which they logically work
together. See Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Allapattah Services,
Inc., 545 U.S.
546, 568 (2005) (“Extrinsic materials have a role in
statutory interpretation only to the extent that they shed a
reliable light on the enacting Legislature’s understanding of
otherwise ambiguous terms”). The Court should not use
extra-textual evidence to demote one of DHS’s three lawful
alternatives to the status of a historical footnote.

															The majority and the concurrence fault the lower
courts for intruding upon the foreign policy authority conferred on
the President by Article II of the Constitution. Ante, at
16–17 (majority opinion); ante, at 3 (opinion of
Kavanaugh, J.). But enforcement of immigration laws often has
foreign relations implications, and the Constitution gives Congress
broad authority to set immigration policy. See Art. I, §8, cl.
4. This means, we have said, that “[p]olicies pertaining to
the entry of aliens” are “entrusted exclusively
to Congress.” Galvan v. Press, 347 U.S.
522, 531 (1954) (emphasis added). The President has vital power
in the field of foreign affairs, so does Congress, and the
President does not have the authority to override immigration laws
enacted by Congress. Indeed, “[w]hen the President takes
measures incompatible with the expressed or implied will of
Congress, his power is at its lowest ebb, for then he can rely only
upon his own constitutional powers minus any constitutional powers
of Congress over the matter.” Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Co. v. Sawyer, 343 U.S.
579, 637 (1952) (Jackson, J., concurring). And it is Congress,
not the Judiciary, that gave the Executive only three options for
dealing with inadmissible aliens encountered at the border.

															Finally, the majority emphasizes the fact that
prior administrations have also failed to detain inadmissible
aliens, but that practice does not change what the law demands. The
majority cites no authority for the doctrine that the Executive can
acquire authority forbidden by law through a process akin to
adverse possession.

															B

															Not only does the majority fail to heed the
clear language of the INA, but it gratuitously faults the Court of
Appeals for what appears to be a fairly modest and correct
conclusion: that the October 29 Memoranda purporting to
re-terminate MPP did not ultimately affect the merits of the appeal
of the judgment that was before that court. The Government issued
its October 29 Memoranda after briefing in the Court of Appeals had
been completed and only days before the appeal was set to be
argued. Based on those memoranda, the Government asked the Court of
Appeals to vacate the judgment below, but it did not provide a full
administrative record or give the District Court an opportunity to
review the purported new decision in the first instance by filing a
Rule 60(b) motion.[6] The
majority now says that the Court of Appeals erred by failing to
treat the October 29 Memoranda as a new, final agency action, but
the majority does not say what applying that label would have
required the Fifth Circuit to do differently.

															As I see it, the Government’s litigation
tactic—filing the October 29 Memoranda with a suggestion of
mootness but without seeking to dismiss its appeal—could have
triggered one of four responses from the Court of Appeals. The
Court of Appeals could have (1) dismissed the appeal as moot and
vacated the District Court’s judgment and injunction; (2)
held the appeal in abeyance for an unspecified time; (3) evaluated
the October 29 Memoranda as final agency action in the first
instance under the APA; or (4) concluded that the October 29
Memoranda did not affect the appeal, which challenged the June
termination. The Court of Appeals picked the fourth option, and
taking each option in turn, I will explain why that was the
response best suited to avoid derailing the ordinary appellate
process.

															First, the October 29 Memoranda did not moot the
appeal. A case becomes moot only if it is impossible for the court
to “ ‘grant any effectual
relief.’ ” Chafin v. Chafin,
568 U.S.
165, 172 (2013). Under this high standard, the Fifth Circuit
was correct that the case was not moot. Although the Government
claimed that the appeal was moot, it asked the Court of Appeals for
relief, namely, vacatur of District Court’s injunction. It
was compelled to take that position because the October 29
Memoranda, by their own terms, did not take effect as long as that
injunction remained in force. See 20 F. 4th, at 957. And without an
appellate decision holding that the INA allows the Government to
release aliens who could be returned to Mexico, the issuance of a
new administrative order terminating MPP could not provide a ground
for vacating the injunction. It is telling that the
Government’s briefing in this Court never suggests that the
case was moot at the time of the Fifth Circuit’s decision or
that the case is now moot.

															Second, the Court of Appeals did not err by
declining to hold the appeal in abeyance. The Government originally
asked the Court of Appeals to hold the appeal while it completed
the process of issuing a new termination decision, but by the time
of oral argument in that court, the Government claimed that such a
decision had been issued. And the Government did not file a motion
in the District Court to vacate its judgment under Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 60(b). The Government had sought to expedite
proceedings at every stage, including by seeking emergency relief
in the Fifth Circuit and this Court, and under these circumstances,
it was eminently reasonable for the Court of Appeals to conclude
that additional delay would not have served the interests of
“economy of time and effort.” Landis v. North
American Co., 299 U.S.
248, 254 (1936).

															Third, the Court of Appeals correctly concluded
that the October 29 Memoranda could not satisfy our criteria for a
final agency action that could be reviewed in the first instance in
the Court of Appeals under the APA. Like this Court, the courts of
appeal are courts of “ ‘review, and not first
view.’ ” City of Austin v. Reagan Nat.
Advertising of Austin, LLC, 596 U. S. ___, ___–___
(2022) (slip op., at 13–14) (quoting Zivotofsky v.
Clinton, 566 U.S.
189, 201 (2012)). With no administrative record for the October
29 Memoranda before it, the Court of Appeals was in a poor position
to assess whether the memoranda actually “mark[ed] the
consummation of the agency’s decisionmaking process,”
Bennett v. Spear, 520 U.S.
154, 178 (1997) (internal quotation marks omitted). Moreover,
the October 29 Memoranda did not purport to result in a final
determination of “ ‘rights or
obligations.’ ” Ibid. As DHS acknowledged,
“the termination of MPP” could not “be
implemented” until there was “a final judicial decision
to vacate the . . . injunction.” App. to Pet. for
Cert. 264a, 270a. And until that was accomplished, the memoranda
did not impose on DHS officers or employees any
“ ‘obligatio[n]’ ” to cease
implementation of MPP. Bennett, 520 U. S., at 178. On
this basis, the Fifth Circuit rightly understood that the October
29 Memoranda could have no legal effect while DHS was bound by an
injunction to implement MPP in good faith and that this injunction
would remain in force unless the Government’s challenge to
the June termination was decided in its favor.[7]

															Even if the Fifth Circuit had somehow concluded
that the October 29 Memoranda constituted final agency action with
some future legal consequences, the Court does not explain what the
Fifth Circuit should have done differently in the circumstances it
faced. The Fifth Circuit had little ability to review whether the
agency had acted reasonably. See Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of
United States, Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile
Ins. Co., 463 U.S.
29 (1983). And the Fifth Circuit provided a reasonable
explanation for its actions.

															With these three options off the table, the
Fifth Circuit reasonably chose the fourth option. It correctly
concluded that the October 29 Memoranda did not affect its ability
to review the District Court judgment. To find fault with
proceeding in that fashion, the majority seems to assume that an
administrative agency may obviate a district court decision setting
aside agency action under §706 of the APA by pursing the
following course of conduct: first, appeal the district court
decision; second, take a purportedly “new” action that
achieves the same result as the one previously set aside; and
third, while declining to seek vacatur of the earlier judgment in
the district court, ask the court of appeals to vacate that
judgment without reviewing its correctness or the lawfulness of the
second action. The Court of Appeals was correct to view this as an
effort to thwart the normal appellate process.

															*  *  *

															While I would affirm the Fifth Circuit if we
reached the merits, I agree with the majority that the District
Court on remand should consider in the first instance whether the
October 29 Memoranda complied with §706 of the APA. The
District Court should assess, among other things, whether it is
“arbitrary and capricious” for DHS to refuse to use its
contiguous-territory return authority to avoid violations of the
statute’s clear detention mandate; whether the deterrent
effect that DHS found MPP produced in reducing dangerous attempted
illegal border crossings, as well as MPP’s reduction of
unmeritorious asylum claims, is adequately accounted for in the
agency’s new decision; and whether DHS’s rescission of
MPP is causing it to make parole decisions on an unlawful
categorical basis rather than case-by-case, as the statute
prescribes.

Notes
1
 U. S. Customs and
Border Protection, Southwest Land Border Encounters, FY Southwest
Land Border Encounters by Month (chart) (May 3, 2022),
https://www.cbp.gov/newsroom/stats/southwest-land-border-encounters
(showing 1,734,686 total encounters in fiscal year
2021).
2
 That policy was almost
immediately enjoined by a Federal District Court. Innovation Law
Lab v. Nielsen, 366 F. Supp. 3d 1110 (ND Cal.
2019). This Court stayed that injunction. Wolf v.
Innovation Law Lab, 589 U. S. ___ (2020).
3
 Alternatively, the Court
could have put the case over to next Term, received full briefing,
and heard argument in October.
4
 Entitled
“Exception,” §1225(b)(2)(B) provides:
“Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to an alien—
“(i) who is a crewman, “(ii) to whom paragraph (1)
applies, or “(iii) who is a stowaway.” If anything, the
narrowness of the enumerated exceptions demonstrates the force of
the rule: Detention for all others is mandatory.
5
 See, e.g.,
Defendants’ Monthly Report for April 2022 in No.
2:21–cv–67, ECF Doc. 139, p. 4 (ND Tex., May 16, 2022)
(“For the month of April 2022, DHS reported that the total
number of applicants for admission under Section 1225 paroled into
the United States was 91,250. This figure combines 88,452 [Customs
and Border Patrol] grants of parole . . . and 27,654
individuals ‘. . . Paroled into the U. S. on a
case-by-case basis pursuant to 8 U. S. C.
§1182(d)(5)’ ”); see also Defendants’
Monthly Report for March 2022, ECF Doc. 136, p. 3.
6
 See generally 11A C.
Wright, A. Miller, & M. Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure
§2961 (3d ed. 2013).
7
 The majority concludes
that the October 29 Memoranda had legal consequences because they
represented DHS’s “final determination of its
employees’ obligation” to terminate MPP, even if that
“ ‘determination’ ” could not
generate any obligations until the agency “obtained vacatur
of the District Court’s injunction.” Ante, at
20, n. 7 (emphasis deleted). This expansive, formalist
approach to the second Bennett factor is at odds with the
usual “ ‘pragmatic’ approach we have long
taken to finality.” Army Corps of Engineers v.
Hawkes Co., 578 U.S. 590, 599 (2016) (quoting Abbott
Laboratories v. Gardner, 387 U.S.
136, 149 (1967)). “To determine when an agency action is
final, we have looked to, among other things, whether its impact
‘is sufficiently direct and immediate’ and has a
‘direct effect on . . . day-to-day
business.’ ” Franklin v.
Massachusetts, 505 U.S.
788, 796–797 (1992) (quoting Abbott Laboratories,
387 U. S., at 152). By their own terms, as the majority
acknowledges, the October 29 Memoranda had no direct or immediate
effect on the day-to-day business of DHS employees. To conclude
that such future agency intentions may nevertheless meet the formal
definition of final agency action may result in many agencies
facing judicial scrutiny over interim rules, guidance documents,
letters, and informal opinions that may not bind anyone now or even
later.


