::SCDB_caseID:: 1908-080
::decision_cite:: 212 U.S. 315 (1909)
::decision_name::  Nielsen v. Oregon
::decision_year:: 1909
::opinion_author:: 
::opinion_type:: 
::opinion:: 

U.S. Supreme Court
Nielsen v. California, 212
U.S. 315 (1909)
Nielsen v. California
No. 593
Argued January 18, 19,
1909
Decided February 23,
1909
212
U.S. 315
ERROR TO THE SUPREME
COURT
OF THE STATE OF
OREGON
Syllabus

															The concurrent jurisdiction given by Congress to the States of
Oregon and Washington over the Columbia River by the Acts of March
2, 1853, c. 90, 10 Stat. 172, and of February 14, 1859, c. 33, 11
Stat. 383, extends to civil as well as criminal matters, and is
broadly a grant of jurisdiction to each state. Wedding v.
Meyler, 192 U. S. 573.

															In determining the effect of a grant of concurrent jurisdiction,
this Court confines itself to the precise questions presented.

															Where two states have concurrent jurisdiction, the one first
acquiring jurisdiction may prosecute and punish for an act which is
malum in se and punishable by the laws of both states, and
the judgment is a finality, so that the person prosecuted cannot be
again tried in either state. But this rule does not apply to those
acts which are prohibited in only one of the states.

															Where two states have concurrent jurisdiction over the same
territory which is partly located in one state and partly in the
other, one state cannot prosecute a person for an act malum
prohibitum by its own laws, and which was committed in
territory within the other state by authority of the latter, and so
held that one holding a purse net license from the State of
Washington cannot be prosecuted for using such net on the
Washington side of the Columbia River in the courts of Oregon for
violating the statutes of that state prohibiting the use of such
nets.

															Quaere whether such person could be prosecuted in the
courts of Oregon for using such nets on the Oregon side of the
river, and quaere whether, where concurrent jurisdiction
exists, prosecutions should be in the name of both states.

															95 P. 720 reversed.

															Plaintiff in error was convicted in a justice's court of the
Precinct of Astoria, Clatsop County, Oregon, of maintaining

															Page 212 U. S. 316

															and operating a purse net on the Columbia River contrary to the
statutes of Oregon. This conviction was by proper proceedings taken
to the supreme court of the state, and the judgment affirmed. 95 P.
720. From that decision the case has been brought here on
error.

															According to the agreed statement of facts, plaintiff in error
was an actual and bona fide resident and inhabitant of the
State of Washington and a citizen of the United States. He had a
license from the Fish Commissioner of Washington to operate a purse
net on the Columbia River, and was on said river, within the limits
of the State of Washington, operating such a purse net at the time
he was arrested and prosecuted in the courts of Oregon.

															By ยง 1 of the Act of Congress of March 2, 1853, c. 90, 10
Stat. 172, all that part of the Territory of Oregon lying north of
the "main channel of the Columbia River" was organized into the
Territory of Washington, and by ยง 21 of the same act, it is
provided

															"that the Territory of Oregon and the Territory of Washington
shall have concurrent jurisdiction over all offense committed on
the Columbia River, where said river forms a common boundary
between said territories."

															Section 1 of the act of Congress admitting Oregon into the Union
(Act of Feb. 14, 1859, c. 33, 11 Stat. 383), after describing in
detail the boundaries of the state, provides,

															"including jurisdiction in civil and criminal cases upon the
Columbia River and Snake River, concurrently with states and
territories of which those rivers form a boundary in common with
this state."

															And in ยง 2 it is said,

															"the said State of Oregon shall have concurrent jurisdiction on
the Columbia and all other rivers and water bordering on the said
State of Oregon so far as the same shall form a common boundary to
said state and any other state or states now or hereafter to be
formed or bounded by the same."

															The Legislative Assembly of Oregon passed an act, the first
section of which is as follows:

															"SEC. 1. It shall hereafter be unlawful to operate or
maintain

															Page 212 U. S. 317

															within any of the rivers of this state or of the Columbia River,
or in the Pacific Ocean within 3 miles of the mouths of any of the
rivers of this state, or of the Columbia River, any purse net or
other like seine for the purpose of catching or taking salmon or
other anadromous fish or sturgeon."

															The second section makes one violating any of the provisions of
the act guilty of a misdemeanor, and prescribes the penalty.
Sess.Laws Oregon 1907, p. 154. On the other hand, Washington passed
an act (Sess.Laws Wash., 1899, p. 194) the second section of which
reads as follows:

															"SEC. 2. The use of pound nets, traps, weirs, fish wheels, and
other fixed appliances, and purse nets, drag seines, and other
seines for catching salmon, is hereby authorized in all the waters
of this state wherein the same is not prohibited by section 1,
subject to the regulation and license hereinafter provided for or
otherwise required by law, and the use of the set nets, gill or
drift nets, subject to said license and regulation for said
purpose, is authorized in all the waters of this state, except as
otherwise provided by law."

															The prohibition in section 1 referred to does not include the
Columbia River. Section 6 of the same act fixes the license fees
for all first-class purse seines at $50 and all second-class purse
seines at $25.

															Page 212 U. S. 319

															MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the Court.

															By the legislation of Congress, the Columbia River is made the
common boundary between Oregon and Washington, and to each of those
states is given concurrent jurisdiction on the waters of that
river. How that jurisdiction is to be exercised, what limitations
there are, if any, upon the power of either state, is not in terms
prescribed. It is true, in the first section of the act admitting
Oregon, the jurisdiction was apparently limited to "civil and
criminal cases;" but, in the second section of that act, there was
given in general terms "concurrent jurisdiction." In Wedding v.
Meyler, 192 U. S. 573,
192 U. S. 584,
construing the term "concurrent jurisdiction," as given to Kentucky
and Indiana over the Ohio River, this Court, reversing the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky, said:

															"Concurrent jurisdiction, properly so-called, on rivers is
familiar to our legislation, and means the jurisdiction of two
powers over one and the same place. There is no reason to give an
unusual meaning to the phrase. See Sanders v. St. Louis &
New Orleans Anchor Line, 97 Mo. 26, 30; Opsahl v.
Judd, 30 Minn. 126, 129-130; J. S. Keator Lumber
Page 212 U. S. 320
Company v. St. Croix Boom Corp., 72 Wis. 62, and the
cases last cited."

															"The construction adopted by the majority of the Court of
Appeals seems to us at least equally untenable. It was held that
the words 'meant only that the states should have legislative
jurisdiction.' But jurisdiction, whatever else or more it may mean,
is jurisdictio, in its popular sense of authority to apply
the law to the acts of men. Vicat Vocab., sub. v.
See Rhode
Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, 37 U. S.
718. What the Virginia compact most certainly conferred
on the states north of the Ohio was the right to administer the law
below low water mark on the river, and, as part of that right, the
right to serve process there with effect. State v. Mullen,
35 Ia. 199, 205, 206."

															Undoubtedly one purpose, perhaps the primary purpose, in the
grant of concurrent jurisdiction was to avoid any nice question as
to whether a criminal act sought to be prosecuted was committed on
one side or the other of the exact boundary in the channel, that
boundary sometimes changing by reason of the shifting of the
channel. Where an act is malum in se, prohibited and
punishable by the laws of both states, the one first acquiring
jurisdiction of the person may prosecute the offense, and its
judgment is a finality in both states, so that one convicted or
acquitted in the courts of the one state cannot be prosecuted for
the same offense in the courts of the other. But, as appears from
the quotation we have just made, it is not limited to this. It
extends to civil, as well as criminal, matters, and is broadly a
grant of jurisdiction to each of the states.

															The present case is not one of the prosecution for an offense
malum in se, but for one simply malum prohibitum.
Doubtless the same rule would apply if the act were prohibited by
each state separately; but where, as here, the act is prohibited by
one state and in terms authorized by the other, can the one state
which prohibits, prosecute and punish for the act done within the
territorial limits of the other? Obviously the grant

															Page 212 U. S. 321

															of concurrent jurisdiction may bring up, from time to time, many
and some curious and difficult questions, so we promptly confine
ourselves to the precise question presented. The plaintiff in error
was within the limits of the State of Washington, doing an act
which that state in terms authorized and gave him a license to do.
Can the State of Oregon, by virtue of its concurrent jurisdiction,
disregard that authority, practically override the legislation of
Washington, and punish a man for doing within the territorial
limits of Washington an act which that state had specially
authorized him to do? We are of opinion that it cannot. It is not
at all impossible that, in some instances, the interests of the two
states may be different. Certainly, as appears in the present case,
the opinion of the legislatures of the two states is different, and
the one state cannot enforce its opinion against that of the other
-- at least as to an act done within the limits of that other
state. Whether, if the act of the plaintiff in error had been done
within the territorial limits of the State of Oregon, it would make
any difference we need not determine, nor whether, in the absence
of any legislation by the State of Washington authorizing the act,
Oregon could enforce its statute against the act done anywhere upon
the waters of the Columbia. Neither is it necessary to consider
whether the prosecution should be in the names of the two states
jointly. It is enough to decide, as we do, that for an act done
within the territorial limits of the State of Washington under
authority and license from that state, one cannot be prosecuted and
punished by the State of Oregon.

															There is little authority upon this precise question, but
see In re Mattson, U.S. Circuit Court for the District of
Oregon, 69 F. 535, and Ex Parte Desjeiro, same court, 152
F. 1004. See also Roberts v. Fullerton, 117 Wis. 222;
Rorer, Interstate Law, p. 438, and following.

															The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Oregon is
reversed, and the case remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.

