::SCDB_caseID:: 2021-036
::decision_cite:: 21A240
::decision_name::  Biden v. Missouri
::decision_year:: 2022
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															
															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 21A240 and 21A241

															_________________

															JOSEPH R. BIDEN, Jr., PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES, et al., APPLICANTS

															21A240v.

															MISSOURI, et al.

															

															XAVIER BECERRA, SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, et al., APPLICANTS

															21A241v.

															LOUISIANA, et al.

															on applications for stays

															 [January 13, 2022]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas, Justice Gorsuch, and Justice Barrett join, dissenting.

															I join Justice Thomas’s dissent because I do not think that the Federal Government is likely to be able to show that Congress has authorized the unprecedented step of compelling over 10,000,000 healthcare workers to be vaccinated on pain of being fired.  The support for the argument that the Federal Government possesses such authority is so obscure that the main argument now pressed by the Government—that the authority is conferred by a hodgepodge of scattered provisions—was not prominently set out by the Government until its reply brief in this Court.  Before concluding that the Federal Government possesses this authority, we should demand stronger statutory proof than has been mustered to date.

															But even if the Federal Government has the authority to require the vaccination of healthcare workers, it did not have the authority to impose that requirement in the way it did.  Under our Constitution, the authority to make laws that impose obligations on the American people is conferred on Congress, whose Members are elected by the people.  Elected representatives solicit the views of their constituents, listen to their complaints and requests, and make a great effort to accommodate their concerns.  Today, however, most federal law is not made by Congress.  It comes in the form of rules issued by unelected administrators.  In order to give individuals and entities who may be seriously impacted by agency rules at least some opportunity to make their views heard and to have them given serious consideration, Congress has clearly required that agencies comply with basic procedural safeguards.  Except in rare cases, an agency must provide public notice of proposed rules, 5 U. S. C. §553(b); the public must be given the opportunity to comment on those proposals, §553(c); and if the agency issues the rule, it must address concerns raised during the notice-and-comment process.  United States v. Nova Scotia Food Products Corp., 568 F.2d 240, 252 (CA2 1977); see also Motor Vehicle Mfrs. Assn. of United States, Inc. v. State Farm Mut. Automobile Ins. Co., 463 U.S. 29, 43 (1983).  The rule may then be challenged in court, and the court may declare the rule unlawful if these procedures have not been followed.

															In these cases, the relevant agency did none of those things, and the Court rewards this extraordinary departure from ordinary principles of administrative procedure.  Although today’s ruling means only that the Federal Government is likely to be able to show that this departure is lawful, not that it actually is so, this ruling has an importance that extends beyond the confines of these cases.  It may have a lasting effect on Executive Branch behavior.

															Because of the importance of notice-and-comment rulemaking, an agency must show “good cause” if it wishes to skip that process.  5 U. S. C. §553(b)(3)(B).  Although this Court has never precisely defined what an agency must do to demonstrate good cause, federal courts have consistently held that exceptions to notice-and-comment must be “ ‘narrowly construed and only reluctantly countenanced.’ ”  Mack Trucks, Inc. v. EPA, 682 F.3d 87, 93 (CADC 2012) (quoting Utility Solid Waste Activities Group v. EPA, 236 F.3d 749, 754 (CADC 2001)); see also C. Koch & R. Murphy, Good Cause for Avoiding Procedures, 1 Admin. L. & Prac. §4:13 (3d ed. 2021).

															The agency that issued the mandate at issue here, i.e., the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), admits it did not comply with the commonsense measure of seeking public input before placing binding rules on millions of people, but it claims that “[t]he data showing the vital importance of vaccination” indicate that it “cannot delay taking this action.”  86 Fed. Reg. 61555, 61583 (2021).  But CMS’s generalized justification cannot alone establish good cause to dispense with Congress’s clear procedural safeguards.  An agency seeking to show good cause must “point to something specific that illustrates a particular harm that will be caused by the delay required for notice and comment.”  United States v. Brewer, 766 F.3d 884, 890 (CA8 2014) (internal quotation marks omitted).

															Although CMS argues that an emergency justifies swift action, both District Courts below held that CMS fatally undercut that justification with its own repeated delays.  The vaccines that CMS now claims are vital had been widely available 10 months before CMS’s mandate, and millions of healthcare workers had already been vaccinated before the agency took action.  President Biden announced the CMS mandate on September 9, 2021, nearly two months before the agency released the rule on November 5, and the mandate itself delayed the compliance deadline further by another month until December 6. 86 Fed. Reg. 61555; id., at 61573 (making implementation of the vaccine mandate begin “30 days after publication” and completed “60 days after publication”).  This is hardly swift.

															CMS argues that its delay, “even if true,” does not provide a “reason to block a rule” that it claims will protect patient health.  Application in No. 21A241, p. 36.  It claims that its departure from ordinary procedure after extraordinary delay should be excused because nobody can show they were prejudiced by the lack of a comment period before the rule took effect.  But it is CMS’s affirmative burden to show it has good cause, not respondents’ burden to prove the negative.  Northern Arapahoe Tribe v. Hodel, 808 F.2d 741, 751 (CA10 1987).  Congress placed procedural safeguards on executive rulemaking so agencies would consider “important aspect[s] of the problem[s]” they seek to address before restricting the liberty of the people they regulate.  State Farm, 463 U. S., at 43.  Because CMS chose to circumvent notice-and-comment, States that run Medicaid facilities, as well as other regulated parties, had no opportunity to present evidence refuting or contradicting CMS’s justifications before the rule bound them.  And because CMS acknowledged its own “uncertainty” and the “rapidly changing nature of the current pandemic,” 86 Fed. Reg. 61589, it should have been more receptive to feedback, not less.  “[A]n utter failure to comply with notice and comment cannot be considered harmless if there is any uncertainty at all as to the effect of that failure.”  Sugar Cane Growers Cooperative of Florida v. Veneman, 289 F.3d 89, 96 (CADC 2002).

															Today’s decision will ripple through administrative agencies’ future decisionmaking.  The Executive Branch already touches nearly every aspect of Americans’ lives.  In concluding that CMS had good cause to avoid notice-and-comment rulemaking, the Court shifts the presumption against compliance with procedural strictures from the unelected agency to the people they regulate.  Neither CMS nor the Court articulates a limiting principle for why, after an unexplained and unjustified delay, an agency can regulate first and listen later, and then put more than 10 million healthcare workers to the choice of their jobs or an irreversible medical treatment.

															Therefore, I respectfully dissent.
													
