::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-138
::decision_name::  Counterman v. Colorado
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–138

															_________________

															BILLY RAYMOND COUNTERMAN, PETITIONER v.
COLORADO

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeals
of colorado

															[June 27, 2023]

															

															Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															True threats of violence are outside the bounds
of First Amendment protection and punishable as crimes. Today we
consider a criminal conviction for communications falling within
that historically unprotected category. The question presented is
whether the First Amendment still requires proof that the defendant
had some subjective understanding of the threatening nature of his
statements. We hold that it does, but that a mental state of
recklessness is sufficient. The State must show that the defendant
consciously disregarded a substantial risk that his communications
would be viewed as threatening violence. The State need not prove
any more demanding form of subjective intent to threaten
another.

															I

															From 2014 to 2016, petitioner Billy Counterman
sent hundreds of Facebook messages to C. W., a local singer and
musician. The two had never met, and C. W. never responded. In
fact, she repeatedly blocked Counterman. But each time, he created
a new Facebook account and resumed his contacts. Some of his
messages were utterly prosaic (“Good morning
sweetheart”; “I am going to the store would you like
anything?”)—except that they were coming from a total
stranger. 3 App. 465. Others suggested that Counterman might be
surveilling C. W. He asked “[w]as that you in the white
Jeep?”; referenced “[a] fine display with your
partner”; and noted “a couple [of] physical
sightings.” 497 P.3d 1039, 1044 (Colo. App. 2021). And most
critically, a number expressed anger at C. W. and envisaged harm
befalling her: “Fuck off permanently.” Ibid.
“Staying in cyber life is going to kill you.”
Ibid. “You’re not being good for human
relations. Die.” Ibid.

															The messages put C. W. in fear and upended her
daily existence. She believed that Counterman was
“threat[ening her] life”; “was very fearful that
he was following” her; and was “afraid [she] would get
hurt.” 2 App. 177, 181, 193. As a result, she had “a
lot of trouble sleeping” and suffered from severe anxiety.
Id., at 200; see id., at 194–198. She stopped
walking alone, declined social engagements, and canceled some of
her performances, though doing so caused her financial strain. See
id., at 182–183, 199, 201–206, 238–239.
Eventually, C. W. decided that she had to contact the
authorities. Id., at 184.

															Colorado charged Counterman under a statute
making it unlawful to “[r]epeatedly . . .
make[ ] any form of communication with another person”
in “a manner that would cause a reasonable person to suffer
serious emotional distress and does cause that person
. . . to suffer serious emotional distress.” Colo.
Rev. Stat. §18–3–602(1)(c) (2022). The only
evidence the State proposed to introduce at trial were his Facebook
messages.[1]

															Counterman moved to dismiss the charge on First
Amendment grounds, arguing that his messages were not “true
threats” and therefore could not form the basis of a criminal
prosecution. In line with Colorado law, the trial court assessed
the true-threat issue using an “objective ‘reasonable
person’ standard.” People v. Cross,

127 P.3d 71, 76 (Colo. 2006). Under that standard, the State
had to show that a reasonable person would have viewed the Facebook
messages as threatening. By contrast, the State had no need to
prove that Counterman had any kind of “subjective intent to
threaten” C. W. In re R. D., 464 P.3d
717, 731, n. 21 (Colo. 2020). The court decided, after
“consider[ing] the totality of the circumstances,” that
Counterman’s statements “r[o]se to the level of a true
threat.” 497 P. 3d, at 1045. Because that was so, the court
ruled, the First Amendment posed no bar to prosecution. The court
accordingly sent the case to the jury, which found Counterman
guilty as charged.

															The Colorado Court of Appeals affirmed.
Counterman had urged the court to hold that the First Amendment
required the State to show that he was aware of the threatening
nature of his statements. Relying on its precedent, the court
turned the request down: It “decline[d] today to say that a
speaker’s subjective intent to threaten is necessary”
under the First Amendment to procure a conviction for threatening
communications. Id., at 1046 (quoting R. D., 464
P. 3d, at 731, n. 21). Using the established objective
standard, the court then approved the trial court’s ruling
that Counterman’s messages were “true threats”
and so were not protected by the First Amendment. 497 P. 3d, at
1050. The Colorado Supreme Court denied review.

															Courts are divided about (1) whether the First
Amendment requires proof of a defendant’s subjective mindset
in true-threats cases, and (2) if so, what mens rea standard
is sufficient. We therefore granted certiorari. 598 U. S. ___
(2023).

															II

															True threats of violence, everyone agrees, lie
outside the bounds of the First Amendment’s protection. And a
statement can count as such a threat based solely on its objective
content. The first dispute here is about whether the First
Amendment nonetheless demands that the State in a true-threats case
prove that the defendant was aware in some way of the threatening
nature of his communications.[2] Colorado argues that there is no such requirement.
Counterman contends that there is one, based mainly on the
likelihood that the absence of such a mens rea requirement
will chill protected, non-threatening speech. Counterman’s
view, we decide today, is the more consistent with our precedent.
To combat the kind of chill he references, our decisions have often
insisted on protecting even some historically unprotected speech
through the adoption of a subjective mental-state element. We
follow the same path today, holding that the State must prove in
true-threats cases that the defendant had some understanding of his
statements’ threatening character. The second issue here
concerns what precise mens rea standard suffices for the
First Amendment purpose at issue. Again guided by our precedent, we
hold that a recklessness standard is enough. Given that a
subjective standard here shields speech not independently entitled
to protection—and indeed posing real dangers—we do not
require that the State prove the defendant had any more specific
intent to threaten the victim.

															A

															“From 1791 to the present,” the
First Amendment has “permitted restrictions upon the content
of speech in a few limited areas.” United States v.
Stevens, 559 U.S.
460, 468 (2010). These “historic and traditional
categories” are “long familiar to the bar” and
perhaps, too, the general public. Ibid. One is
incitement—statements “directed [at] producing imminent
lawless action,” and likely to do so. Brandenburg v.
Ohio, 395 U.S.
444, 447 (1969) (per curiam). Another is
defamation—false statements of fact harming another’s
reputation. See Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc.,
418 U.S.
323, 340, 342 (1974). Still a third is
obscenity—valueless material “appeal[ing] to the
prurient interest” and describing “sexual
conduct” in “a patently offensive way.”
Miller v. California, 413 U.S.
15, 24 (1973). This Court has “often described [those]
historically unprotected categories of speech as being of such
slight social value as a step to truth that any benefit that may be
derived from them is clearly outweighed by the social
interest” in their proscription. Stevens, 559
U. S., at 470 (internal quotation marks omitted; emphasis
deleted).

															“True threats” of violence is
another historically unprotected category of communications.
Virginia v. Black, 538
U.S. 343, 359 (2003); see United States v.
Alvarez, 567 U.S.
709, 717–718 (2012) (plurality opinion). The
“true” in that term distinguishes what is at issue from
jests, “hyperbole,” or other statements that when taken
in context do not convey a real possibility that violence will
follow (say, “I am going to kill you for showing up
late”). Watts v. United States, 394 U.S.
705, 708 (1969) (per curiam). True threats are
“serious expression[s]” conveying that a speaker means
to “commit an act of unlawful violence.” Black,
538 U. S., at 359. Whether the speaker is aware of, and
intends to convey, the threatening aspect of the message is not
part of what makes a statement a threat, as this Court recently
explained. See Elonis v. United States, 575 U.S. 723,
733 (2015). The existence of a threat depends not on “the
mental state of the author,” but on “what the statement
conveys” to the person on the other end. Ibid. When
the statement is understood as a true threat, all the harms that
have long made threats unprotected naturally follow. True threats
subject individuals to “fear of violence” and to the
many kinds of “disruption that fear engenders.”
Black, 538 U. S., at 360 (internal quotation marks
omitted). The facts of this case well illustrate how.[3]

															Yet the First Amendment may still demand a
subjective mental-state requirement shielding some true threats
from liability. The reason relates to what is often called a
chilling effect. Prohibitions on speech have the potential to
chill, or deter, speech outside their boundaries. A speaker may be
unsure about the side of a line on which his speech falls. Or he
may worry that the legal system will err, and count speech that is
permissible as instead not. See Philadelphia Newspapers,
Inc. v. Hepps, 475 U.S.
767, 777 (1986). Or he may simply be concerned about the
expense of becoming entangled in the legal system. The result is
“self-censorship” of speech that could not be
proscribed—a “cautious and restrictive exercise”
of First Amendment freedoms. Gertz, 418 U. S., at 340.
And an important tool to prevent that outcome—to stop people
from steering “wide[ ] of the unlawful
zone”—is to condition liability on the State’s
showing of a culpable mental state. Speiser v.
Randall, 357 U.S.
513, 526 (1958). Such a requirement comes at a cost: It will
shield some otherwise proscribable (here, threatening) speech
because the State cannot prove what the defendant thought. But the
added element reduces the prospect of chilling fully protected
expression. As this Court has noted, the requirement lessens
“the hazard of self-censorship” by
“compensat[ing]” for the law’s uncertainties.
Mishkin v. New York, 383 U.S.
502, 511 (1966). Or said a bit differently: “[B]y
reducing an honest speaker’s fear that he may accidentally
[or erroneously] incur liability,” a mens rea
requirement “provide[s] ‘breathing room’ for more
valuable speech.” Alvarez, 567 U. S., at 733
(Breyer, J., concurring in judgment).

															That kind of “strategic protection”
features in our precedent concerning the most prominent categories
of historically unprotected speech. Gertz, 418 U. S.,
at 342. Defamation is the best known and best theorized example.
False and defamatory statements of fact, we have held, have
“no constitutional value.” Id., at 340; see
Alvarez, 567 U. S., at 718–719 (plurality
opinion). Yet a public figure cannot recover for the injury such a
statement causes unless the speaker acted with “knowledge
that it was false or with reckless disregard of whether it was
false or not.” New York Times Co. v. Sullivan,
376 U.S.
254, 280 (1964); see Garrison v. Louisiana,
379 U.S.
64, 74 (1964) (using the same standard for criminal libel).
That rule is based on fear of
“self-censorship”—the worry that without such a
subjective mental-state requirement, the uncertainties and expense
of litigation will deter speakers from making even truthful
statements. Sullivan, 376 U. S., at 279. The First
Amendment, we have concluded, “requires that we protect some
falsehood in order to protect speech that matters.”
Gertz, 418 U. S., at 341.

															The same idea arises in the law respecting
obscenity and incitement to unlawful conduct. Like threats,
incitement inheres in particular words used in particular contexts:
Its harm can arise even when a clueless speaker fails to grasp his
expression’s nature and consequence. But still, the First
Amendment precludes punishment, whether civil or criminal, unless
the speaker’s words were “intended” (not just
likely) to produce imminent disorder. Hess v.
Indiana, 414 U.S.
105, 109 (1973) (per curiam); see Brandenburg,
395 U. S., at 447; NAACP v. Claiborne Hardware
Co., 458 U.S.
886, 927–929 (1982). That rule helps prevent a law from
deterring “mere advocacy” of illegal acts—a kind
of speech falling within the First Amendment’s core.
Brandenburg, 395 U. S., at 449. And for a similar
reason, the First Amendment demands proof of a defendant’s
mindset to make out an obscenity case. Obscenity is obscenity,
whatever the purveyor’s mental state. But we have repeatedly
recognized that punishment depends on a “vital element of
scienter”—often described as the defendant’s
awareness of “the character and nature” of the
materials he distributed. Hamling v. United States,
418 U.S.
87, 122–123 (1974); see Elonis, 575 U. S., at
739 (reiterating Hamling). The rationale should by now be
familiar. Yes, “obscene speech and writings are not
protected.” Smith v. California, 361 U.S.
147, 152 (1959). But punishing their distribution without
regard to scienter would “have the collateral effect of
inhibiting” protected expression. Id., at 151. Given
“the ambiguities inherent in the definition of
obscenity,” the First Amendment “requires proof of
scienter to avoid the hazard of self-censorship.”
Mishkin, 383 U. S., at 511.[4]

															The same reasoning counsels in favor of
requiring a subjective element in a true-threats case. This Court
again must consider the prospect of chilling non-threatening
expression, given the ordinary citizen’s predictable tendency
to steer “wide[ ] of the unlawful zone.”
Speiser, 357 U. S., at 526. The speaker’s fear of
mistaking whether a statement is a threat; his fear of the legal
system getting that judgment wrong; his fear, in any event, of
incurring legal costs—all those may lead him to swallow words
that are in fact not true threats. Some 50 years ago, Justice
Marshall made the point when reviewing a true-threats prosecution
arguably involving only political hyperbole. See Rogers v.
United States, 422 U.S.
35 (1975). The Court in Rogers reversed the conviction
on other grounds, but Justice Marshall focused on the danger of
deterring non-threatening speech. An objective standard, turning
only on how reasonable observers would construe a statement in
context, would make people give threats “a wide berth.”
Id., at 47 (concurring opinion). And so use of that standard
would discourage the “uninhibited, robust, and wide-open
debate that the First Amendment is intended to protect.”
Id., at 48 (quoting Sullivan, 376 U. S., at
270).

															The reasoning—and indeed some of the
words—came straight from this Court’s decisions
insisting on a subjective element in other unprotected-speech
cases, whether involving defamation, incitement, or obscenity. No
doubt, the approach in all of those cases has a cost: Even as it
lessens chill of protected speech, it makes prosecution of
otherwise proscribable, and often dangerous, communications harder.
And the balance between those two effects may play out differently
in different contexts, as the next part of this opinion discusses.
But the ban on an objective standard remains the same, lest
true-threats prosecutions chill too much protected, non-threatening
expression.

															B

															The next question concerns the type of
subjective standard the First Amendment requires. The law of
mens rea offers three basic choices. Purpose is the most
culpable level in the standard mental-state hierarchy, and the
hardest to prove. A person acts purposefully when he
“consciously desires” a result—so here, when he
wants his words to be received as threats. United States v.
Bailey, 444 U.S.
394, 404 (1980). Next down, though not often distinguished from
purpose, is knowledge. Ibid. A person acts knowingly when
“he is aware that [a] result is practically certain to
follow”—so here, when he knows to a practical certainty
that others will take his words as threats. Ibid. (internal
quotation marks omitted). A greater gap separates those two from
recklessness. A person acts recklessly, in the most common
formulation, when he “consciously disregard[s] a substantial
[and unjustifiable] risk that the conduct will cause harm to
another.” Voisine v. United States, 579 U.S.
686, 691 (2016) (internal quotation marks omitted). That standard
involves insufficient concern with risk, rather than awareness of
impending harm. See Borden v. United States, 593
U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 5).
But still, recklessness is morally culpable conduct, involving a
“deliberate decision to endanger another.”
Voisine, 579 U. S., at 694. In the threats context, it
means that a speaker is aware “that others could regard his
statements as” threatening violence and “delivers them
anyway.” Elonis, 575 U. S., at 746 (Alito, J.,
concurring in part and dissenting in part).[5]

															Among those standards, recklessness offers the
right path forward. We have so far mostly focused on the
constitutional interest in free expression, and on the correlative
need to take into account threat prosecutions’ chilling
effects. But the precedent we have relied on has always
recognized—and insisted on
“accommodat[ing]”—the “competing
value[ ]” in regulating historically unprotected
expression. Gertz, 418 U. S., at 348. Here, as we have
noted, that value lies in protecting against the profound harms, to
both individuals and society, that attend true threats of
violence—as evidenced in this case. See supra, at 2,
6. The injury associated with those statements caused history long
ago to place them outside the First Amendment’s bounds. When
despite that judgment we require use of a subjective mental-state
standard, we necessarily impede some true-threat prosecutions. And
as we go up the subjective mens rea ladder, that imposition
on States’ capacity to counter true threats becomes still
greater—and, presumably, with diminishing returns for
protected expression. In advancing past recklessness, we make it
harder for a State to substantiate the needed inferences about
mens rea (absent, as is usual, direct evidence). And of
particular importance, we prevent States from convicting morally
culpable defendants. See Elonis, 575 U. S., at 745
(opinion of Alito, J.). For reckless defendants have done more than
make a bad mistake. They have consciously accepted a substantial
risk of inflicting serious harm.

															Using a recklessness standard also fits with the
analysis in our defamation decisions. As noted earlier, the Court
there adopted a recklessness rule, applicable in both civil and
criminal contexts, as a way of accommodating competing interests.
See supra, at 7–8. In the more than half-century in
which that standard has governed, few have suggested that it needs
to be higher—in other words, that still more First Amendment
“breathing space” is required. Gertz, 418
U. S., at 342. And we see no reason to offer greater
insulation to threats than to defamation. See Elonis, 575
U. S., at 748 (opinion of Alito, J.). The societal interests
in countering the former are at least as high. And the protected
speech near the borderline of true threats (even though sometimes
political, as in Rogers) is, if anything, further from the
First Amendment’s central concerns than the chilled speech in
Sullivan-type cases (i.e., truthful
reputation-damaging statements about public officials and
figures).

															It is true that our incitement decisions demand
more—but the reason for that demand is not present here. When
incitement is at issue, we have spoken in terms of specific intent,
presumably equivalent to purpose or knowledge. See Hess, 414
U. S., at 109; supra, at 8. In doing so, we recognized
that incitement to disorder is commonly a hair’s-breadth away
from political “advocacy”—and particularly from
strong protests against the government and prevailing social order.
Brandenburg, 395 U. S., at 447. Such protests gave rise
to all the cases in which the Court demanded a showing of intent.
See ibid.; Hess, 414 U. S., at 106; Claiborne
Hardware Co., 458 U. S., at 888, 928. And the Court
decided those cases against a resonant historical backdrop: the
Court’s failure, in an earlier era, to protect mere advocacy
of force or lawbreaking from legal sanction. See, e.g.,
Whitney v. California, 274 U.S.
357 (1927); Gitlow v. New York, 268 U.S.
652 (1925); Abrams v. United States, 250 U.S.
616 (1919). A strong intent requirement was, and remains, one
way to guarantee history was not repeated. It was a way to ensure
that efforts to prosecute incitement would not bleed over, either
directly or through a chilling effect, to dissenting political
speech at the First Amendment’s core. But the potency of that
protection is not needed here. For the most part, the speech on the
other side of the true-threats boundary line—as compared with
the advocacy addressed in our incitement decisions—is neither
so central to the theory of the First Amendment nor so vulnerable
to government prosecutions. It is not just that our incitement
decisions are distinguishable; it is more that they compel the use
of a distinct standard here.[6]

															That standard, again, is recklessness. It offers
“enough ‘breathing space’ for protected
speech,” without sacrificing too many of the benefits of
enforcing laws against true threats. Elonis, 575 U. S.,
at 748 (opinion of Alito, J.). As with any balance, something is
lost on both sides: The rule we adopt today is neither the most
speech-protective nor the most sensitive to the dangers of true
threats. But in declining one of those two alternative paths,
something more important is gained: Not “having it
all”—because that is impossible—but having much
of what is important on both sides of the scale.[7]

															III

															It is time to return to Counterman’s
case, though only a few remarks are necessary. Counterman, as
described above, was prosecuted in accordance with an objective
standard. See supra, at 3. The State had to show only that a
reasonable person would understand his statements as threats. It
did not have to show any awareness on his part that the statements
could be understood that way. For the reasons stated, that is a
violation of the First Amendment.

															We accordingly vacate the judgment of the
Colorado Court of Appeals and remand the case for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 The statute Counterman
was charged with violating is titled a “stalking”
statute and also prohibits “[r]epeatedly follow[ing],
approach[ing], contact[ing], [or] plac[ing] under
surveillance” another person.
§18–3–602(1)(c). But the State had no evidence,
beyond what Counterman claimed, that he actually had followed or
surveilled C. W. For example, C. W. had never noticed anything
of that kind. So the prosecution based its case solely on
Counterman’s “[r]epeated[ ] . . .
communication[s]” with C. W. Ibid.
2
 A preliminary
clarification may be useful, concerning the difference between
awareness of a communication’s contents and awareness of its
threatening nature. Everyone agrees, again, that the State must
prove the former—and Colorado law appears to hold as much.
See Colo. Rev. Stat. §18–3–602(1)(c); Brief for
Respondent 18. So, for example, if a defendant delivers a sealed
envelope without knowing that a threatening letter is inside, he
cannot be liable for the communication. So too (though this common
example seems fairly preposterous) if a “foreigner, ignorant
of the English language, who would not know the meaning of the
words,” somehow manages to convey an English-language threat.
Elonis v. United States, 575 U.S. 723, 738 (2015)
(internal quotation marks omitted). The question in this case
arises when the defendant (unlike in those hypotheticals)
understands the content of the words, but may not grasp that others
would find them threatening. Must he do so, under the First
Amendment, for a true-threats prosecution to succeed?
3
 The concurrence relies on
Virginia v. Black, 538 U.S.
343 (2003), to argue that the category of true threats itself
incorporates a mens rea element. See post, at
9–11, 14 (Sotomayor, J., concurring in part and concurring in
judgment). But that claim is based on a misreading. The statements
the concurrence quotes merely reflect that the statute involved in
the case required a showing of intent. Black did not address
whether the First Amendment demands such a showing, or why it might
do so. See United States v. Jeffries, 692 F.3d 473,
479–480 (CA6 2012) (Sutton, J.); see also post, at
9–10, and n. 4 (Barrett, J., dissenting) (explaining
that Black concerned a different part of the statute,
preventing consideration of contextual factors in assessing whether
a statement was a threat).
4
 The dissent, in urging an
objective standard here, reads the obscenity decisions as requiring
merely that the defendant know “what the material
depicts” (as a speaker must know a communication’s
contents). Post, at 5–6 (opinion of Barrett, J.)
(relying on Hamling, 418 U. S., at 120–123). But
see the statements quoted above: That is not what they say. And
indeed, this Court recently rejected the dissent’s
revisionist reading, explaining in detail—and in response to
a near-identical argument—that the obscenity decisions demand
awareness of “the character of [the materials,] not
simply [their] contents.” Elonis, 575 U. S., at
739–740 (discussing Hamling, 418 U. S., at
120–123, and Mishkin, 383 U. S., at 510). The
dissent’s use of two other First Amendment
categories—fighting words and false commercial
speech—to support an objective test also falls flat. See
post, at 3–4 (opinion of Barrett, J.). This Court has
not upheld a conviction under the fighting-words doctrine in 80
years. At the least, that doctrine is today a poor candidate for
spinning off other First Amendment rules. False commercial speech
is also a poor analog, though for different reasons. Put aside that
the line of cases the dissent invokes has never been listed among
the historically unprotected categories of speech. See,
e.g., United States v. Stevens, 559 U.S.
460, 468 (2010); see supra, at 5. Yet more relevant, the
Court has often noted that commercial speech is less vulnerable to
chill than most other speech is. See, e.g., Board of
Trustees of State Univ. of N. Y. v. Fox, 492 U.S.
469, 481 (1989). And it is the fear of chill that has led to
state-of-mind requirements in the context of unprotected
speech.
5
 Just to complete the
mens rea hierarchy, the last level is negligence—but
that is an objective standard, of the kind we have just rejected. A
person acts negligently if he is not but should be aware of a
substantial risk—here, that others will understand his
words as threats. See Borden, 593 U. S., at ___
(plurality opinion) (slip op., at 5). That makes liability depend
not on what the speaker thinks, but instead on what a reasonable
person would think about whether his statements are threatening in
nature. See Elonis, 575 U. S., at 738 (“Having
liability turn on whether a reasonable person regards the
communication as a threat—regardless of what the defendant
thinks—reduces culpability . . . to
negligence” (internal quotation marks omitted)).
6
 Our obscenity decisions
are of no help in this inquiry, because the Court has never
determined the precise mens rea needed to impose punishment.
In arguing to the contrary, the concurrence relies mainly on
Hamling. Post, at 18–19 (opinion of Sotomayor,
J.). But if the dissent is wrong in saying that Hamling (and
other obscenity decisions) allowed an objective inquiry, see
supra, at 9, n. 4, the concurrence is wrong in suggesting
that it required use of a purpose or knowledge standard. As to the
concurrence’s claim, Hamling held only that a statute
with that standard was “constitutionally sufficient.”
418 U. S., at 123. The decision said nothing about whether it
was constitutionally necessary, or instead whether a recklessness
standard would suffice as well.
7
 The dissent accuses the
Court of making a “Goldilocks judgment” in favoring a
recklessness standard. Post, at 13 (opinion of Barrett, J.).
But in law, as in life, there are worse things than being
“just right.”


