::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-196
::decision_name::  Samia v. United States
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Barrett
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–196

															_________________

															ADAM SAMIA, aka SAL, aka ADAM SAMIC,
PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 23, 2023]

															

															Justice Barrett, concurring in part and
concurring in the judgment.

															I agree that the admission of Stillwell’s
modified confession, together with a limiting instruction, did not
violate the Confrontation Clause. But in my view, the historical
evidence described in Part II–A, ante, is beside the
point.

															First is a timing problem. The evidence is
largely from the late 19th and early 20th centuries—far too
late to inform the meaning of the Confrontation Clause “at
the time of the founding.” Crawford v.
Washington, 541 U.S.
36, 54 (2004). The Court seems to agree, because it does not
suggest that the history is probative of original meaning. But nor
does it explain why this seemingly random time period matters. For
whatever reason (the parties only speculate), there appears to be
little founding-era evidence illustrating how courts handled the
admission of a codefendant’s confession. So why not simply
say that the history is inconclusive? And if we are going to pick
up the thread in 1878, why drop it in 1896? Ante, at 7. Are
cases from 1896 that much more important than cases from, say, the
1940s? While the Court makes a claim about “longstanding
practice” for “most of our Nation’s
history,” ante, at 6, it describes only a
snapshot.

															That brings me to my second problem: the
substance of the snapshot. The cited cases address the rules of
evidence rather than the Confrontation Clause. Ante, at
6–8. On top of that, the two federal cases do not discuss the
effectiveness of limiting instructions, much less any need for
redaction. Sparf v. United States holds that the
co-conspirator exception to the hearsay rule does not apply to
statements made after the conspiracy has ended. 156 U.S.
51, 56 (1895). Emphasizing the trial court’s error in
admitting the statements against both defendants, the Court
explained that the trial court should have admitted them against
the speaker and excluded them against his codefendant. Id.,
at 58. Neither limiting instructions nor redaction came up.
United States v. Ball is similarly tangential to
Samia’s case. 163 U.S.
662 (1896). There, the Court held that the trial court had not
abused its discretion in trying three codefendants together.
Id., at 672. As support for that point, the Court noted that
when the Government introduced the admissions of one defendant,
“the [trial] court at once said, in the presence of the jury,
that, of course, it would be only evidence against him, if he said
anything; and the court was not afterwards requested to make any
further ruling upon this point.” Ibid. The Court
assumed in passing that the limiting instruction was
effective—but the codefendants did not argue otherwise, and
they did not ask the court to alter the statements.

															The two state cases at least address (and
endorse) the use of a limiting instruction after the admission of a
codefendant’s confession. State v. Workman 15
S. C. 540, 545 (1881); Jones v. Commonwealth, 72
Va. 836, 839–840 (1878). One even holds that a trial court
should not alter a statement by redacting a codefendant’s
name. Workman, 15 S. C., at 545. Like the federal
cases, though, the state cases make no mention of the confrontation
right. Same for the treatises cited by the Court. See S. Phillipps,
Law of Evidence *82–*83 (1816); 3 J. Wigmore, Evidence
§2100, p. 2841, and n. 5 (1904). So for all we know, the cases
cited by the Court and the treatises proceed from the premise that
an ordinary hearsay rule, as opposed to a constitutional right, was
on the line. That weakens the importance of these sources, because
courts might have gone to greater lengths (for example, redaction)
to ensure that a jury did not consider a declaration whose
admission would violate the State or Federal Constitution.
Bruton v. United States, after all, grounds itself in
the Sixth Amendment. 391 U.S.
123, 126 (1968).

															At best, the evidence recounted in Part
II–A shows that, during a narrow historical period, some
courts assumed and others expressly held that a limiting
instruction sufficiently protected a codefendant from a declaration
inadmissible on hearsay grounds. In suggesting anything more, the
Court overclaims. That is unfortunate. While history is often
important and sometimes dispositive, we should be discriminating in
its use. Otherwise, we risk undermining the force of historical
arguments when they matter most.

													
