::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-196
::decision_name::  Samia v. United States
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–196

															_________________

															ADAM SAMIA, aka SAL, aka ADAM SAMIC,
PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 23, 2023]

															Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															Prosecutors have long tried criminal defendants
jointly in cases where the defendants are alleged to have engaged
in a common criminal scheme. However, when prosecutors seek to
introduce a nontestifying defendant’s confession implicating
his codefendants, a constitutional concern may arise. The
Confrontation Clause of the Sixth Amendment states that,
“[i]n all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the
right . . . to be confronted with the witnesses against
him.” And, in Bruton v. United States,
391 U.S.
123 (1968), this Court “held that a defendant is deprived
of his rights under the Confrontation Clause when his nontestifying
codefendant’s confession naming him as a participant in the
crime is introduced at their joint trial, even if the jury is
instructed to consider that confession only against the
codefendant.” Richardson v. Marsh, 481 U.S.
200, 201–202 (1987).

															Here, we must determine whether the
Confrontation Clause bars the admission of a nontestifying
codefendant’s confession where (1) the confession has been
modified to avoid directly identifying the nonconfessing
codefendant

															and (2) the court offers a limiting instruction
that jurors may consider the confession only with respect to the
confessing codefendant. Considering longstanding historical
practice, the general presumption that jurors follow their
instructions, and the relevant precedents of this Court, we
conclude that it does not.

															I

															Petitioner Adam Samia traveled to the
Philippines in 2012 to work for crime lord Paul LeRoux. While
there, LeRoux tasked Samia, Joseph Hunter, and Carl Stillwell with
killing Catherine Lee, a local real-estate broker who LeRoux
believed had stolen money from him. Lee was found dead shortly
thereafter, shot twice in the face at close range.

															Later that year, LeRoux was arrested by the
U. S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and became a
cooperating witness for the Government. Hunter, Samia, and
Stillwell were arrested thereafter. During a search of
Samia’s home, law enforcement found a camera containing
surveillance photographs of Lee’s home as well as a key to
the van in which Lee had been murdered. And, during
Stillwell’s arrest, law enforcement found a cell phone
containing thumbnail images of Lee’s dead body. Later, during
a postarrest interview with DEA agents, Stillwell waived his rights
under Miranda v. Arizona, 384
U.S. 436 (1966), and gave a confession. Stillwell admitted that
he had been in the van when Lee was killed, but he claimed that he
was only the driver and that Samia had shot Lee.

															The Government charged all three men in a
multicount indictment. Samia and Stillwell were each charged with
conspiracy to commit murder-for-hire, in violation of 18
U. S. C. §1958(a); murder-for-hire, in violation of
§1958(a); conspiracy to murder and kidnap in a foreign
country, in violation of §956(a)(1); causing death with a
firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence, in violation
of §§924(c)(1)(A) and (j); and conspiracy to launder
money, in violation of §1956(h). Hunter was charged with all
but the money-laundering count. Thereafter, the Government tried
all three men jointly in the Southern District of New York. While
Hunter and Stillwell admitted that they had participated in the
murder, Samia maintained his innocence.

															Prior to trial, the Government moved in
limine to admit Stillwell’s confession. But, because
Stillwell would not testify and the full confession inculpated
Samia, the Government proposed that an agent testify as to the
content of Stillwell’s confession in a way that eliminated
Samia’s name while avoiding any obvious indications of
redaction. The District Court granted the Government’s motion
but required further alterations to ensure consistency with its
understanding of this Court’s Confrontation Clause
precedents, including Bruton.[1]

															At trial, the Government’s theory of the
case was that Hunter had hired Samia and Stillwell to pose as
real-estate buyers and visit properties with Lee. The Government
also sought to prove that Samia, Stillwell, and Lee were in a van
that Stillwell was driving when Samia shot Lee. During its case in
chief, in accordance with the court’s ruling on its motion
in limine, the Government presented testimony about
Stillwell’s confession through DEA Agent Eric Stouch. Stouch
recounted the key portion of Stillwell’s confession
implicating Samia as follows:

															“Q. Did [Stillwell] say where [the
victim] was when she was killed?

															“A. Yes. He described a time when
the other person he was with pulled the trigger on that
woman in a van that he and Mr. Stillwell was driving.” App.
76 (emphasis added).

															Other portions of Stouch’s testimony also
used the “other person” descriptor to refer to someone
with whom Stillwell had traveled and lived and who carried a
particular firearm. During Stouch’s testimony, the District
Court instructed the jury that his testimony was admissible only as
to Stillwell and should not be considered as to Samia or Hunter.
The District Court later provided a similar limiting instruction
before the jury began its deliberations.

															The jury convicted Samia and his codefendants on
all counts, and the District Court subsequently denied
Samia’s post-trial motions. The District Court then sentenced
Samia to life plus 10 years’ imprisonment.

															Samia appealed to the Second Circuit. On appeal,
and as relevant here, he argued that the admission of
Stillwell’s confession—even as altered and with a
limiting instruction—was constitutional error because other
evidence and statements at trial enabled the jury to immediately
infer that the “other person” described in the
confession was Samia himself. He noted that, during opening
statements, the Government had asserted that Stillwell drove the
van while Samia “was in the passenger seat,” and that
Samia pulled out a gun, “turned around, aimed carefully and
shot [Lee].” Id., at 52. He also pointed out that the
Government had stated that “Stillwell admitted to driving the
car while the man he was with turned around and shot [Lee].”
Id., at 58. So, even though Samia’s position in the
van and shooting of Lee were relevant to the Government’s
theory of the case with or without Stillwell’s confession,
Samia argued that those statements would allow the jury to infer
that he was the “other person” in Stillwell’s
confession.

															Samia made the same argument with respect to
several pieces of trial evidence. For example, he pointed out that
the Government had elicited testimony that Samia and Stillwell
coordinated their travel to the Philippines and lived together
there. Samia noted that there was testimony that he had the type of
gun that was used to shoot Lee. And, he emphasized that, in its
closing argument, the Government argued to the jury that video
evidence showing Hunter speaking about hiring two men to murder Lee
was “admissible against all three defendants,” allowing
the jury to infer that Samia and Stillwell were co-conspirators.
Id., at 199. Finally, Samia argued that, while discussing
Stillwell’s confession, the prosecution had recounted how
Stillwell “described a time when the other person he was with
[in the Philippines] pulled the trigger on that woman in a van that
Stillwell was driving.” Ibid.

															The Second Circuit rejected Samia’s view,
holding that the admission of Stillwell’s confession did not
violate Samia’s Confrontation Clause rights. Applying Circuit
precedent, it pointed to the established practice of replacing a
defendant’s name with a neutral noun or pronoun in a
nontestifying codefendant’s confession. The Second Circuit
also noted that its inquiry considered the altered confession
separate from the other evidence that had been introduced at
trial.

															We granted certiorari to determine whether the
admission of Stillwell’s altered confession, subject to a
limiting instruction, violated Samia’s rights under the
Confrontation Clause. 598 U. S. ___ (2022).

															II

															The Sixth Amendment’s Confrontation
Clause guarantees the right of a criminal defendant “to be
confronted with the witnesses against him.” As we have
explained, this Clause forbids the introduction of out-of-court
“testimonial” statements unless the witness is
unavailable and the defendant has had the chance to cross-examine
the witness previously. See Crawford v. Washington,
541 U.S.
36, 53–54 (2004). Because Stillwell’s formal,
Mirandized confession to authorities, which the Government sought
to introduce at trial, is testimonial, it falls within the
Clause’s ambit. See id., at 52 (“Statements
taken by police officers in the course of interrogations are
. . . testimonial under even a narrow standard”);
Melendez-Diaz v. Massachusetts, 557 U.S.
305, 329 (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring) (explaining that
“the Confrontation Clause is implicated by extrajudicial
statements . . . contained in formalized testimonial
materials, such as affidavits, depositions, prior testimony, or
confessions” (internal quotation marks omitted)).
Nonetheless, the Confrontation Clause applies only to witnesses
“against the accused.” Crawford, 541 U. S.,
at 50. And, “[o]rdinarily, a witness whose testimony is
introduced at a joint trial is not considered to be a witness
‘against’ a defendant if the jury is instructed to
consider that testimony only against a codefendant.”
Richardson, 481 U. S., at 206. This general rule is
consistent with the text of the Clause, historical practice, and
the law’s reliance on limiting instructions in other
contexts.

															A

															For most of our Nation’s history,
longstanding practice allowed a nontestifying codefendant’s
confession to be admitted in a joint trial so long as the jury was
properly instructed not to consider it against the nonconfessing
defendant. While some courts would omit the defendant’s name
or substitute a reference to “another person” (or the
like), it is unclear whether any courts considered such alterations
to be necessary as a categorical matter. In any event, the
combination of such alterations and an appropriate limiting
instruction was generally sufficient to permit the introduction of
such confessions.

															One early treatise explained that, when
“some part of [a confession] concerns other prisoners who are
tried on the same indictment,” “all that can be done is
to direct the jury not to take into their consideration such parts
as affect the other prisoners.” S. Phillipps, Law of Evidence
82 (1816). Another noted that, in English practice, where
confessions were not admissible against third persons, “the
names of such persons were by most judges ordered to be
omitted,” but “by other judges the names were ordered
read and the jury instructed not to use the confession against
them.” 3 J. Wigmore, Evidence §2100, p. 2841, and
n. 5 (1904). “In the United States[,] the latter
practice [was] favored.” Id., n. 5.

															Considerable authority supports this approach.
In Sparf v. United States, 156 U.S.
51, 58 (1895), the Court held that, because codefendant
declarations “were not, in any view of the case, competent
evidence against” another defendant, the trial court should
have admitted them as evidence only against their respective
declarants. Just one year later, in United States v.
Ball, 163 U.S.
662, 672 (1896), a case involving a joint murder trial of three
defendants, the Court approved the use of a limiting instruction to
restrict the jury’s consideration of one defendant’s
incriminatory statements made after the killing had occurred.
Citing Sparf, the Court emphasized that the trial judge had
“said, in the presence of the jury, that, of course, [the one
defendant’s declarations] would be only evidence against
him.” 163 U. S., at 672. State practice was in accord,
permitting the introduction of nontestifying codefendants’
confessions subject only to a limiting instruction. See,
e.g., State v. Workman, 15 S. C. 540, 545
(1881); Jones v. Commonwealth, 72 Va. 836,
839–840 (1878). And, though the Federal Confrontation Clause
did not apply to these proceedings, state constitutions contained
similar terms. See 5 J. Wigmore, Evidence §1397, pp.
155–158, n. 1 (J. Chadbourn rev. 1974) (noting that
virtually every state constitution during the relevant period
contained a provision substantially equivalent to the Federal
Confrontation Clause).

															Notably, none of the early treatises or cases to
which the parties have referred, or that we have discovered,
suggests that a confession naming a codefendant must in
all cases be edited to refer to “another person”
(or something similar) such that the codefendant’s name is
not included in the confession. Accordingly, while it is unclear
whether alteration of any kind was necessary, historical practice
suggests at least that altering a nontestifying codefendant’s
confession not to name the defendant, coupled with a limiting
instruction, was enough to permit the introduction of such
confessions at least as an evidentiary matter.

															B

															This historical evidentiary practice is in
accord with the law’s broader assumption that jurors can be
relied upon to follow the trial judge’s instructions.
Evidence at trial is often admitted for a limited purpose,
accompanied by a limiting instruction. And, our legal system
presumes that jurors will “ ‘attend closely the
particular language of [such] instructions in a criminal case and
strive to understand, make sense of, and follow’ ”
them. United States v. Olano, 507
U.S. 725, 740 (1993).

															The Court has presumed, for example, that jurors
will follow instructions to consider a defendant’s prior
conviction only for purposes of a sentence enhancement and not in
determining whether he committed the criminal acts charged.
Marshall v. Lonberger, 459 U.S.
422, 438, and n. 6 (1983). This presumption works in
tandem with a defendant’s Fifth Amendment right not to
testify against himself, by ensuring that jurors do not draw an
adverse inference from his choice not to testify. Lakeside
v. Oregon, 435 U.S.
333, 338–341 (1978). It also applies to situations with
potentially life-and-death stakes for defendants: A limiting
instruction may be used to instruct jurors to consider mitigating
evidence for purposes of one defendant and not another at the
sentencing stage of a joint capital trial. Kansas v.
Carr, 577 U.S. 108, 124–125 (2016).

															Of particular relevance here, the presumption
that jurors follow limiting instructions applies to statements that
are often substantially more credible and inculpatory than a
codefendant’s confession. For example, this Court has held
that statements elicited from a defendant in violation of
Miranda can be used to impeach the defendant’s
credibility, provided the jury is properly instructed not to
consider them as evidence of guilt. Harris v. New
York, 401 U.S.
222, 223–225 (1971). Such statements, elicited from the
defendant himself, are often some of the most compelling evidence
of guilt available to a jury. By contrast, jurors may cast a
critical eye on accomplice testimony—and, in particular,
self-serving accomplice testimony like Stillwell’s that
accuses another of the most culpable conduct.

															The presumption credits jurors by refusing to
assume that they are either “too ignorant to comprehend, or
were too unmindful of their duty to respect, instructions” of
the court. Pennsylvania Co. v. Roy, 102 U.S.
451, 459 (1880). Moreover, to disregard or to make unnecessary
exceptions to it “would make inroads into th[e] entire
complex code of . . . criminal evidentiary law, and would
threaten other large areas of trial jurisprudence.”
Spencer v. Texas, 385 U.S.
554, 562 (1967). As explained below, we have no reason to do so
here.

															III

															In Bruton v. United States, this
Court “recognized a narrow exception to” the
presumption that juries follow their instructions, holding
“that a defendant is deprived of his Sixth Amendment right of
confrontation when the facially incriminating confession of a
nontestifying codefendant is introduced at their joint
trial,” even with a proper instruction. Richardson,
481 U. S., at 207. In Richardson v. Marsh, the
Court “decline[d] to extend [Bruton] further” to
“confessions that do not name the defendant.”
Id., at 211. Gray v. Maryland, 523 U.S.
185, 194 (1998), later qualified Richardson by holding
that certain obviously redacted confessions might be
“directly accusatory,” and thus fall within
Bruton’s rule, even if they did not specifically use a
defendant’s name.

															Thus, the Court’s precedents distinguish
between confessions that directly implicate a defendant and those
that do so indirectly. Under these precedents, and consistent with
the longstanding historical practice discussed above, the
introduction here of Stillwell’s altered confession coupled
with a limiting instruction did not violate the Confrontation
Clause.

															A

															1

															In Bruton, the Court considered the
joint trial of George Bruton and William Evans for armed postal
robbery. 391 U. S., at 124. During two pretrial
interrogations, Evans confessed to a postal inspector that he and
Bruton—whom he implicated by name—had committed the
robbery. Ibid. The confession was introduced at trial,
coupled with a limiting instruction that it not be used against
Bruton. Id., at 124–125, and n. 1. This Court
held that, “because of the substantial risk that the jury,
despite instructions to the contrary, looked to the incriminating
extrajudicial statements in determining [Bruton]’s guilt,
admission of Evans’ confession in this joint trial violated
[Bruton]’s right of cross-examination secured by the
Confrontation Clause of the Sixth Amendment.” Id., at
126.

															The Court acknowledged that a defendant is
“ ‘entitled to a fair trial but not a perfect
one’ ” and conceded that “[i]t is not
unreasonable to conclude that in many . . . cases the
jury can and will follow the trial judge’s instructions to
disregard [certain] information.” Id., at 135 (quoting
Lutwak v. United States, 344
U.S. 604, 619 (1953)). It even acknowledged that, “[i]f
it were true that the jury disregarded the reference to [Bruton],
no question would arise under the Confrontation Clause.” 391
U. S., at 126. Yet, the Court reasoned that “there are
some contexts in which the risk that the jury will not, or cannot,
follow instructions is so great, and the consequences of failure so
vital to the defendant, that the practical and human limitations of
the jury system cannot be ignored.” Id., at
135. Accordingly, in the Court’s view, “the
introduction of Evans’ confession posed a substantial threat
to [Bruton]’s right to confront the witnesses against
him.” Id., at 137.

															2

															Later, in Richardson, the Court
declined to expand the Bruton rule to a redacted confession
that inculpated the defendant only when viewed in conjunction with
other evidence. There, Clarissa Marsh, Benjamin Williams, and
Kareem Martin were each charged with assault and murder. 481
U. S., at 202. Marsh and Williams were tried jointly for the
crime. Ibid. And, at trial, the State introduced
Williams’ confession, taken by police shortly after his
arrest. Id., at 203. As introduced, however, “[t]he
confession was redacted to omit all reference to
[Marsh]—indeed, to omit all indication that anyone
other than Martin and Williams participated in the crime.”
Ibid. The confession largely corroborated the victim’s
testimony and additionally described a conversation between
Williams and Martin as they drove to the scene of the crime:
“[A]ccording to Williams, Martin said that he would have to
kill the victims after the robbery.” Id., at 204.
Following the confession’s admission, the trial judge
instructed the jury not to use it against Marsh in any way, an
instruction reiterated in the jury charge at the conclusion of
trial. Id., at 204–205. In her testimony, however,
Marsh volunteered that, during the drive to the crime scene, she
“ ‘knew that [Martin and Williams] were
talking’ but could not hear the conversation because
‘the radio was on and the speaker was right in [her]
ear.’ ” Id., at 204 (alternations in
original). Both Marsh and Williams were convicted. Id., at
205.

															In considering the introduction of
Williams’ confession, this Court noted that,
“[o]rdinarily, a witness whose testimony is introduced at a
joint trial is not considered to be a witness ‘against’
a defendant if the jury is instructed to consider that testimony
only against a codefendant,” emphasizing the “almost
invariable assumption of the law that jurors follow their
instructions.” Id., at 206. It then explained that
Bruton represented a “narrow exception to this
principle.” 481 U. S., at 207. Whereas the confession in
Bruton had “ ‘expressly implicated’
the defendant and his accomplice,” the confession in
Richardson “was not incriminating on its face, and
became so only when linked with evidence introduced later at
trial.” 481 U. S., at 208 (citing Bruton, 391
U. S., at 124, n. 1). The former evidence, the Court
explained, is “more vivid” and thus “more
difficult to thrust out of mind.” 481 U. S., at 208.
Additionally, in the case of inferential incrimination, the Court
posited that “the judge’s instruction may well be
successful in dissuading the jury from entering onto the path of
inference,” leaving “no incrimination to forget.”
Ibid.[2]

															3

															Gray then confronted a question
Richardson expressly left open: whether a confession altered
“by substituting for the defendant’s name in the
confession a blank space or the word
‘deleted’ ” violated the Confrontation
Clause. 523 U. S., at 188; see also Richardson, 481
U. S., at 211, n. 5. In Gray, the Court considered
Anthony Bell’s confession to Baltimore police, implicating
himself, Kevin Gray, and co-conspirator Jacquin Vanlandingham in a
murder. 523 U. S., at 188. The prosecution sought to introduce
the confession at trial, and the trial judge required that it be
redacted to use the word “deleted” or
“deletion” whenever Gray’s or
Vanlandingham’s names appeared. Ibid. At trial, the
prosecution had a police detective read the confession aloud to the
jury verbatim, substituting the words “deleted” or
“deletion” for Gray’s or Vanlandingham’s
names.[3] Ibid.
“Immediately after” the detective finished reading the
confession, “the prosecutor asked, ‘after he gave you
that information, you subsequently were able to arrest Mr. Kevin
Gray; is that correct?’ The officer responded,
‘That’s correct.’ ” Id., at
188–189. In instructing the jury at the close of trial, the
judge specified that Bell’s confession was evidence only
against Bell, admonishing the jury not to use the confession as
evidence against Gray. Id., at 189. The jury convicted Bell
and Gray.

															This Court held that the confession was
inadmissible under Bruton. It first noted that,
“unlike Richardson’s redacted confession,
[Bell’s] confession refer[red] directly to the
‘existence’ of the nonconfessing defendant.” 523
U. S., at 192. The Court then concluded that, when a redacted
confession “simply replace[s] a name with an obvious blank
space or a word such as ‘deleted’ or a symbol or other
similarly obvious indications of alteration,” the evidence
“so closely resemble[s] Bruton’s unredacted
statements that . . . the law must require the same
result.” Ibid. The Court reasoned that such
“obvious blank[s]” would cause the jurors to speculate
as to whom the omitted individual may be, “lift[ing their]
eyes to [the nonconfessing defendant], sitting at counsel table, to
find what will seem the obvious answer,” as the judge’s
“instruction will provide an obvious reason for the
blank.” Id., at 193. It also reasoned that
“statements redacted to leave a blank or some other similarly
obvious alteration” were “directly accusatory,”
“point[ing] directly to the defendant . . . in a
manner similar to Evans’ use of Bruton’s name or to a
testifying codefendant’s accusatory finger.”
Id., at 194.

															While the Court “concede[d] that
Richardson placed outside the scope of Bruton’s
rule those statements that incriminate inferentially,” it
explained that “inference pure and simple cannot make the
critical difference, for if it did, then Richardson would
also place outside Bruton’s scope confessions that use
shortened first names, nicknames, [and] descriptions as unique as
the ‘red-haired, bearded, one-eyed
man-with-a-limp.’ ” Id., at 195. The Court
elaborated:

															“That being so, Richardson
must depend in significant part upon the kind of, not the
simple fact of, inference. Richardson’s
inferences involved statements that did not refer directly to the
defendant himself and which became incriminating ‘only when
linked with evidence introduced later at trial.’ 481
U. S., at 208. The inferences at issue here involve statements
that, despite redaction, obviously refer directly to someone, often
obviously the defendant, and which involve inferences that a jury
ordinarily could make immediately, even were the confession the
very first item introduced at trial.” Id., at 196.

															Finally, the Court stressed that its holding,
which addressed only obviously redacted confessions, was
sufficiently narrow to avoid “unnecessarily lead[ing]
prosecutors to abandon the [relevant] confession or joint
trial.” Id., at 197.

															B

															Viewed together, the Court’s precedents
distinguish between confessions that directly implicate a defendant
and those that do so indirectly. Richardson explicitly
declined to extend Bruton’s “narrow
exception” to the presumption that jurors follow their
instructions beyond those confessions that occupy the former
category. 481 U. S., at 207. Gray qualified but
confirmed this legal standard, reiterating that the Bruton
rule applies only to “directly accusatory”
incriminating statements, as distinct from those that do “not
refer directly to the defendant” and “bec[o]me
incriminating only when linked with evidence introduced later at
trial.” 523 U. S., at 194, 196 (internal quotation marks
omitted). Accordingly, neither Bruton, Richardson,
nor Gray provides license to flyspeck trial transcripts in
search of evidence that could give rise to a collateral inference
that the defendant had been named in an altered confession.

															Here, the District Court’s admission of
Stillwell’s confession, accompanied by a limiting
instruction, did not run afoul of this Court’s precedents.
Stillwell’s confession was redacted to avoid naming Samia,
satisfying Bruton’s rule. And, it was not obviously
redacted in a manner resembling the confession in Gray; the
neutral references to some “other person” were not akin
to an obvious blank or the word “deleted.” In fact, the
redacted confession is strikingly similar to a hypothetical
modified confession we looked upon favorably in Gray, where
we posited that, instead of saying “ ‘[m]e,
deleted, deleted, and a few other guys,’ ” the
witness could easily have said “ ‘[m]e and a few
other guys.’ ” 523 U. S., at 196.
Accordingly, it “fall[s] outside the narrow exception
[Bruton] created.” Richardson, 481 U. S.,
at 208.

															Moreover, it would not have been feasible to
further modify Stillwell’s confession to make it appear, as
in Richardson, that he had acted alone. Stillwell was
charged with conspiracy and did not confess to shooting Lee.
Consequently, the evidence of coordination between Stillwell and
Lee’s killer (whether Samia or not) was necessary to prove an
essential element of the Government’s case. In addition,
editing the statement to exclude mention of the “other
person” may have made it seem as though Stillwell and Lee
were alone in the van at the time Lee was shot. Such a scenario may
have led the jurors—who sat in judgment of both Samia and
Stillwell—to conclude that Stillwell was the shooter, an
obviously prejudicial result.

															IV

															As described above, expanding the
Bruton rule in the way Samia proposes would be inconsistent
with longstanding practice and our precedents. It would also work
an unnecessary and imprudent change in law, resulting in precisely
the practical effects that the Court rejected in Richardson.
The Confrontation Clause rule that Samia proposes would require
federal and state trial courts to conduct extensive pretrial
hearings to determine whether the jury could infer from the
Government’s case in its entirety that the defendant had been
named in an altered confession. See Brief for Petitioner 16. That
approach would be burdensome and “far from foolproof,”
481 U. S., at 209, and we decline to endorse it.

															Indeed, it would be impractical to fully police
juror inferences in the way Samia seems to suggest; in a criminal
trial, all evidence that supports the prosecution’s theory of
the case is, to some extent, mutually reinforcing. Thus, the likely
practical consequence of Samia’s position would be to mandate
severance whenever the prosecution wishes to introduce the
confession of a nontestifying codefendant in a joint trial. But, as
this Court has observed, that is “too high” a price to
pay. Id., at 210. Joint trials have long “play[ed] a
vital role in the criminal justice system,” preserving
government resources and allowing victims to avoid repeatedly
reliving trauma. Id., at 209; see also United States
v. Marchant, 12 Wheat. 480, 482–483, 485 (1827)
(Story, J.) (recognizing the crucial role of joint trials).
Further, joint trials encourage consistent verdicts and enable more
accurate assessments of relative culpability. See Bruton,
391 U. S., at 143 (White, J., dissenting) (“[S]eparate
trials are apt to have varying consequences for legally
indistinguishable defendants”). Also, separate trials
“randomly favo[r] the last-tried defendants who have the
advantage of knowing the prosecution’s case
beforehand.” Richardson, 481 U. S., at 210.

															Samia offers, as an alternative, that the
Government may choose to forgo use of the confession entirely,
thereby avoiding the need for severance. But, this ignores the fact
that confessions are “ ‘essential to
society’s compelling interest in finding, convicting, and
punishing those who violate the law.’ ”
Ibid. And, as described above, Samia’s proposal is not
compelled by the Confrontation Clause.

															*  *  *

															The Confrontation Clause ensures that
defendants have the opportunity to confront witnesses against them,
but it does not provide a freestanding guarantee against the risk
of potential prejudice that may arise inferentially in a joint
trial. Here, the Clause was not violated by the admission of a
nontestifying codefendant’s confession that did not directly
inculpate the defendant and was subject to a proper limiting
instruction.

															We therefore affirm the judgment of the Court of
Appeals.

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 This Court has never
opined as to whether rewriting a confession may serve as a proper
method of redaction. See Richardson v. Marsh,
481 U.S.
200, 203, n. 1 (1987). Because the parties do not argue
that the District Court’s imposition of further redactions
was inappropriate in this case, we do not consider the issue here
either.
2
 The Court ended on a
cautionary note, explaining that the prosecutor had linked Marsh
with Williams’ confession in his closing argument. Thus, the
Court observed, “the prosecutor [had] sought to undo the
effect of the limiting instruction by urging the jury to use
Williams’ confession in evaluating [Marsh’s]
case.” 481 U. S., at 211. If a claim of error on this
count were preserved, the Court suggested that relief could be
appropriate. Ibid.
3
 The prosecution also
introduced a written copy of the confession with Gray’s and
Vanlandigham’s names omitted, “leaving in their place
blank white spaces separated by commas.” Gray, 523
U. S., at 189.


