::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-196
::decision_name::  Samia v. United States
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–196

															_________________

															ADAM SAMIA, aka SAL, aka ADAM SAMIC,
PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 23, 2023]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Sotomayor and
Justice Jackson join, dissenting.

															Imagine a criminal case involving two
defendants—John and Mary. John and Mary are arrested for
robbing Bill. Before trial, John confesses to the robbery in an
interview with police. But John does more than admit his own
involvement; he also points a finger at Mary. John says to the
police: “Mary and I went out Saturday night and robbed
Bill.” Mary, on the other hand, never confesses to the
robbery. She maintains that she wasn’t involved—in
fact, that she never left her home on the night in question. The
government tries John and Mary together. At trial, it introduces a
copy of John’s confession into evidence, and has it read to
the jury by the interviewing officer. But John elects not to take
the stand, leaving Mary’s attorney without an opportunity to
cross-examine him about his confession.

															This Court’s precedent bars the government
from using John’s confession in that way. The Confrontation
Clause of the Sixth Amendment guarantees a criminal defendant the
right “to be confronted with the witnesses against”
her, which includes the right to cross-examine those witnesses. See
Pointer v. Texas, 380 U.S.
400, 404 (1965). So when two defendants are tried jointly, the
pretrial confession of one identifying the other as involved in the
crime cannot be admitted unless the confessing defendant takes the
stand. That is true, we held in Bruton v. United
States, 391 U.S.
123 (1968), regardless of whether a judge instructs the jury to
consider the evidence only against the confessor (John), and not
against his co-defendant (Mary). Even with that kind of
instruction, a “substantial risk” exists that the jury
will impermissibly rely on John’s confession when determining
Mary’s guilt. Id., at 126.

															Suppose, though, that the government redacts the
confession to eliminate Mary’s name. Mary still sits in the
courtroom alongside John. But the version of the confession
admitted into evidence now includes a blank space where
Mary’s name belongs. And when the interviewing officer reads
the confession to the jury, he says “deleted” in place
of Mary’s name. So instead of “Mary and I went out
Saturday night and robbed Bill,” what the jury hears is
“deleted and I went out Saturday night and robbed
Bill.”

															That confession, too, is inadmissible under our
precedent. Though the confession no longer identifies Mary by name,
the implication is obvious: A juror “need only lift his eyes
to [Mary], sitting at counsel table,” to realize to whom
“deleted” refers. Gray v. Maryland,
523 U.S.
185, 193 (1998). The redacted confession thus presents the same
risk as the unredacted one—that the jury will consider it as
evidence against Mary even if instructed not to. Because the
confessions “so closely resemble” each other, we have
held, “the law must require the same result.”
Id., at 192.

															Now consider one last option. The government
again modifies the confession to avoid the express reference. But
this time, instead of swapping Mary’s name out for
“deleted,” the government replaces it with the words
“a woman.” The line read to the jury thus becomes:
“A woman and I went out Saturday night and robbed
Bill.” In the face of precedent that would bar the government
from using either of the first two versions of John’s
confession, a judge must decide what to do about this one. Would
its admission, too, violate Mary’s right of
confrontation?

															The answer should be obvious. A jury is still
going to recognize that John is talking about Mary—for who
else could the mystery “woman” be? This last version of
the confession thus presents the same risk as the first two: that
jurors will rely on John’s confession when assessing
Mary’s guilt. Yet in today’s decision, the Court draws
a line of constitutional significance between the first two
examples and the third. Confessions that use a defendant’s
name or a symbol of omission—clear Confrontation Clause
violation. Confessions that replace a defendant’s name with
another placeholder—no Sixth Amendment problem, no matter how
obvious the reference to the defendant. In so elevating form over
substance, the majority permits an end-run around our precedent and
undermines a vital constitutional protection for the accused.

															I

															Start with Bruton, the foundation of
this Court’s precedent on the introduction of confessions at
joint trials. The government, we held in that case, cannot
introduce a confession by a non-testifying defendant that names a
co-defendant as an accomplice. Admitting the confession against the
co-defendant would violate her Sixth Amendment right to
cross-examine witnesses. See 391 U. S., at 126. And an
instruction to the jury to disregard the confession when assessing
the co-defendant’s guilt cannot remove the constitutional
problem. That is because of the effect that such a
“powerfully incriminating extrajudicial
statement[ ]” is likely to have on a jury. Id.,
at 135–136. In this context, “the risk that the jury
will not, or cannot, follow [the instruction] is so great, and the
consequences of failure so vital to the defendant, that the
practical and human limitations of the jury system cannot be
ignored.” Id., at 135.

															The Bruton rule applies even when an
accusatory confession does not expressly name the co-defendant.
Bruton, we have held, bars the use of confessions
“that replace[ ] a name with an obvious blank space or
symbol or word such as ‘deleted.’ ”
Gray, 523 U. S., at 189. (So the Bruton rule
extends beyond the first John-and-Mary hypothetical to the second.)
And similarly, Bruton bars the admission of
“confessions that use shortened first names, nicknames, [and]
descriptions as unique as the ‘red-haired, bearded, one-eyed
man-with-a-limp.’ ” Gray, 523 U. S.,
at 195; accord, ante, at 14. The Court assumed, for example,
that at a joint trial of four defendants—three Black, one
white—Bruton required the exclusion of two of the
Black defendants’ confessions because they referred to the
“white guy” as a participant in the crime.
Harrington v. California, 395
U.S. 250, 252–253 (1969); see Gray, 523
U. S., at 195. Though confessions of that kind do not
expressly name a non-confessing defendant, they still point
directly at him. See id., at 194. They thus raise the same
constitutional concern—that jurors will consider the
confession’s accusation in evaluating the non-confessing
defendant’s guilt.

															Until today, Bruton’s application
turned on the effect a confession is likely to have on the jury, as
a comparison of two of our decisions shows. In Richardson v.
Marsh, 481 U.S.
200, 211 (1987), we approved the admission of a confession
“redacted to eliminate not only [a co-defendant’s]
name, but any reference to his or her existence.” Despite
that complete redaction, the confession served to incriminate the
co-defendant later in the trial, when her own testimony placed her
in a car ride that the confession described. See id., at
206, 208. But we thought that a confession that incriminated only
“by connection” with subsequent evidence was neither so
“vivid” nor so “powerful[ ]” as a
confession that “incriminat[ed] on its face.”
Id., at 208–209. For that reason, we thought, the jury
was more “likely [to] obey the instruction” to
disregard the confession as to the co-defendant. Id., at
208. But we held in Gray that the calculus is different when
a confession “refers directly to the ‘existence’
of the nonconfessing defendant,” even though not by name. 523
U. S., at 192. Such a confession itself points a finger at a
co-defendant, so that the jury can “immediately” and
“vivid[ly]” grasp how it implicates her. Id., at
196. The impact is so similar to naming the defendant that
“the law must require the same result.” Id., at
192. In both situations, the confession’s “powerfully
incriminating” effect “creates a special, and vital,
need for cross-examination”—just as if “the
codefendant pointed directly to the defendant in the
courtroom.” Id., at 194.

															Consider against that backdrop the facts of this
case. Petitioner Adam Samia was tried jointly with two
co-defendants—Joseph Hunter and Carl David Stillwell—on
charges related to a murder committed in the Philippines. According
to the prosecution’s theory of the case, Paul LeRoux, the
head of a transnational criminal organization, ordered the killing;
and Hunter, one of LeRoux’s managers, hired Samia and
Stillwell as hitmen. Before trial, Stillwell confessed to federal
agents that both he and Samia were present at the murder, but told
them that Samia was the triggerman. On that version of events,
Samia shot the victim in a van that Stillwell was driving. App.
42–43, 45. At trial, one of the agents testified about
Stillwell’s confession, replacing Samia’s name with
placeholders like “somebody else” and “the other
person.” Id., at 75. So, for example, when the
prosecutor asked the agent what Stillwell had said about his
arrival in the Philippines, the agent answered: “He stated
that he had met somebody else over there.” Ibid. And
when asked whether Stillwell had recounted the crime, the agent
testified: “Yes. He described a time when the other person he
was with pulled the trigger on that woman in a van that he and Mr.
Stillwell was driving.” Id., at 76.

															From the jury’s perspective, the identity
of the triggerman would have been obvious. The jury knew from the
start of trial that there were just three defendants. It knew based
on the prosecutor’s opening statement that those defendants
were on trial for offenses related to a death in the Philippines.
And it knew the role that each defendant allegedly played in the
crime: Hunter had hired Stillwell and Samia as hitmen, and those
two men carried out the murder. In fact, the prosecutor began his
opening statement with the exact sequence of events Stillwell had
described in his interview: The prosecutor told jurors that Samia
“shot [the victim] twice in the face” while the victim
“was riding in the backseat of a van driven” by
Stillwell. Id., at 52. So when the federal agent took the
stand on day two of the trial, it didn’t make a lick of
difference that he didn’t identify the shooter by name, but
instead used placeholder terms. Any reasonable juror would have
realized immediately—and without reference to any other
evidence—that “the other person” who
“pulled the trigger” was Samia.

															That fact makes Stillwell’s confession
inadmissible under our Bruton precedent. The agent’s
testimony about the confession pointed a finger straight at Samia,
no less than if the agent had used Samia’s name or called him
“deleted.”

															II

															So how does the majority reach a contrary
result? The nomenclature it adopts isn’t the problem: In
describing Bruton’s scope, the majority distinguishes
“between confessions that directly implicate a defendant and
those that do so indirectly.” Ante, at 10,
14–15. That distinction roughly tracks the one this Court has
recognized between confessions that themselves incriminate a
co-defendant (directly implicate) and those that become
incriminating only when linked with later-introduced evidence
(indirectly implicate). See supra, at 4–5. But the
majority distorts that distinction beyond recognition when applying
it to the facts of this case. In one blink-and-you-miss-it
paragraph of analysis, the majority holds that Stillwell’s
confession does not “directly” implicate Samia for two
reasons. It “was redacted to avoid naming Samia.”
Ante, at 15. And the redaction was “not akin to an
obvious blank or the word ‘deleted.’ ”
Ibid.

															That analysis altogether fails to capture what
our Bruton cases care about. This Court has already made
clear that the first fact relied on—that Stillwell’s
confession did not use Samia’s name—is not dispositive.
See supra, at 3–4. A confession redacted with a blank
space, after all, also avoids naming the defendant; yet Gray
held that it falls within Bruton’s scope. So
today’s decision must rest on the second feature of the
confession: that the placeholder used (e.g., “the
other person”) was neither a blank space nor the word
“deleted.” But that distinction makes nonsense of the
Bruton rule. Bruton’s application has always
turned on a confession’s inculpatory impact. See,
e.g., Cruz v. New York, 481 U.S.
186, 193 (1987) (considering “the likelihood that [a
limiting] instruction will be disregarded” and “the
probability that such disregard will have a devastating
effect”). And as the John-and-Mary examples make clear, a
confession that swaps in a phrase like “the other
person” for a defendant’s name may incriminate just as
powerfully as one that swaps in a blank space. See supra, at
1–3. So the majority warps our Bruton precedent by
categorically putting the two on opposite sides of the
constitutional line. As the Court remarked in another case about
Bruton, “[t]he law cannot command respect” if we
apply such “inexplicable”—and indeed
unprincipled—line-drawing to a “constitutional
imperative.” Cruz, 481 U. S., at 193.

															Contrary to the majority’s claim,
Gray repudiates rather than supports the distinction adopted
today. In holding that Bruton’s protections extend
beyond confessions with names to confessions with blanks,
Gray explained that what should matter is not a
confession’s form but its effects. A jury, Gray noted,
“will often react similarly” to the two kinds of
confessions; the blank space (rather than name) is “not
likely [to] fool anyone.” 523 U. S., at 193. Ignoring
Gray’s forest for one tree, the majority points to a
passage in which the Court described how a confession in the case
could have been further redacted: Instead of saying “[m]e,
deleted, deleted, and a few other guys,” the witness could
have said “[m]e and a few other guys.” Id., at
196. But on Gray’s particular facts, the latter
version was unproblematic. The crime was a gang assault involving
six perpetrators, while only one other person was on trial with the
confessing defendant. The “[m]e and a few other guys”
phrase thus did not point a finger directly at the co-defendant, as
“the other person” phrase here did at Samia. The more
relevant reference discussed in Gray was to the “white
guy” in a trial with only one white defendant, as described
above. Id., at 195; see supra, at 4. Gray left
no doubt that the confession with that phrase should have been
excluded—and for the same reason as the confession with
“deleted.” When a modified confession has an
“accusatory” effect “similar” to one with
names, the Court reasoned, the law “require[s] the same
result.” Id., at 192, 194. Gray could not have
cared less whether the modification takes the form of a blank space
or of a different, but no less accusatory, placeholder.

															The practical concerns the majority cites in
support of its decision are equally flimsy. On the majority’s
view, a ruling for Samia would require courts to conduct
“extensive pretrial hearings” reviewing “the
Government’s case in its entirety.” Ante, at 16.
But that charge is a strawman—and one that Gray
already knocked down. See 523 U. S., at 197. The Bruton
rule—whether applying to confessions with names, with blanks,
or with other placeholders—demands only that a court consider
“in advance of trial” such matters as the content of
the confession, the number of defendants, and the
prosecution’s general theory of the case. Cruz, 481
U. S., at 193; see Gray, 523 U. S., at 197; cf.
Richardson, 481 U. S., at 209 (noting that a more
demanding inquiry would be needed if Bruton applied to
confessions incriminating only “by connection” with
later-introduced evidence). Courts have long considered those basic
factors when applying Bruton.[1] And the Government has proved unable to cite a single
case—including in Circuits applying Bruton to
confessions like Stillwell’s—in which doing so created
“administrability” issues, much less “fewer joint
trials.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 93–96.[2] In any event, greater “convenience in the
administration of the law,” as Bruton noted, cannot
come at the expense “of fundamental principles of
constitutional liberty.” 391 U. S., at 135. “That
price,” we recognized then, “is too high.”
Ibid.

															With nothing else to support it, the majority
reaches for two props inconsistent with Bruton itself. One
is the “presumption that jurors follow limiting
instructions.” Ante, at 8–9. The majority
correctly describes that presumption; it just forgets that the
presumption does not apply when the evidence at issue is an
accusatory co-defendant confession. Bruton could not have
been clearer on the point: “[W]e cannot accept limiting
instructions as an adequate substitute for [a defendant’s]
constitutional right of cross-examination.” 391 U. S.,
at 137; see Gray, 523 U. S., at 192 (stating that
co-defendant confessions are “so prejudicial that limiting
instructions cannot work”); Richardson, 481
U. S., at 208 (noting “the overwhelming probability of
[jurors’] inability” to follow instructions to
disregard co-defendant confessions); see supra, at 3. And
the majority does no better in invoking “historical
evidentiary practice.” See ante, at 6–8. One
point here is Justice Barrett’s: There just isn’t much
history helping the majority. See ante, at 1–3
(opinion concurring in part and concurring in judgment). But assume
for a moment to the contrary: Suppose with the majority that at
some relevant time, courts conducting joint trials admitted
unredacted co-defendant confessions subject only to limiting
instructions. Ante, at 6–8. If that history
controlled, Bruton itself would have been wrongly decided.
The majority’s real views thus come into focus. The point of
its opinion is not to distinguish the confession here from the one
in Bruton. The point is to say why Bruton should
go.

															*  *  *

															And so one might wonder after reading
today’s decision whether Bruton is the next precedent
on this Court’s chopping block. The one reason it may not be
is that there is now no need for formal overruling: Under this
decision, prosecutors can always circumvent Bruton’s
protections. Consider once more John’s confession implicating
Mary in a robbery—a confession, I’ll now add, bearing a
striking resemblance to the one in Bruton. See 391
U. S., at 124 (“A postal inspector testified that Evans
orally confessed to him that Evans and [Bruton] committed the armed
robbery”). The Bruton rule will still bar the
prosecution from using the original version of John’s
confession, expressly naming Mary. So too the rule will prevent the
prosecution from swapping out Mary’s name for a blank space
or the word “deleted.” But no worries—the
government now has a functionally equivalent placeholder at its
(Court-sanctioned) disposal. It can simply replace Mary’s
name with “a woman,” and the Bruton issue will
go away. But contrary to today’s decision, the serious Sixth
Amendment problem remains. Now, defendants in joint trials will not
have the chance to confront some of the most damaging witnesses
against them. And a constitutional right once guaranteeing that
opportunity will no longer. It will become, in joint trials, a
shell of its former self. I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 See, e.g.,
United States v. Straker, 800 F.3d 570, 595–601
(CADC 2015); United States v. Hardwick, 544 F.3d 565,
573 (CA3 2008); United States v. Vega Molina,

407 F.3d 511, 520–521 (CA1 2005); United States v.
Williams, 
429 F.3d 767, 773–774 (CA8 2005); United States v.
Hernandez, 
330 F.3d 964, 973–974 (CA7 2003).
2
 Seriously, the
Government’s only proffered complaint when asked to expound
on administrability issues was with one appellate decision that
took “six double-column F. 3d pages” to review the
trial court’s Bruton ruling. Tr. of Oral Arg.
96.


