::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-10
::decision_name::  Dubin v. United States
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–10

															_________________

															David Fox Dubin, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 8, 2023]

															

															Justice Gorsuch, concurring in the
judgment.

															Whoever among you is not an “aggravated
identity thief,” let him cast the first stone. The United
States came to this Court with a view of 18 U. S. C.
§1028A(a)(1) that would affix that unfortunate label on almost
every adult American. Every bill splitter who has overcharged a
friend using a mobile-payment service like Venmo. Every contractor
who has rounded up his billed time by even a few minutes. Every
college hopeful who has overstated his involvement in the high
school glee club. All of those individuals, the United States says,
engage in conduct that can invite a mandatory 2-year stint in
federal prison. The Court today rightly rejects that unserious
position. But in so holding, I worry the Court has stumbled upon a
more fundamental problem with §1028A(a)(1). That provision is
not much better than a Rorschach test. Depending on how you squint
your eyes, you can stretch (or shrink) its meaning to convict (or
exonerate) just about anyone. Doubtless, creative prosecutors and
receptive judges can do the same. Truly, the statute fails to
provide even rudimentary notice of what it does and does not
criminalize. We have a term for laws like that. We call them vague.
And “[i]n our constitutional order, a vague law is no law at
all.” United States v. Davis, 588 U. S.
___, ___ (2019) (slip op., at 1).

															The “[a]ggravated identity theft”
statute stipulates that “[w]hoever, during and in relation to
any felony violation” listed in a later subsection,
“knowingly transfers, possesses, or uses, without lawful
authority, a means of identification of another person shall, in
addition to the punishment provided for such felony, be sentenced
to a term of imprisonment of 2 years.” §1028A(a)(1).
Today, the Court sets out to determine what conduct that law
reaches. It is, as the Court acknowledges, no easy task. Both the
term “us[e]” and the phrase “in relation
to” can support a multitude of possible meanings.
Ante, at 5–7. They of course “ ‘imply
action and implementation.’ ” Ante, at 6
(quoting Bailey v. United States, 516 U.S.
137, 145 (1995)). Beyond that “general concept,”
however, we must fend for ourselves based only on limited
contextual clues. Ante, at 5–7.

															The United States offers up a rapacious
interpretation that would require only “the use of th[e]
means of identification [to] ‘facilitat[e] or
furthe[r]’ the predicate offense in some way.”
Brief for United States 10 (emphasis added). Admittedly, this
reading “fall[s] within the range” of plausible
meanings the statute could support. Ante, at 7. But so too
do other readings—ones that require a more demanding
“nexus” between the “means of
identification” and the underlying misconduct. Ante,
at 7–8. For many of the reasons the Court gives (and more
besides), I agree that we must adhere to those more restrained
offerings. The United States’ maximalist approach has
simplicity on its side, yes; an everybody-is-guilty standard is no
challenge to administer. But the Constitution prohibits the
Judiciary from resolving reasonable doubts about a criminal
statute’s meaning by rounding up to the most punitive
interpretation its text and context can tolerate. See Wooden
v. United States, 595 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2022)
(Gorsuch, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 6–9).
That insight alone means Mr. Dubin’s §1028A(a)(1)
conviction cannot stand.

															Unfortunately, our opinion cannot end there.
Having told lower courts how not to read the statute, we owe
them some guidance as to how they should read it. That is
where the real challenge begins. Drawing on contextual clues and
rules of statutory interpretation, the Court concludes that a
violation of §1028A(a)(1) occurs whenever the “use of
the means of identification is at the crux of the
underlying criminality.” Ante, at 10 (emphasis added).
“In other words, the means of identification
specifically” must be in some way “a key mover
in the criminality.” Ibid. (emphasis added). Put still
another way, the “means of identification” must play
the (or maybe a) “central role” in the
commission of the offense. Ibid. (emphasis added).

															Setting aside some definite-article
inconsistency, those formulations all sound sensible enough. On
closer review, however, they present intractable interpretive
challenges of their own. When, exactly, is a “means of
identification” “at the crux,” “a key
mover,” or a “central role” player in an offense?
No doubt, the answer “turns on causation, or at least
causation often helps to answer the question.” United
States v. Michael, 882 F.3d 624, 628 (CA6 2018). The
Court agrees but stresses that “a causal relationship”
of any kind will not suffice. Ante, at 20. At the same time,
however, it studiously avoids indicating whether the appropriate
standard is proximate cause or something else entirely novel.
Ibid. All of which gives rise to further questions. In
virtually every fraud, a “means of identification”
plays some critical role in the fraud’s success—good
luck committing a mail or wire fraud, for instance, without relying
heavily on the name of the victim and likely the names of other
third parties. Just how much “causation” must a
prosecutor establish to sustain a §1028A(a)(1) conviction? For
that matter, how does one even determine the extent to which a
“means of identification” “caused” an
offense, as compared to the many other necessary inputs?

															The Court supplies no firm answer. Instead, it
leans on various illustrations that only highlight the difficulties
inherent in this exercise. Take, for instance, the Court’s
assurance that a “waiter who serves flank steak but charges
for filet mignon using an electronic payment method” has not
committed aggravated identity theft. Ante, at 1, 11. Why
not, exactly? In one sense, the “means of
identification” (the credit card) lies “at the
crux” of the fraud. The restaurant uses it to charge the
customer for a product it never supplied. Maybe that feels less
distasteful than a scenario in which an overseas hacker steals an
individual’s credit card information and deploys it to order
luxury goods on Amazon. But the Constitution’s promise of due
process means that criminal statutes must provide rules
“knowable in advance,” not intuitions discoverable only
after a prosecutor has issued an indictment and a judge offers an
opinion. Percoco v. United States, 598 U. S.
___, ___ (2023) (Gorsuch, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at
6).

															Not yet convinced? Consider some tweaks to the
Court’s hypothetical. Suppose that, instead of
misrepresenting the cut of its steaks, a restaurant charged a
customer for an appetizer he ordered that never arrived. What about
an appetizer he never ordered? An additional entrée? Three?
Three plus a $5,000 bottle of Moët? How about a Boeing 737?
Now suppose the restaurant ran the customer’s credit card for
the same steak twice. What if it waited an hour to do so? A day? A
year? What if the waiter gave the credit card information to a
different employee at the same restaurant to run the charge? A
different employee at a different restaurant? What if the
restaurant sold the customer’s credit card information on the
dark web, and another restaurant ran the card for filet
mignon? On the Court’s telling, the “crux” of the
fraud in some of these examples lies merely in “how
and when services were provided,” while in others the
“crux” involves “who received the
services.” Ante, at 20. But how to tell which is
which?

															The Court’s “crux” test
seemingly offers no sure way through this “blizzard of
. . . hypotheticals.” Ibid., n. 10. Nor
is that because I have cherry-picked “hard cases.”
Ibid. Scenarios like these—and variations of
them—illustrate the sorts of problems that invariably arise
in even simple §1028A(a)(1) cases involving bogus restaurant
bills. Other contexts can present still greater complications and
still deeper uncertainties. The problem we face, then, is not that
§1028A(a)(1) presents some hard cases at its edges; the
problem is this statute has no easy cases. Really, you could spend
a whole day cooking up scenarios—ranging from the mundane to
the fanciful—that collapse even your most basic intuitions
about what §1028A(a)(1) does and does not criminalize. Try
making up some of your own and running them by a friend or family
member. You may be surprised at how sharply instincts diverge.

															For the less adventurous, consider just the
facts of the case now before us. On one framing, it seems
outrageous to convict Mr. Dubin of aggravated identity theft. After
all, the patient did (at one point) receive psychological testing.
So you might say, as the Court does, that Mr. Dubin lied only about
the qualifications of the individual who provided those services
and the date on which they occurred. See ante, at 2, 20. But
on another framing, the patient’s identity was “a key
mover,” perhaps even “at the crux,” of the fraud.
Mr. Dubin could not have successfully billed the insurance provider
without accurately offering up some specific patient’s name
and information. Nor, as the United States notes, could Mr. Dubin
have simply drawn a random name from a hat. Rather, his fraud
depended on purloining the specific identity of a “Texas
Medicaid enrollee who had at least three hours of
psychological-testing reimbursement left in his or her
account.” Brief for United States 13. Along the way, Mr.
Dubin’ compensable psychological services. From the
patient’s perspective, Mr. Dubin’s use of his
“means of identification” could hardly feel
“ancillary.” Ante, at 1–2.

															As an abstract exercise, debating fact patterns
like these may seem good fun. But there is nothing entertaining
about a 2-year mandatory federal prison sentence. Criminal statutes
are not games to be played in the car on a cross-country road trip.
To satisfy the constitutional minimum of due process, they must at
least provide “ordinary people” with “fair notice
of the conduct [they] punis[h].” Johnson v. United
States, 576 U.S. 591, 595 (2015). And, respectfully, I do not
see how §1028A(a)(1) can clear that threshold. Under the
Court’s “crux” test, no boundary separates
conduct that gives rise to liability from conduct that does not.
And it appears I share this concern with the very lower court
judges who will have to apply this standard prospectively. As even
many of the Fifth Circuit dissenters below warned, the sort
of “facilitation standard” the Court today adopts,
“with its incidental/integral dividing line,” is
unworkable because it “lacks clear lines and a limiting
principle.” 27 F. 4th 1021, 1042 (2022) (en banc) (Costa, J.,
dissenting). In the end, it is hard not to worry that the
Court’s “crux” test will simply become a fig leaf
for judges’ and jurors’ own subjective moral judgments
about whether (as the Court itself puts it) the defendant’s
crime is “one that warrants a 2-year mandatory
minimum.” Ante, at 17.

															I do not question that the Court today has done
the best it might to make sense of this statute. It’s just
that it faces an impossible task. In the past when this Court has
grappled with similar statutory language, it has done so in
contexts where the relevant terms could carry only a few possible
(and comparatively fixed) meanings. For example, when it comes to
the “us[e]” of a firearm “in relation” to a
crime of violence, 18 U. S. C. §924(c)(1)(A), the
presence of a gun could be a but-for cause of (or a necessary
ingredient of ) the offense—used, for example, as
compensation in an exchange for illicit drugs. Smith v.
United States, 508 U.S.
223, 237–238 (1993). Or the gun could be
“ ‘used as a weapon’ ” by being
discharged or brandished. Id., at 243 (Scalia, J.,
dissenting). Because both those interpretations are relatively
bounded and understandable, this Court could use principles of
statutory interpretation to choose between them. The same holds
true for many of the other statutes the Court (mistakenly) frets I
would call into doubt. See ante, at 20, n. 10.

															The same cannot be said for §1028A(a)(1),
though. There are an uncountable number of ways in which an
individual could “us[e]” the “means of
identification” of another to commit fraud. That list covers
everything from including a victim’s name in the subject line
of a fraudulent email; to misrepresenting information on a loan
form involving a co-signer; to putting on a wig and walking into a
bank with a fake ID. And no obvious neutral rule exists to separate
those “uses” that violate §1028A(a)(1) from others
that do not. In this way, §1028A(a)(1) is not just an
“ambiguous” statute—“one that does
define prohibited conduct with some precision, but [that] is
subject to two or more different interpretations.” J. Decker,
Addressing Vagueness, Ambiguity, and Other Uncertainty in American
Criminal Laws, 80 Denver U. L. Rev. 241, 261 (2002) (emphasis
added). Instead, it is a vague statute—one that “does
not satisfactorily define the proscribed conduct” at all.
Id., at 260–261.

															I do not write this opinion as wishcasting.
Perhaps, by applying the Court’s “crux” test,
lower courts will achieve a consistency that has, to date, eluded
them. Or perhaps they will, prompted by today’s decision,
locate a previously unseen path through this statutory quagmire.
But I would not hold my breath. Section 1028A(a)(1) simply does too
little to specify which individuals deserve the inglorious title of
“aggravated identity thief.” That is a problem Congress
alone can fix. Until it does, I fear the issues that have long
plagued lower courts will persist. And I will not be surprised if
someday, maybe someday soon, they find their way back here.

													
