::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-196
::decision_name::  Samia v. United States
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Jackson
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–196

															_________________

															ADAM SAMIA, aka SAL, aka ADAM SAMIC,
PETITIONER v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 23, 2023]

															

															Justice Jackson, dissenting.

															I join Justice Kagan’s dissent in full,
and agree, in particular, with her insight that the
majority’s bottom-line view is that “Bruton
should go.” Ante, at 10. I am writing to emphasize
that most of the force of the Court’s argument (to the extent
that it is at all forceful) comes from the majority having
improperly reframed the constitutional standard that applies to the
admission of incriminating testimonial statements of a codefendant
during a joint criminal trial.

															Under the majority’s approach, the default
rule is that a nontestifying codefendant’s incriminating
confession is admissible, so long as it is accompanied by a
limiting instruction. Ante, at 6, 9, 17. Thus, for present
purposes, the majority repeatedly calls Bruton v. United
States, 391 U.S.
123 (1968), a “ ‘narrow
exception’ ” to this default rule. Ante, at
9, 12, 15. And the thrust of the majority’s holding is that
the so-called Bruton exception is—and must
be—narrow: Bruton is a pesky deviation that requires
the exclusion of otherwise admissible evidence (hence, the ease
with which the majority contemplates dispensing with that
precedent).

															That approach inverts the constitutional
principles that govern this case. Under our well-established Sixth
Amendment precedents, the Court’s analysis must, instead,
start from the premise that the introduction of
Stillwell’s inculpatory confession during the joint trial
threatened Samia’s Confrontation Clause rights. The
introduction of a “testimonial” statement from an
unavailable declarant violates the Confrontation Clause unless the
defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-examination.
Crawford v. Washington, 541 U.S.
36, 59, 68 (2004). And, here, there is no dispute that
Stillwell’s statement to law enforcement was testimonial,
that Stillwell was an unavailable declarant, and that Samia had no
opportunity to cross-examine Stillwell. Therefore, the default
presumption in this case should have been that Stillwell’s
confession was not admissible at his and Samia’s joint
trial, because the statement implicated Samia on its face, and
Samia could not cross-examine the declarant.[1]*

															When the Government attempted to nonetheless
introduce Stillwell’s inculpatory confession notwithstanding
Samia’s inability to cross-examine him, it sought an
exception from the Confrontation Clause’s exclusion
mandate. Before today, this Court had never held that a limiting
instruction, combined with a redaction that merely replaces the
defendant’s name, sufficiently “cures” the
constitutional problem. In Bruton, the Court rejected the
idea of an exception entirely—it entertained permitting such
an exception in light of a limiting instruction given at trial, but
the Court ultimately declined to adopt one. 391 U. S., at 137
(“[I]n the context of a joint trial we cannot accept limiting
instructions as an adequate substitute for petitioner’s
constitutional right of cross-examination”). Then, in
Gray v. Maryland, 523 U.S.
185 (1998), the Government tried again to get an exception to
the Confrontation Clause—this time adding an obvious
redaction of the defendant’s name in the confession on top of
the limiting instruction—but this Court once again rebuffed
such efforts. Id., at 188. Indeed, the only prior case in
which this Court has permitted an exception to the baseline
confrontation rule of exclusion was one in which the confession at
issue arguably was not even “against” the defendant in
the first place, as it did not incriminate the accused in any way
until the defendant herself introduced evidence that rendered the
confession inculpatory. Richardson v. Marsh,
481 U.S.
200, 206, 208, 211 (1987).

															Collectively, our precedents properly recognize
the necessary narrowness of any exception to the default
Bruton principle that the Government’s introduction of
an inculpatory confession during a joint trial poses a substantial
constitutional problem. Not anymore. With today’s ruling, the
majority fails to acknowledge what is the default rule and what is
the exception. And it thereby sets the stage for considerable
erosion of the Confrontation Clause right that Bruton
protects.

															Properly understood, the Bruton question
actually raises two distinct issues: one about whether there is a
Confrontation Clause problem in the first place, and a second about
potential cures (like redactions and limiting instructions) for
that constitutional dilemma. The majority skips over the first
question today; its analysis essentially assumes that there is no
Sixth Amendment problem in the first place, which then allows for
an unwarranted expansion of what should be a narrow exception to
the default principle of exclusion. In other words, the Court has
now turned our Bruton cases on their head in a manner that
risks undermining a core Sixth Amendment right.

Notes
1
*Contrary to the
Government’s suggestion (see Brief for United States 12, 32),
a codefendant’s confession implicates a defendant’s
Sixth Amendment rights even if it does “not directly accuse
[the defendant] of wrongdoing,” but “rather
. . . is inculpatory only when taken together with other
evidence,” Melendez-Diaz v. Massachusetts,
557 U.S.
305, 313 (2009). That conclusion follows from the text of the
Sixth Amendment, which guarantees the right of the accused to
“confron[t]” “witnesses against him”
(emphasis added), not just those witnesses who
“ ‘facially incriminat[e]’ ” him,
contra, ante, at 9–10.


