::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-179
::decision_name::  United States v. Hansen
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Jackson
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–179

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v. HELAMAN
HANSEN

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 23, 2023]

															

															Justice Jackson, with whom Justice Sotomayor
joins, dissenting.

															At bottom, this case is about how to interpret a
statute that prohibits “encourag[ing] or induc[ing]” a
noncitizen “to come to, enter, or reside in the United
States” unlawfully. 8 U. S. C.
§1324(a)(1)(A)(iv). The Court reads that broad language as a
narrow prohibition on the intentional solicitation or facilitation
of a specific act of unlawful immigration—and it thereby
avoids having to invalidate this statute under our well-established
First Amendment overbreadth doctrine. But the majority departs from
ordinary principles of statutory interpretation to reach that
result. Specifically, it rewrites the provision’s text to
include elements that Congress once adopted but later removed as
part of its incremental expansion of this particular criminal law
over the last century.

															It is neither our job nor our prerogative to
retrofit federal statutes in a manner patently inconsistent with
Congress’s choices. Moreover, by acquiescing to the
Government’s newly minted pitch to narrow this statute in
order to save it,[1] the
majority undermines the goal of the overbreadth doctrine, which
aims to keep overly broad statutes off the books in order to avoid
chilling constitutionally protected speech. See Dombrowski
v. Pfister, 380 U.S.
479, 486–487 (1965). Because the majority’s
interpretation of §1324(a)(1)(A)(iv) diverges from the text
and history of the provision, and simultaneously subverts the
speech-protective goals of the constitutional doctrine plainly
implicated here, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															Section 1324(a)(1)(A)(iv) makes it a federal
crime to “encourag[e] or induc[e]” a noncitizen
“to come to, enter, or reside in the United States, knowing
or in reckless disregard of the fact that such coming to, entry, or
residence is or will be in violation of law.” For ease of
reference, I will refer to this as the “encouragement
provision.”

															Respondent Hansen argues that the encouragement
provision is unconstitutional under our First Amendment overbreadth
doctrine, and the Ninth Circuit below agreed. Neither the
Government nor the majority disputes that conclusion if the statute
is read according to its plain terms. And, indeed, when read
literally, the encouragement provision prohibits so much protected
speech that it appears to qualify as overbroad under our
precedents.

															A

															A statute is overbroad—and thus facially
invalid—if “a substantial number of its applications
are unconstitutional, judged in relation to the statute’s
plainly legitimate sweep.” United States v.
Stevens, 559 U.S.
460, 473 (2010) (internal quotation marks omitted). The
overbreadth inquiry thus generally requires comparing the First
Amendment- protected expression that a statute impermissibly
punishes, on the one hand (let’s call that “category
one”), with the unprotected speech and conduct that the
statute validly prohibits, on the other (“category
two”).

															Starting with category one: With respect to the
sweep of the plain text of the encouragement provision, there is no
dispute that, “[i]n ordinary parlance, ‘induce’
means ‘[to] lead on; to influence; to prevail on; to move by
persuasion or influence,’ ” and
“ ‘encourage’ means to ‘inspire with
courage, spirit, or hope.’ ” Ante, at 9.
Thus, on its face, the encouragement provision’s use of the
terms “encourage” and “induce” seems to
encompass any and all speech that merely persuades, influences, or
inspires a noncitizen to come to, enter, or reside in this country
in violation of law.

															If speech of this nature is, in fact, sufficient
to trigger potential prosecution under this statute, the provision
would put all manner of protected speech in the Government’s
prosecutorial crosshairs. It would reach, for example, the
grandmother who says she misses her noncitizen grandchild, leading
the grandchild to move illegally to the United States. It would
also apply to the doctor who informs a noncitizen patient that a
necessary medical treatment is more readily available in the United
States, influencing the patient to stay beyond the expiration of
his visa to await treatment. The college counselor who advises an
undocumented student that she can obtain a private scholarship to
attend college in the United States, inspiring the student to
reside here, would also fall within the scope of the statute.

															The encouragement provision, on this broad
reading, would also punish abstract advocacy of illegal conduct,
even though such speech is plainly permissible under the First
Amendment. For instance, the plain text of the statute appears to
prohibit a person from saying to a noncitizen who has no
authorization to reside here, “I encourage you to live in the
United States.” But that speech is plainly protected. See
United States v. Williams, 553
U.S. 285, 298–300 (2008). In Williams, this Court
explained that “abstract advocacy” of child
pornography—including the phrase “I encourage you to
obtain child pornography”—qualifies as protected
speech, even though the “recommendation of a particular piece
of purported child pornography with the intent of initiating a
transfer” is properly proscribed by federal statute.
Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted); see also,
e.g., Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition,
535 U.S.
234, 253 (2002) (“The mere tendency of speech to
encourage unlawful acts is not a sufficient reason for banning
it”).

															B

															The Government does not dispute that the
encouragement provision is unconstitutional as overbroad if it is
read according to its plain text, thereby reaching these various
fact patterns. This point is worth repeating: Under the broad
interpretation of the statute, the Government does not even attempt
to argue that the unconstitutional applications in category one are
not “substantial,” Stevens, 559 U. S., at
473, in relation to the constitutional applications that fall in
category two.[2] Rather, the
Government argues that the statute can be saved from falling victim
to today’s overbreadth challenge by construing the broad
terms of the encouragement provision narrowly—and, in
particular, reading them as authorizing prosecution only for
solicitation or facilitation.

															Citing this Court’s general duty “to
seek harmony, not to manufacture conflict,” when
“legislation and the Constitution brush up against each
other,” ante, at 16–17, the majority obliges.
But this Court also has a duty to refrain from taking the
legislative reins and revising the text of a statute. It is well
established that “[w]e will not rewrite a law to
conform it to constitutional requirements.” Stevens,
559 U. S., at 481 (emphasis added; alterations and internal
quotation marks omitted). Accordingly, and in the overbreadth
context in particular, the Court “may impose a limiting
construction on a statute only if it is ‘readily
susceptible’ to such a construction.” Ibid.
(some internal quotation marks omitted).

															Application of our ordinary principles of
statutory interpretation here reveals that the encouragement
provision is not susceptible to the narrow solicitation or
facilitation construction that the majority adopts, as explained
below. Thus, this statute is overbroad and facially invalid under
the First Amendment.

															II

															The majority contends that the encouragement
provision uses “ ‘encourage’ ”
and “ ‘induce’ ” in a
“specialized, criminal-law sense,” under which those
words are essentially synonymous with solicitation and facilitation
and carry certain narrowing features of those crimes. Ante,
at 9. But that construction of the statute is untenable for the
reasons that follow.

															A

															The majority starts its interpretation of the
encouragement provision “with some background on solicitation
and facilitation,” ante, at 6, instead of addressing
any of the terms in the encouragement provision itself. This is the
first clue that the majority’s statutory analysis is unusual.
Ordinarily, we start with the text of the statute being
interpreted. Yet the words “solicitation” and
“facilitation” appear nowhere in the encouragement
provision. (As the majority notes, facilitation is “also
called aiding and abetting,” ibid.—another term
that is absent from the encouragement provision.)

															The majority goes on to explain that the terms
that do appear in the encouragement
provision—“encourage” and
“induce”—are also often used (with other words)
to define “solicitation” and
“facilitation.” Ante, at 6–8. For example,
the majority notes that one legal dictionary “defines
‘abet’ as ‘[t]o encourage or set another
on to commit a crime,’ ” and it cites other legal
dictionaries that also use “encourage” to define
“abet.” Ante, at 7. Similarly, the majority
observes that the federal “ban on soliciting a crime of
violence . . . penalizes those who ‘solici[t],
comman[d], induc[e], or otherwise endeavo[r] to
persuade’ another person ‘to engage in [the unlawful]
conduct.’ ” Ibid. Because the terms
“encourage” and “induce” are used to define
the crimes of solicitation and facilitation, the majority concludes
that the statutory terms “ ‘[e]ncourage’ and
‘induce’ have well-established legal meanings”
that “incorporat[e] common-law liability for solicitation or
facilitation.” Ante, at 9.

															This contention—that, because the broad
terms that Congress actually used are sometimes spotted in the
definition of other, narrower words, the statute’s broad
terms are limited by the meaning of those narrower words and those
words’ characteristics—is puzzling. The majority cites
no precedent for this novel approach to interpreting words in a
statute. And its logic falls apart in light of the English lexicon
and how dictionary definitions tend to work.

															Broad words are often used to define narrower
ones. So the fact that a word is used to help define another word
does not necessarily mean that the former is synonymous with the
latter or incorporates all of its connotations. For instance, the
word “furniture” might be used in the definition of a
“chair,” but not all pieces of furniture are chairs,
nor do all pieces of furniture have four legs or other common
chair-like characteristics. Similarly, “to move” is
used to define “to walk,” “to run,” and
“to fly.” But that does not make these four terms
interchangeable.

															So, too, here. The phrase “encourages or
induces” is not synonymous with “solicits” or
“facilitates” (or “aids and abets”). For
example, among the other characteristics of solicitation and
facilitation (discussed further in Part II–C, infra)
is the fact that they require “an intent to bring
about a particular unlawful act,” ante, at 6 (emphasis
added). But the encouragement provision hints at no such thing. It
simply prohibits “encourag[ing] or induc[ing]” a
noncitizen “to come to, enter, or reside in the United
States, knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that such
coming to, entry, or residence is or will be in violation of
law.” §1324(a)(1)(A)(iv). Nor does the ordinary meaning
of “encourages or induces” carry the intent requirement
that solicitation and facilitation do: By describing the
attractions of my hometown, for instance, I might end up inducing a
listener to move there, even if that was not my intent.

															It is also telling that the very next
subdivision of §1324(a)(1)(A) expressly prohibits
“aid[ing] or abet[ting] the commission of any of the
preceding acts.” §1324(a)(1)(A)(v)(II). That provision
indicates that Congress knows how to create an aiding-and-abetting
prohibition when it wants to—and that it did not do so in
§1324(a)(1)(A)(iv).[3]

															The majority’s mere observation that the
encouragement provision’s terms are used to define
solicitation and facilitation is thus insufficient to establish
that the terms mean the same thing or incorporate the same
features.

															B

															The majority next turns to “[s]tatutory
history” to support its transformation of the broad
encouragement provision that Congress wrote into a narrow
solicitation or aiding-and-abetting prohibition. Ante, at
11. I agree that the history of a statute can reveal
Congress’s intent to use terms in a narrower or specialized
manner. But, here again, the particulars matter. And the history of
this particular statute only underscores that it cannot be read as
the majority wishes. At every turn, Congress has sought to expand
the reach of this criminal law, including by deleting the terms and
mens rea requirement that the majority attempts to read back
into the statute.

															1

															The history of the encouragement provision is
a tale of expansion. Up first was an 1885 law focused specifically
on contract labor. Ch. 164, 23Stat. 332. It made “knowingly
assisting, encouraging or soliciting the migration or importation
of ” a noncitizen into the United States “to
perform labor or service of any kind under contract or
agreement” unlawful. §3, id., at 333. Congress
revised this prohibition in 1917, to add “induce.”
§5, 39Stat. 879. Thus, as of the early 20th century, it was a
misdemeanor “to induce, assist, encourage, or solicit
. . . the importation or migration of any contract
laborer,” or to attempt to do the same. Ibid.

															Significantly for present purposes, in 1952,
Congress deleted the statute’s references to
solicitation and assistance—leaving “encourages”
and “induces” to stand alone. 66Stat. 229. What is
more, Congress expanded the prohibition to all unlawful
entry, not merely contract labor. Ibid. And it also
ratcheted up the punishment. Ibid. So amended, the statute
made it a felony to “willfully or knowingly encourag[e] or
induc[e], or attemp[t] to encourage or induce, either directly or
indirectly, the entry into the United States” of any
noncitizen who had not been “duly admitted” or who was
not “lawfully entitled to enter or reside within the United
States.” Ibid.

															Congress enacted the current version of the
encouragement provision in 1986. It removed the mens rea
requirement relating to the encouragement or inducement
element—excising from the statute that a violator must
“willfully or knowingly” encourage or induce a
noncitizen to violate the immigration laws—while inserting a
mens rea requirement for knowledge or reckless disregard of
the noncitizen’s immigration status. See Immigration Reform
and Control Act of 1986, §112(a), 100Stat. 3381–3382.
Simultaneously, and for the first time, Congress made it a crime to
encourage or induce an unauthorized noncitizen not merely to
enter the United States, but also to encourage or induce
such a person to “reside” here unlawfully.
Ibid.

															Finally, in 1996, Congress crafted a separate
penalty enhancement for certain kinds of violations. It raised the
maximum punishment from 5 years to 10 years of imprisonment if the
offender violates the encouragement provision “for the
purpose of commercial advantage or private financial gain.”
§1324(a)(1)(B)(i); see Illegal Immigration Reform and
Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, §203(a), 110Stat.
3009–565.

															As these developments illustrate, Congress has
repeatedly revisited the scope of the encouragement provision. And,
in so doing, it has consistently expanded the reach and severity of
this criminal law from its modest 1885 origins. Most notably, the
particular amendments that Congress has made to the encouragement
provision demonstrate its intent to specifically reject the pillars
of the majority’s holding.

															To reiterate: The terms “solicit”
and “assist” appeared in the text of the statute
between 1885 and 1952, at which point Congress removed them.
Likewise, between 1952 and 1986, violating this statute required
that the speaker “willfully or knowingly” encourage or
induce a noncitizen to transgress the immigration laws. But in
1986, Congress deleted this primary mens rea
requirement.

															2

															The majority’s efforts to spin the
encouragement provision’s enlightening enactment history in
favor of the majority’s narrow interpretation are
unavailing.

															The majority first points out that the 1885
version of the encouragement provision criminalized
“knowingly assisting, encouraging or
soliciting” certain immigration. §3, 23Stat. 333
(emphasis added); see ante, at 11. Because the term
“encouraging” was placed alongside
“assisting” and “soliciting” in this
precursor provision, the majority maintains that the term
“encouraging” is narrowed by the canon of noscitur a
sociis, “which counsels that a word is given more precise
content by the neighboring words with which it is
associated.” Williams, 553 U. S., at 294; see
ante, at 11. In Williams, the Court (in an opinion by
Justice Scalia) reasoned that, “[w]hen taken in
isolation,” the broad term
“ ‘promotes’ ” is
“susceptible of multiple and wide- ranging meanings,”
but that, “in a list that includes ‘solicits,’
‘distributes,’ and ‘advertises,’ [it] is
most sensibly read to mean the act of recommending purported child
pornography to another person for his acquisition.” 553
U. S., at 294–295.

															But, as the majority here ultimately goes on to
acknowledge, ante, at 12, the statutory word
“encouraging” was not actually accompanied by the
narrower terms “soliciting” and “assisting”
throughout the course of this statute’s history. And for the
history to be meaningfully referenced, the state of the statute
must be considered over time, not just at particular points in
which words that seem to support a particular reading might have
appeared. The delta between the purportedly narrow version of the
statute that the majority points to, and what later happened to the
statutory text, is important—and there is no dispute that
Congress later removed the terms “soliciting” and
“assisting” from the encouragement provision, leaving
“encouraging” and “inducing” to stand
“in isolation,” 553 U. S., at 294. See
ante, at 13. Tracing the history over time clearly
establishes that Congress deleted the very narrowing terms that the
majority now reads back into the statute.[4]

															The majority brushes off Congress’s
revision by speculating that Congress was merely “engaged in
a cleanup project” and was just “streamlin[ing]”
the statutory language. Ibid. This contention, however, gets
our ordinary presumption in statutory interpretation cases
precisely backwards. We “usually presume differences in
language . . . convey differences in meaning,”
absent some indication from Congress to the contrary. BNSF
R. Co. v. Loos, 586 U. S. ___, ___ (2019)
(slip op., at 10) (internal quotation marks omitted). Thus, we have
found the presumption overcome where, for example, Congress has
expressly “billed” the changes as “effect[ing]
only ‘[t]echnical [a]mendments.’ ”
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 9).

															Here, the majority points to no signal from
Congress that it sought to change the encouragement
provision’s language without changing its meaning. It seems
that the only support the majority can muster for its
“cleanup project” theory is a 1947 Supreme Court case
that at several points refers to the statute as a prohibition on
“encourag[ing]” or “induc[ing]” certain
unlawful immigration. Ante, at 13 (citing United
States v. Lem Hoy, 330 U.S.
724 (1947)). From this, the majority infers that, when Congress
amended the encouragement provision five years later to remove the
words “solicit” and “assist,” it must have
been adopting Lem Hoy’s shorthand characterization of
the statute. But the majority fails to support this
connection—tenuous on its face—with any evidence that
Congress actually consulted our 1947 decision when it drafted the
1952 amendments, or anything else that might establish the primary
significance that the majority ascribes to our decision’s
phrasing.

															The majority similarly characterizes
Congress’s decision to remove the intent requirement from the
statute in 1986 as “a further effort to streamline” the
encouragement provision. Ante, at 16. In other words, the
Court today holds that Congress’s removal of “willfully
or knowingly” in the 1986 amendments did not change the
mens rea required to violate this statute. But the majority
offers no support at all for its view that Congress didn’t
really mean for the amendment to effect any substantive
change. Instead, it conjures up its own “simple
explanation”: There was “no need” for an explicit
mens rea because “encourage” and
“induce” carry the mens rea associated with
solicitation and facilitation. Ante, at 15; see also
ante, at 14 (reasoning that Congress’s use of
“encourages” and “induces” brought along
the “old soil” of “the traditional intent
associated with solicitation and facilitation” (internal
quotation marks omitted)). Of course, this argument merely assumes
that Congress intended for “encourage” and
“induce” as they appear in the encouragement provision
to mean “solicit” and “facilitate”; it is a
repackaging of the majority’s unwarranted conflation of those
terms. See Part II–A, supra.

															The majority also invokes the presumption that a
criminal law contains an intent requirement even where Congress
does not explicitly include one. Ante, at 15–16. But,
here, the statutory history undermines that presumption. Congress
most certainly focused on the mens rea question because it
not only decided to remove “willfully or knowingly”
from the statute, it did so while inserting a separate mens
rea requirement for the knowledge of the noncitizen’s
immigration status. The confluence of these choices implies that
Congress’s removal of the primary mens rea requirement
was deliberate. And, when this deliberate choice is considered
alongside the history of the provision’s significant
expansions, there is ample cause to think that Congress intended a
substantive change in meaning.

															C

															Other features of the encouragement provision
(beyond its plain text and historical development) also suggest
that Congress did not mean for the statute to be construed in
accordance with established characteristics of solicitation or
aiding and abetting. These features further highlight the poor fit
between this statute and the narrow
solicitation/aiding-and-abetting box into which the majority tries
to squeeze Congress’s broad language.

															Recall that, in 1986, Congress made it a crime
to encourage or induce a noncitizen not just to “come
to” or “enter” the United States, but also to
“reside” in this country. 100Stat. 3382; supra,
at 8–9.[5] As the
majority notes, while it is a crime for a noncitizen to
enter the United States illegally, it is generally not a
crime—just a civil violation—to remain in the
United States without lawful status, such as when a noncitizen
overstays a visitor or student visa. See Arizona v.
United States, 567 U.S.
387, 407 (2012); see ante, at 19. Thus, the
encouragement provision on its face appears to criminally
punish someone who merely encourages or induces a civil
violation.[6]

															That feature of the provision does not sit
easily with its categorization as a solicitation or facilitation
statute, because, ordinarily, a person may only be held criminally
liable for aiding and abetting or solicitation when the underlying
offense is itself a crime. Aiding-and-abetting liability is
“a centuries-old view of culpability: that a person may be
responsible for a crime he has not personally carried out if he
helps another to complete its commission.” Rosemond v.
United States, 572 U.S.
65, 70 (2014) (citing J. Hawley & M. McGregor, Criminal Law
81 (1899)); see also 18 U. S. C. §2(a) (the general
federal aiding-and-abetting statute, providing that someone who
“aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces or procures”
the commission of a federal crime “is punishable as a
principal”). As for solicitation, at common law, the
solicited offense had to be a felony or a serious misdemeanor;
otherwise, “the solicitor [was] guilty of no offense.”
1 J. Ohlin, Wharton’s Criminal Law §9:2 (16th ed. 2021)
(Wharton’s). Today, “in some jurisdictions, the offense
solicited may be a felony or a misdemeanor; but in others, it can
only be a felony”—either way, though, the underlying
offense must be criminal. Ibid. (footnotes omitted); see
also 18 U. S. C. §373 (the general federal
solicitation statute, which is limited to the solicitation of
violent felonies).

															Here, by contrast, the encouragement provision
on its face appears to permit a person to be punished as a felon
for merely encouraging a civil violation. Thus, the statute is not
an easy fit for the solicitation and facilitation role in which the
majority has cast it.

															This statute is fundamentally different from
aiding-and-abetting liability and solicitation in other ways as
well. As noted, aiding-and-abetting liability is a form of
vicarious liability—i.e., a way in which a person
becomes liable for the crimes of the principal. Likewise, for
solicitation, “the punishment . . . is usually
geared to . . . the punishment provided for the offense
solicited.” Wharton’s §9:11; see, e.g., 18
U. S. C. §373(a) (providing, for example, punishment
of “not more than one-half the maximum term of imprisonment
. . . of the crime solicited”). But, notably, a
person who violates the encouragement provision is not punished as
if he were a principal of the underlying offense, nor does the
prescribed punishment depend on the penalty for the underlying
offense. So, for example, even if the underlying immigration
offense is a civil violation, the person who encourages or induces
that infraction could be punished by up to 10 years’
imprisonment for violating the encouragement provision. Unlike
solicitation and facilitation, then, punishment for violation of
the encouragement provision is not tied in any way to the
punishment prescribed for the underlying offense.

															It is also telling that aiding-and-abetting
liability (but not solicitation) requires that the principal
actually commit the underlying offense. 2 W. LaFave,
Substantive Criminal Law §13.3(c) (3d ed. 2018) (“[T]he
guilt of the principal must be established at the trial of the
accomplice as a part of the proof on the charge against the
accomplice”). Yet, the encouragement provision on its face
does not require that a noncitizen actually enter or reside in the
United States.

															*  *  *

															For these reasons, none of the traditional
tools of statutory interpretation makes the encouragement provision
readily susceptible to the majority’s narrowing
construction.

															III

															The majority nevertheless revises the statute,
leaning on the canon of constitutional avoidance. Ante, at
16–17.[7] But that canon
“comes into play only when, after the application of ordinary
textual analysis, the statute is found to be susceptible of more
than one construction.” Jennings v. Rodriguez,
583 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 12) (internal
quotation marks omitted). It does not give the Court license
“to rewrite a statute as it pleases.” Id., at
___ (slip op., at 14). And, here, for the reasons explained above,
it is clear that the majority has mounted “a serious invasion
of the legislative domain.” Stevens, 559 U. S.,
at 481 (internal quotation marks omitted). The majority’s
rescue mission is especially problematic because it is taking place
in the context of a First Amendment challenge to a statute on
overbreadth grounds, as explained below.

															A

															Overbreadth challenges are an “exception
to the usual rules governing standing,” a variation the Court
has long permitted in recognition of the “danger of
tolerating, in the area of First Amendment freedoms, the existence
of a penal statute susceptible of sweeping and improper
application.” Dombrowski, 380 U. S., at
486–487 (internal quotation marks omitted). Absent
overbreadth doctrine, “the contours of regulation[s]”
that impinge on the freedom of speech “would have to be
hammered out case by case—and tested only by those hardy
enough to risk criminal prosecution to determine the proper scope
of regulation.” Id., at 487. We thus allow defendants
whose speech is constitutionally proscribed by a statute (like
Hansen) to argue that the statute is nevertheless facially invalid
under the First Amendment on the grounds that “a substantial
number of its applications are unconstitutional, judged in relation
to the statute’s plainly legitimate sweep.”
Stevens, 559 U. S., at 473 (internal quotation marks
omitted). By permitting this kind of challenge, the Court has
“avoided making vindication of freedom of expression await
the outcome of protracted litigation.” Dombrowski, 380
U. S., at 487.

															If this Court is willing to redline
Congress’s work to save it from unconstitutionality, it
“sharply diminish[es] Congress’s incentive to draft a
narrowly tailored law in the first place,” Stevens,
559 U. S., at 481 (internal quotation marks omitted), which
runs directly counter to overbreadth’s goal of limiting
criminal laws that chill constitutionally protected speech. Thus,
in the particular context of an overbreadth challenge,
countervailing constitutional concerns—namely, that
constitutionally protected speech will be chilled—must be
considered alongside the values that underpin our ordinary canon of
constitutional avoidance.

															Heavy reliance on constitutional avoidance where
statutes would otherwise be facially overbroad also means that the
broad language in the particular statute remains on the
books—as compared to the alternative world, in which the
Court holds the statute unconstitutional as facially overbroad and
thereby prompts the enactment of a narrower replacement. Ordinary
people confronted with the encouragement provision, for instance,
will see only its broad, speech-chilling language. Even if they do
consult this Court’s decision, and do recognize that it
substantially narrows the statute’s scope, the Court’s
decision leaves many things about future potential prosecutions up
in the air.

															For example, one does not know from
today’s determination whether a noncitizen must actually
complete the underlying offense of coming to, entering, or residing
in the United States (à la aiding and abetting) or whether
completion is not a prerequisite for prosecution (à la
solicitation). This sort of uncertainty—the clarification of
which, by the way, should be Congress’s policy
prerogative—may itself dissuade people from engaging in
protected speech.[8] Thus,
regardless of whether a potential speaker has the ability, means,
and time to track down and interpret this decision (or hire a
lawyer to do so) to understand what the law requires, the known
unknowns of the majority’s course portend further chill.

															B

															The majority attempts to downplay the
encouragement provision’s threat to free expression by
highlighting that Hansen “fails to identify a single
prosecution for ostensibly protected expression in the 70 years
since Congress enacted clause (iv)’s immediate
predecessor.” Ante, at 17–18. But the purported
lack of past prosecutions provides no comfort for several
reasons.

															The first is that we have already said as
much—this Court squarely rejected that kind of argument when
the Government raised it in a prior overbreadth challenge. In
Stevens, the Government vigorously asserted that it had
never brought a prosecution implicating the kind of protected
expression that the plain text of the statute in question swept in,
and that it did not intend to do so. 559 U. S., at 480. The
Government “hi[t] this theme hard, invoking its prosecutorial
discretion several times.” Ibid. But we were not
moved: Such a prosecution was permitted by the statute, we noted,
and that was enough to make it a serious threat. “[T]he First
Amendment protects against the Government; it does not leave us at
the mercy of noblesse oblige.” Ibid.

															Second, just as in Stevens, “[t]his
prosecution is itself evidence of the danger in putting faith in
Government representations of prosecutorial restraint.”
Ibid. At trial in this very case, the Government objected to
Hansen’s proposed jury instructions, which would have
required, among other things, that the Government prove that Hansen
intended the noncitizen in question to reside in the United States
illegally. The Government’s objection was telling. It was
based on the argument that the proposed instructions added elements
not found in the text of the statute itself. And the District Court
was persuaded; it sided with the Government in that
regard.[9] But now that the
statute’s validity hangs in the balance, the Government has
reversed course entirely—it now implores us to read into the
statute the very element that it earlier opposed as atextual. See
Brief for United States 23–28.

															This debacle exemplifies the real and
ever-present risk of continuing to have facially overbroad criminal
statutes on the books. In its role as prosecutor, the Government
often stakes out a maximalist position, only later to concede
limits when the statute upon which it relies might be struck down
entirely and the Government finds itself on its back foot.[10] I am not suggesting bad faith on
anyone’s part; these kinds of turnabouts might well be
chalked up to institutional incentives and coordination challenges
in a massive prosecutorial system. But given these dynamics, the
answer to whether the Government has, as of today, prosecuted
Hansen’s hypothetical scenarios may understandably provide
cold comfort to those living and working with immigrants.

															In any event, it makes little sense for the
number of unconstitutional prosecutions to be the litmus test for
whether speech is being chilled by a facially overbroad statute.
The number of people who have not exercised their right to speak
out of fear of prosecution is, quite frankly, unknowable.

															Moreover, criminal prosecutions are not the only
method by which statutes can be wielded to chill free speech.
Hansen’s amici detail how Customs and Border
Protection (CBP) relied on the encouragement provision to justify
its creation of a “watchlist” of potential speakers
that CBP had compiled in connection with its monitoring of a large
group of migrants—a list that included journalists simply
reporting factual information about the group’s progress.
Brief for Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press as Amicus
Curiae 5–6. CBP allegedly compiled dossiers on those
reporters and singled them out as targets for special screenings.
Ibid. There can be no doubt that this kind of Government
surveillance—targeted at journalists reporting on an
important topic of public concern, no less—tends to chill
speech, even though it falls short of an actual prosecution.

															Hansen’s amici also describe how a
group of Members of Congress recently sent a letter to three
religious organizations that help undocumented immigrants,
directing the organizations to preserve documents and
communications related to their work in advance of a potential
congressional investigation into whether such organizations are
“ ‘harbor[ing], transport[ing], and
encourag[ing] ’ ” noncitizens to
settle unlawfully in this country. Brief for Religious
Organizations as Amici Curiae 34 (emphasis added). Again,
this kind of letter invoking the language of the encouragement
provision can plainly chill speech, even though it is not a
prosecution (and, for that matter, even if a formal investigation
never materializes).

															The majority nevertheless derides the fears of
Hansen and his amici as an overimaginative
“parad[e]” of “horribles.” Ante, at
18. But what may seem “fanciful” to this Court at great
remove, ante, at 5, might well prove to be a significant
obstacle for those on the ground who operate daily in the shadow of
the law. The “gravity” of the encouragement
provision’s chilling effect is “underscored by the
filings of . . . amici curiae in support
of ” Hansen—including briefs from lawyers,
immigration advocacy organizations, religious and other charitable
organizations, journalists, local governments, and nonprofit policy
institutions from across the ideological spectrum. Americans for
Prosperity Foundation v. Bonta, 594 U. S. ___, ___
(2021) (slip op., at 17).

															The substantial concerns that amici from
such diverse walks of life raise illustrate that the
“deterrent effect feared by” Hansen and his
amici “is real and pervasive.” Id., at
___ (slip op., at 18). Moreover, at the end of the day, those fears
reflect a determination to view enacted statutes as serious
business, and, essentially, to take Congress at its word. This
Court should have done the same.

															As written, the encouragement provision is
overbroad. Therefore, it should have been deemed facially
unconstitutional and invalid under the First Amendment, as the
Ninth Circuit held.

Notes
1
 Previously, even the
Government rejected the majority’s view of the
statute’s scope at trial, when it was seeking to convict the
defendant. See Part III, infra.
2
 There is accordingly no
need to dwell on the contents of category two here. The majority
discusses several examples, like “issuing fraudulent Social
Security numbers to noncitizens.” Ante, at 17 (citing
Edwards v. Prime, Inc., 602 F.3d 1276,
1295–1297 (CA11 2010)).
3
 This is not a surplusage
argument. Cf. ante, at 15, n. 2. I agree with the
majority that clause (iv) and clause (v)(II) have different aims.
My point, instead, is that Congress’s failure to use the
classic “aids or abets” language in clause (iv), which
it deploys just next door in clause (v)(II), should give us pause
before concluding that we can read clause (iv) as if it included
the same terms.
4
 This revealing revision
also sets apart the encouragement provision’s unadorned use
of “encourages” and “induces” from the
majority’s long list of state solicitation and facilitation
laws. Ante, at 8. The majority includes that list in its
effort to demonstrate that “encourages” and
“induces” in the encouragement provision actually mean
“solicits” or “aids and abets.” But in the
vast majority of the cited statutes, classic narrowing
terms—like “aided,” “abetted,”
“solicits,” “commands,”
“hires,” “coerces,” or
“compels”—appear alongside
“encourages” or “induces.” Ibid.;
see App. to Brief for State of Montana et al. as Amici
Curiae 1–44. Thus, unlike the one before us, such
statutes might well be susceptible of a narrower
reading.
5
 As a side note:
Congress’s addition of “reside” might seem to
sweep in speakers who encouraged or induced noncitizens “who
were already unlawfully present in the U. S. to
continue that unlawful presence.” 40 F. 4th 1049,
1073, n. 1 (CA9 2022) (Collins, J., dissenting from denial of
reh’g en banc). But as Judge Collins explained, the provision
is “most naturally read” to reach only “those who
encourage or induce particular [noncitizens] to acquire an
unlawful presence or residence that they do not already
have.” Ibid. After all, “[o]ne does not normally
speak of ‘inducing’ another to do what he or she is
already doing.” Ibid. And the principle of noscitur
a sociis counsels in favor of such an understanding, given that
“the first two listed verbs (‘come to’ and
‘enter’) plainly refer to such an acquisition.”
Ibid.
6
 Hansen takes issue with
this feature of the statute, arguing that the
“ ‘speech integral to criminal conduct’
exception” to the First Amendment’s protection of free
speech “does not permit the criminal punishment of
speech encouraging only a civil law violation.” Brief
for Respondent 39. The majority declines to address this argument,
leaving it available in future as-applied challenges to this and
other statutes. Ante, at 19, n. 5, 20.
7
 The majority implies that
constitutional avoidance is a backup argument. Ante, at 16
(suggesting that its reading of the statute is the “best
one”). But, in my view, the text and history of the
encouragement provision make it hard to get even close to the
majority’s narrow reading without substantial reliance on the
constitutional-avoidance principle.
8
 The Government also
struggled at oral argument before this Court to articulate what
scenarios the statute would (and would not) reach under its theory.
But it notably represented that it did not believe it could validly
prosecute a son who reassures his noncitizen mother (who lives
unlawfully in the United States with him and his family) that she
is not a burden on them and that his children love having their
grandmother around. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 35.
9
 As the Government
conceded during oral argument before this Court, given that its
elements argument prevailed below, the instructions that the
District Court gave to the jury in this case were legally
erroneous. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 11; see also id., at
39–40 (acknowledging that the Court “should send the
case back to the Ninth Circuit and let the Ninth Circuit decide
what’s appropriate in light of ” the flawed
instructions).
10  The
Court has seen similar moves in multiple cases just this Term. See
Ciminelli v. United States, 598 U.S. 306,
316–317 (2023); Percoco v. United States, 598
U.S. 319, 332–333 (2023); Dubin v. United
States, 599 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2023) (slip op., at
2–3).


