::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-10
::decision_name::  Dubin v. United States
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–10

															_________________

															David Fox Dubin, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 8, 2023]

															

															Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															There is no dispute that petitioner David Fox
Dubin overbilled Medicaid for psychological testing. The question
is whether, in defrauding Medicaid, he also committed
“[a]ggravated identity theft,” 18 U. S. C.
§1028A(a)(1), triggering a mandatory 2-year prison sentence.
The Fifth Circuit found that he did, based on a reading of the
statute that covers defendants who fraudulently inflate the price
of a service or good they actually provided. On that sweeping
reading, as long as a billing or payment method employs another
person’s name or other identifying information, that is
enough. A lawyer who rounds up her hours from 2.9 to 3 and bills
her client electronically has committed aggravated identity theft.
The same is true of a waiter who serves flank steak but charges for
filet mignon using an electronic payment method.

															The text and context of the statute do not
support such a boundless interpretation. Instead, §1028A(a)(1)
is violated when the defendant’s misuse of another
person’s means of identification is at the crux of what makes
the underlying offense criminal, rather than merely an ancillary
feature of a billing method. Here, the crux of petitioner’s
overbilling was inflating the value of services actually provided,
while the patient’s means of identification was an ancillary
part of the Medicaid billing process.

															I

															David Dubin helped his father manage a
psychological services company. This company submitted a claim for
reimbursement to Medicaid for psychological testing by a licensed
psychologist. In fact, however, the claim overstated the
qualifications of the employee who actually performed the testing
and who was only a licensed psychological associate. This
falsehood inflated the amount of reimbursement. Petitioner also
changed the date on which the examination occurred.[1] Even with the inflation, the total
reimbursement was only $338. App. 49. Petitioner was accordingly
charged with healthcare fraud, a federal offense under 18
U. S. C. §1347. According to the Government,
however, petitioner’s conduct also constituted
“[a]ggravated identity theft” under
§1028A(a)(1).

															Section 1028A(a)(1) applies when a defendant,
“during and in relation to any [predicate offense], knowingly
transfers, possesses, or uses, without lawful authority, a means of
identification of another person.” The predicate offenses
include, among many others, healthcare fraud. §1028A(c)(4).
Section 1028A(a)(1) carries a severe penalty: a mandatory minimum
sentence of two years in prison “in addition to the
punishment” for the predicate offense.

															According to the Government, this is a clear
aggravated identity theft case. The Government argued at trial that
§1028A(a)(1) was automatically satisfied because
petitioner’s fraudulent billing included the patient’s
Medicaid reimbursement number (a “means of
identification”). The District Court was less sure.
“[T]his doesn’t seem to be an aggravated identity theft
case” the court explained, as “the whole crux of this
case is how [petitioner was] billing.” App. 37–38. This
overbilling was “criminal,” but it “wasn’t
aggravated identity theft.” Id., at 38. Nevertheless,
the District Court denied petitioner’s post-trial challenge
to his aggravated identity theft conviction, explaining that
contrary Fifth Circuit precedent tied its hands. The court said
that it “hope[d]” it would “get reversed.”
Id., at 39.

															On appeal, a Fifth Circuit panel affirmed. On
rehearing en banc, a fractured court affirmed again. Five judges
who agreed with the Government nonetheless acknowledged that under
the Government’s reading of §1028A(a)(1), “the
elements of [the] offense are not captured or even fairly described
by the words ‘identity theft.’ ” 27
F. 4th 1021, 1024 (2022) (Richman, C. J., concurring).
Eight dissenting judges agreed on this point.

															This type of prosecution is not uncommon. The
Government has, by its own admission, wielded §1028A(a)(1)
well beyond ordinary understandings of identity theft. One
prosecution targeted a defendant who “made a counterfeit
handgun permit” for another person, using that person’s
real name and at that person’s request. United States
v. Spears, 729 F.3d 753, 754 (CA7 2013) (en banc). Another
involved unlicensed doctors who violated the law by
“issu[ing] prescriptions that their [actual] patients would
then fill at . . . pharmacies.” United
States v. Berroa, 856 F.3d 141, 148, 155–156 (CA1
2017). There was also a prosecution involving an ambulance service
inflating its reimbursement rates by “mischaracteriz[ing] the
nature of the transports, saying that the patients had required
stretchers when they had not.” United States v.
Michael, 882 F.3d 624, 628 (CA6 2018) (citing United
States v. Medlock, 792 F.3d 700, 705 (CA6 2015)). Yet
another prosecution involved a defendant who “provided
massage services to patients to treat their pain,” but
improperly billed this “as a Medicare-eligible physical
therapy service.” United States v. Hong, 938
F.3d 1040, 1051 (CA9 2019).

															Many lower courts have responded to such
prosecutions with more restrained readings of the aggravated
identity theft statute.[2] The
Fifth Circuit did not. To resolve the conflict in the courts below,
this Court granted certiorari, 598 U. S. ___ (2022), and now
vacates the judgment of the Fifth Circuit and remands.[3]

															II

															A

															This case turns on two of
§1028A(a)(1)’s elements. Of the various possible ways to
violate §1028A(a)(1), petitioner was convicted for
“us[ing]” a patient’s means of identification
“in relation to” healthcare fraud. The parties offer
competing readings of these two elements.

															The Government reads the terms broadly and in
isolation. On the Government’s view, “[a] defendant
uses a means of identification ‘in relation to’ a
predicate offense if the use of that means of identification
‘facilitates or furthers’ the predicate offense in some
way.” Brief for United States 10 (quoting Smith v.
United States, 508 U.S.
223, 232 (1993)). As to “uses,” the Government
seems just to mean “employ[s]” in any sense. Brief for
United States 5, 7, 10–11. Section 1028A(a)(1) would thus
apply automatically any time a name or other means of
identification happens to be part of the payment or billing method
used in the commission of a long list of predicate offenses. In
other words, virtually all of the time.

															Petitioner, in response, offers a more targeted
reading. For petitioner, using a means of identification in
relation to a predicate offense requires “a genuine nexus to
the predicate offense.” Brief for Petitioner 15. On this
reading, the means of identification is at the crux of what makes
the predicate offense criminal, rather than merely an ancillary
feature of a payment method. When the underlying crime involves
fraud or deceit, as many of §1028A’s predicates do, this
entails using a means of identification specifically in a
fraudulent or deceitful manner.

															To illustrate, petitioner borrows a heuristic
from the Sixth Circuit. See Michael, 882 F. 3d, at 628.
The relevant language in §1028A(a)(1) “covers
misrepresenting who received a certain service,” but
not “fraudulent claims regarding how or when a
service was performed.” Brief for Petitioner 15. In other
words, fraud going to identity, not misrepresentation about
services actually provided. Take an ambulance service that actually
transported patients but inflated the number of miles driven. The
crux of this fraud was “how” services were rendered;
the patients’ names were part of the billing process, but
ancillary to what made the conduct fraudulent. See Michael,
882 F. 3d, at 628–629. In contrast, take the pharmacist
who swipes information from the pharmacy’s files and uses it
to open a bank account in a patient’s name. That
“misuse of th[e] means of identification” would be
“integral to” what made the conduct fraudulent, because
misrepresentation about who was involved was at the crux of the
fraud. Id., at 629.

															In deciding between the parties’ readings,
one limited and one near limitless, precedent and prudence require
a careful examination of §1028A(a)(1)’s text and
structure. While “uses” and “in relation
to” are, in isolation, indeterminate, the statutory context,
taken as a whole, points to a narrower reading.

															B

															In interpreting the scope of
“uses” and “in relation to,” the Court
begins with those terms themselves. Both terms have been singled
out by this Court as particularly sensitive to context, and they do
not, standing alone, conclusively resolve this case.

															Start with “uses.” As the Court has
observed more than once, “the word ‘use’ poses
some interpretational difficulties because of the different
meanings attributable to it.” Bailey v. United
States, 516 U.S.
137, 143 (1995); see also Leocal v. Ashcroft,
543 U.S.
1, 9 (2004). The “ ‘ordinary or natural
meaning’ ” of
“ ‘use’ ” is “variously
defined as ‘[t]o convert to one’s service,’
‘to employ,’ ‘to avail oneself of,’ and
‘to carry out a purpose or action by means
of.’ ” Bailey, 516 U. S., at 145.
“These various definitions of ‘use’ imply action
and implementation.” Ibid. Beyond that general
concept, however, “ ‘use’ takes on different
meanings depending on context,” and because it “draws
meaning from its context, . . . we will look not only to
the word itself, but also to the statute and the [surrounding]
scheme, to determine the meaning Congress intended.”
Id., at 143; see also Leocal, 543 U. S., at 9
(“Particularly when interpreting a statute that features as
elastic a word as ‘use,’ we construe language in its
context and in light of the terms surrounding it”).

															For example, the federal arson statute only
applies to buildings “ ‘used in’ commerce or
commerce-affecting activity.” Jones v. United
States, 529 U.S.
848, 850–851 (2000). In that statutory context, the Court
distinguished between uses of a building as “the locus of any
commercial undertaking,” and noncovered
“passive,” “passing,” or ancillary uses of
a building “as collateral to obtain and secure a
mortgage” or to obtain an insurance policy. Id., at
855–856. It is statutory context, therefore, that determines
what kind of active employment or conversion to one’s service
triggers §1028A(a)(1)’s harsh penalty.

															“In relation to” is similarly
context sensitive. If “ ‘relate to’ were
taken to extend to the furthest stretch of its indeterminacy, then
for all practical purposes” there would be no limits, as
“ ‘[r]eally, universally, relations stop
nowhere.’ ” New York State Conference of Blue
Cross & Blue Shield Plans v. Travelers Ins. Co.,
514 U.S.
645, 655 (1995) (quoting H. James, Roderick Hudson xli (New
York ed., World’s Classics 1980)). This language thus cannot
be “considered in isolation,” Maracich v.
Spears, 570 U.S.
48, 59 (2013), and the Court must “go beyond the
unhelpful text and the frustrating difficulty of defining [this]
key term” and look to statutory context. Travelers,
514 U. S., at 656. That the phrase refers to a relationship or
nexus of some kind is clear. See Smith, 508 U. S., at
238 (“ ‘[I]n relation to’ ”
requires “some purpose or effect” between two things).
Yet the kind of relationship required, its nature and strength,
will be informed by context.

															The presence of two such context-dependent terms
renders §1028A(a)(1) doubly attuned to its surroundings. The
parties’ competing readings both fall within the range of
meanings of “uses” and “in relation to,”
taken alone. Resort to context is thus especially necessary
here.[4]

															C

															Having found the key terms “use”
and “in relation to” indeterminate, the next step is to
look to their surrounding words. After all, “a
statute’s meaning does not always turn solely on the broadest
imaginable definitions of its component words.” Epic
Systems Corp. v. Lewis, 584 U. S. ___, ___ (2018)
(slip op., at 23) (internal quotation marks omitted). Instead,
“[l]inguistic and statutory context also matter.”
Ibid. Even in cases where “the literal language of the
statute is neutral” in isolation, reading “the whole
phrase” can point to a more targeted reading.
Marinello v. United States, 584 U. S. ___,
___–___ (2018) (slip op., at 4–5).

															Such is the case here. Section
1028A(a)(1)’s title and terms both point to a narrower
reading, one centered around the ordinary understanding of identity
theft. This cuts against the Government’s broad reading,
which the Government admits bears little relationship to the common
understanding of identity theft. In contrast, a more targeted
reading accurately captures the ordinary understanding of identity
theft, where misuse of a means of identification is at the crux of
the criminality.

															1

															Start at the top, with the words Congress
chose for §1028A’s title: “Aggravated identity
theft.” 118Stat. 831. This Court has long considered that
“ ‘the title of a statute and the heading of a
section’ are ‘tools available for the resolution of a
doubt’ about the meaning of a statute.”
Almendarez-Torres v. United States, 523 U.S.
224, 234 (1998) (quoting Trainmen v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., 331 U.S.
519, 528–529 (1947)). A title will not, of course,
“override the plain words” of a statute. Fulton
v. Philadelphia, 593 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op.,
at 9). Yet here, the key terms are so “elastic” that
they must be construed “in light of the terms surrounding
[them],” Leocal, 543 U. S., at 9, and the title
Congress chose is among those terms. Even the Government
acknowledged that if the terms in §1028A(a)(1) are unclear,
“the title is a useful clue.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 80.

															Two additional points bolster this approach.
First, the title here is not serving the unenviable role of pithily
summarizing a list of “complicated and prolific”
provisions. Trainmen, 331 U. S., at 528. Section 1028A
is a focused, standalone provision. Second, a title is
“especially valuable [where] it reinforces what the
text’s nouns and verbs independently suggest.”
Yates v. United States, 574 U.S.
528, 552 (2015) (Alito, J., concurring in judgment). As
explained below, §1028A(a)(1)’s text independently
suggests a focus on identity theft. See infra, at
12–15.

															Indeed, this Court has already once used
§1028A’s title and place in the statutory scheme to shed
light on its text. In Flores-Figueroa v. United
States, 556 U.S.
646 (2009), this Court pointed out that a neighboring
provision, §1028, carries the broad title
“ ‘Fraud and related activity in connection with
identification documents, authentication features, and
information.’ ” Id., at 655. Section 1028A,
in contrast, is far more targeted, “us[ing] the words
‘identity theft.’ ” Ibid. That
“Congress separated the [identity] fraud crime from the
[identity] theft crime in” §1028A suggests that
§1028A is focused on identity theft specifically, rather than
all fraud involving means of identification. Ibid.[5]

															Given that, it is abundantly clear why the
Government urges the Court to ignore the title. The
Government’s broad reading, covering any time another
person’s means of identification is employed in a way that
facilitates a crime, bears little resemblance to any ordinary
meaning of “identity theft.” Consider again an
unlicensed doctor who fills out a prescription actually requested
by a patient; no one would call that identity theft. Even judges
below who agreed with the Government’s reading of
§1028A(a)(1), and ultimately the Government itself,
acknowledged that its reading of §1028A(a)(1) does not fairly
capture the ordinary meaning of identity theft. Nor is the
difference just around the edges; the Government’s reading
would, in practice, place garden-variety overbilling at the core of
§1028A.

															Instead, “identity theft” has a
focused meaning. One dictionary defines identity theft as
“the fraudulent appropriation and use of another
person’s identifying data or documents, as a credit
card.” Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary xi (2d ed. 2001)
(Webster’s). Another similarly offers “[t]he unlawful
taking and use of another person’s identifying information
for fraudulent purposes; specif[ically] a crime in which someone
steals personal information about and belonging to another, such as
a bank-account number or driver’s-license number, and uses
the information to deceive others.” Black’s Law
Dictionary 894 (11th ed. 2019) (Black’s) (defining
“identity theft”).[6]

															This supports a reading of “in relation
to” where use of the means of identification is at the crux
of the underlying criminality. These definitions refer to offenses
built around what the defendant does with the means of
identification in particular. In other words, the means of
identification specifically is a key mover in the criminality. This
central role played by the means of identification, which serves to
designate a specific person’s identity, explains why we say
that the “identity” itself has been stolen. See,
e.g., Spears, 729 F. 3d, at 756 (“identity
theft” occurs when someone’s “identity has been
stolen or misappropriated”). This helps explain why the
examples resulting from the Government’s theory do not sound
like identity theft. If a lawyer rounds up her hours from 2.9 to 3
and bills her client using his name, the name itself is not
specifically a source of fraud; it only plays an ancillary role in
the billing process. The same is true for the waiter who
substitutes one cut of meat for another; we might say the filet
mignon’s identity was stolen, perhaps, but not the
diner’s.

															This understanding of identity theft also
supports a more targeted definition of “uses.” The word
“use” appears in these definitions with a specific
meaning: Identity theft encompasses when a defendant
“uses the information to deceive others,”
Black’s 894 (emphasis added), and “the fraudulent
. . . use” of a means of identification,
Webster’s xi (emphasis added). In other words, identity theft
is committed when a defendant uses the means of identification
itself to defraud or deceive. This tracks the Sixth Circuit’s
heuristic. When a means of identification is used deceptively, this
deception goes to “who” is involved, rather than just
“how” or “when” services were provided. Use
of the means of identification would therefore be at “the
locus of [the criminal] undertaking,” rather than merely
“passive,” “passing,” or ancillary
employment in a crime. Jones, 529 U. S., at
855–856.

															On top of that, §1028A’s title is not
just “identity theft,” but “Aggravated identity
theft.” Typically, “[a]n ‘aggravated’
offense is one ‘made worse or more serious by circumstances
such as violence, the presence of a deadly weapon, or the intent to
commit another crime.’ ” Carachuri-Rosendo
v. Holder, 560 U.S.
563, 574 (2010) (quoting Black’s Law Dictionary 75 (9th
ed. 2009)). This suggests that Congress had in mind a particularly
serious form of identity theft. Yet the Government’s reading
“would apply an ‘aggravated’ . . .
label” to all manner of everyday overbilling offenses.
Carachuri-Rosendo, 560 U. S., at 574. “Of course
. . . Congress, like ‘Humpty Dumpty,’ has the
power to give words unorthodox meanings.” Id., at 575.
Yet where “the Government argues for a result that the
English language tells us not to expect, . . . we must be
very wary of the Government’s position.” Ibid.
(internal quotation marks omitted).

															The title suggests identity theft is at the core
of §1028A(a)(1). On the Government’s reading, however,
everyday overbilling would become the most common trigger for
§1028A(a)(1)’s severe penalty. This would turn the core
of “worse or more serious” identity theft into
something the ordinary user of the English language would not
consider identity theft at all.

															2

															The title is, by definition, just the
beginning. A title does not supplant the actual text of the
provision, as the Government observes. The problem for the
Government is that §1028A(a)(1)’s language points in the
same direction as its title. In particular, Congress used a trio of
verbs that reflect an ordinary understanding of identity theft.

															While “uses” is indeterminate in
isolation, here it has company. Section 1028A(a)(1) applies when a
defendant “knowingly transfers, possesses, or
uses, without lawful authority, a means of identification of
another person,” “during and in relation to” any
predicate offense. (Emphasis added.) “Under the familiar
interpretive canon noscitur a sociis, ‘a word is known
by the company it keeps.’ ” McDonnell v.
United States, 579 U.S. 550, 568–569 (2016) (quoting
Jarecki v. G. D. Searle & Co., 367 U.S.
303, 307 (1961)). “[T]his canon is often wisely applied
where a word is capable of many meanings in order to avoid the
giving of unintended breadth to the Acts of Congress.”
McDonnell, 579 U. S., at 569 (internal quotation marks
omitted).

															The two neighboring verbs here,
“transfers” and “possesses,” are most
naturally read in the context of §1028A(a)(1) to connote
theft. While it is not necessary to determine the precise metes and
bounds of these two verbs, their role in the provision points to
this targeted reading. Section 1028A(a)(1) covers unlawful
possession or transfer of a means of identification belonging to
“another person.” Generally, to unlawfully
“possess” something belonging to another person
suggests it has been stolen. And to unlawfully
“transfer” something belonging to another person
similarly connotes misappropriating it and passing it along. In
Flores-Figueroa, this Court drew a similarly intuitive link
between a defendant taking a means of identification he knows
belongs to another person and
“ ‘theft.’ ” 556 U. S., at
655. The Government, at argument, agreed: these two verbs
“refer to circumstances in which the information is
stolen.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 90.[7]

															“Transfer” and “possess”
not only connote theft, but identity theft in particular. The verbs
point to (1) theft of a (2) means of identification belonging to
(3) another person. That tracks ordinary understandings of identity
theft: “a crime in which someone [1] steals [2] personal
information about and [3] belonging to another.”
Black’s 894. Similarly, “the [1] fraudulent
appropriation and use of [3] another person’s [2] identifying
data or documents.” Webster’s xi. If this parallel were
not enough, §1028A(a)(1)’s title indicates that the type
of theft its verbs connote is identity theft specifically.

															Because “transfer” and
“possess” channel ordinary identity theft, noscitur
a sociis indicates that “uses” should be read in a
similar manner to its companions. See McDonnell, 579
U. S., at 568–569. “Uses” is quite amenable
to such a reading, and not just because of its indeterminacy. As
explained above, “using” another person’s means
of identification to deceive or defraud is a common feature of
identity theft. See Webster’s xi (“the fraudulent
. . . use” of a means of identification
(emphasis added)); Black’s 894 (when a defendant
“uses the information to deceive others”
(emphasis added)).

															Congress thus employed a trio of verbs that
capture various aspects of “classic identity theft.”
Flores-Figueroa, 556 U. S., at 656. There is
“the defendant [who] has gone through someone else’s
trash to find discarded credit card and bank statements,”
ibid., and thus has taken possession unlawfully. There is
the bank employee who passes along customer information to an
accomplice, and thus transfers it unlawfully. Then there is use
involving fraud or deceit about identity: “a defendant [who]
has used another person’s identification information to get
access to that person’s bank account.” Ibid.

															Another canon of construction offers a further
point in favor of this narrow interpretation. The Court
“assume[s] that Congress used [three] terms because it
intended each term to a have a particular, nonsuperfluous
meaning.” Bailey, 516 U. S., at 146. Reading
§1028A(a)(1)’s operative verbs as tracking aspects of
classic identity theft, each verb has an independent role to play.
As the definitions reveal, identity theft covers both when
“someone steals personal information about and
belonging to another . . . and uses the
information to deceive others,” Black’s 894 (emphasis
added), and “fraudulent appropriation and
use,” Webster’s xi (emphasis added). Identity
theft thus intermingles aspects of theft and fraud,
misappropriation and deceitful use. Section 1028A(a)(1)’s
three verbs capture this complexity. While “transfer”
and “possess” conjure up two steps of theft,
“uses” supplies the deceitful use aspect.

															In contrast, if §1028A(a)(1)’s verbs
do not track identity theft and if the means of identification need
only facilitate the predicate offense, the other two verbs threaten
to leave “uses” without “virtually any
function.” Bailey, 516 U. S., at 146. Return to a
definition of “in relation to” that just means
“ ‘facilitates or furthers’ the predicate
offense in some way.” Brief for United States 10. In
virtually all cases where a defendant employs a means of
identification to facilitate a crime, the defendant will also
possess or transfer the means of identification in a way that
facilitates the crime. For example, petitioner’s possession
of the patient’s means of identification facilitated the
fraud, as did petitioner’s transfer of the patient’s
means of identification to Medicaid. It is hard to imagine when
“uses” would not similarly be covered by, at least, one
of the two other verbs. This risk of superfluity suggests giving
§1028A(a)(1) a more precise reading.

															In sum, §1028A(a)(1)’s title and text
are mutually reinforcing. Both point toward requiring the means of
identification to be at the crux of the criminality.

															D

															Section 1028A’s list of predicate
offenses points to yet another stumbling block for the
Government’s broad reading. Section 1028A(a)(1) is an
enhancement, and a severe one at that. It adds a 2-year mandatory
prison sentence onto underlying offenses that do not impose a
mandatory prison sentence of any kind. See, e.g., 18
U. S. C. §1035 (“[f]alse statements relating
to health care matters,” setting no minimum sentence). This
prevents sentencing judges from considering the severity of the
offense, even if the amount of money involved was quite small or
there are other mitigating factors. Interpretation of
§1028A(a)(1) should thus reflect the “distinction
between” the aggravated identity theft crimes that
“Congress sought to distinguish for heightened punishment and
other crimes.” Leocal, 543 U. S., at 11.

															Far from distinguishing, the Government’s
reading collapses the enhancement into the enhanced. Here, the
Government claims that because petitioner’s overbilling was
facilitated by the patient’s Medicaid reimbursement number,
§1028A(a)(1) automatically applies. Patient names or other
identifiers will, of course, be involved in the great majority of
healthcare billing, whether Medicare for massages, Hong, 938
F. 3d, at 1051, or for ambulance stretcher services,
Medlock, 792 F. 3d, at 706. Patient names will be on
prescriptions, Berroa, 856 F. 3d, at 148,
155–156, and patients committing fraud on their own behalf
will often have to include the names of others on their forms, such
as doctors or employers. Under the Government’s own reading,
such cases are “automatically identity theft,” Tr. of
Oral Arg. 82, independent of whether the name itself had anything
to do with the fraudulent aspect of the offense.

															Nor are these implications confined to
healthcare. Section 1028A(a)(1)’s predicates include a vast
array of offenses, including wire fraud and mail fraud.
§1028A(c)(5). The Government’s boundless reading of
“uses” and “in relation to” would cover
facilitating mail fraud by using another person’s name to
address a letter to them.[8]
Even beyond that, names or other means of identification are used
routinely for billing and payment, whether payment apps, credit and
debit cards, a bill sent by mail, or an invoice sent
electronically. So long as the criteria for the broad predicate
offenses are met, the Government’s reading creates an
automatic 2-year sentence for generic overbilling that happens to
use ubiquitous payment methods.

															A far more sensible conclusion from the
statutory structure is that §1028A(a)(1)’s enhancement
is not indiscriminate, but targets situations where the means of
identification itself plays a key role—one that warrants a
2-year mandatory minimum. This points once more to a targeted
reading, where the means of identification is at the crux of the
underlying criminality, not an ancillary feature of billing.

															E

															If more were needed, a final clue comes from
the staggering breadth of the Government’s reading. This
Court has “ ‘traditionally exercised restraint in
assessing the reach of a federal criminal
statute.’ ” Marinello, 584 U. S., at
___ (slip op., at 9) (quoting United States v.
Aguilar, 515 U.S.
593, 600 (1995)); see also Arthur Andersen LLP v.
United States, 544 U.S.
696, 703–704 (2005); McBoyle v. United
States, 283 U.S.
25, 27
(1931). This restraint arises “both out of deference to the
prerogatives of Congress and out of concern that a fair warning
should be given to the world in language that the common world will
understan[d] of what the law intends to do if a certain line is
passed.” Marinello, 584 U. S., at ___ (slip op.,
at 4) (internal quotation marks omitted). After all,
“[c]rimes are supposed to be defined by the legislature, not
by clever prosecutors riffing on equivocal language.”
Spears, 729 F. 3d, at 758.

															Time and again, this Court has prudently avoided
reading incongruous breadth into opaque language in criminal
statutes. In Van Buren v. United States, 593
U. S. ___ (2021), the “far-reaching consequences”
of the Government’s reading “underscore[d] the
implausibility of the Government’s interpretation.”
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 17). In Marinello, the
Court rejected the Government’s reading of a statute about
obstructing administration of the Tax Code that would have swept in
the “person who pays a babysitter $41 per week in cash
without withholding taxes,” as well as someone who
“leaves a large cash tip in a restaurant, fails to keep
donation receipts from every charity to which he or she
contributes, or fails to provide every record to an
accountant.” 584 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7). Nor was
all such conduct innocent, as the statute required an individual to
act “ ‘corruptly.’ ” Id.,
at ___ (slip op., at 8). Even still, “[h]ad Congress
intended” to sweep so far, “it would have spoken with
more clarity than it did.” Id., at ___ (slip op., at
7). In Yates, the Court held that the Government’s
“unrestrained” reading would have turned a provision
focused on “records” and “documents” into
“an all-encompassing ban on the spoliation of evidence”
that would “sweep within its reach physical objects of every
kind,” including a fish. 574 U. S., at 536, 540
(plurality opinion). Had Congress set out to do so, “one
would have expected a clearer indication of that intent.”
Ibid.

															So too here. The Government’s reading
would sweep in the hour-inflating lawyer, the steak-switching
waiter, the building contractor who tacks an extra $10 onto the
price of the paint he purchased. So long as they used various
common billing methods, they would all be subject to a mandatory
two years in federal prison. To say that such a result is
implausible would be an understatement.[9] Because everyday overbilling cases would account for
the majority of violations in practice, the Government’s
reading places at the core of the statute its most improbable
applications.

															Finally, the Government makes a familiar plea:
There is no reason to mistrust its sweeping reading, because
prosecutors will act responsibly. To this, the Court gives a
just-as-familiar response: We “cannot construe a criminal
statute on the assumption that the Government will ‘use it
responsibly.’ ” McDonnell, 579 U. S.,
at 576 (quoting United States v. Stevens, 559 U.S.
460, 480 (2010)). “[T]o rely upon prosecutorial
discretion to narrow the otherwise wide-ranging scope of a criminal
statute’s highly abstract general statutory language places
great power in the hands of the prosecutor.”
Marinello, 584 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9). This
concern is particularly salient here. If §1028A(a)(1) applies
virtually automatically to a swath of predicate offenses, the
prosecutor can hold the threat of charging an additional 2-year
mandatory prison sentence over the head of any defendant who is
considering going to trial.

															III

															All the points above are different wells
drawing from the same source. The Court need not decide whether any
of these points, standing alone, would be dispositive. Taken
together, from text to context, from content to common sense,
§1028A(a)(1) is not amenable to the Government’s attempt
to push the statutory envelope. A defendant “uses”
another person’s means of identification “in relation
to” a predicate offense when this use is at the crux of what
makes the conduct criminal. To be clear, being at the crux of the
criminality requires more than a causal relationship, such as
“ ‘facilitation’ ” of the offense
or being a but-for cause of its “success.” Post,
at 3, 5–6 (Gorsuch, J., concurring in judgment). Instead,
with fraud or deceit crimes like the one in this case, the means of
identification specifically must be used in a manner that is
fraudulent or deceptive. Such fraud or deceit going to identity can
often be succinctly summarized as going to “who” is
involved.[10]

															Here, petitioner’s use of the
patient’s name was not at the crux of what made the
underlying overbilling fraudulent. The crux of the healthcare fraud
was a misrepresentation about the qualifications of
petitioner’s employee. The patient’s name was an
ancillary feature of the billing method employed. The Sixth
Circuit’s more colloquial formulation is a helpful guide,
though like any rule of thumb it will have its limits. Here,
however, it neatly captures the thrust of the analysis, as
petitioner’s fraud was in misrepresenting how and
when services were provided to a patient, not who
received the services.

															*  *  *

															Because petitioner did not use the
patient’s means of identification in relation to a predicate
offense within the meaning of §1028A(a)(1), the judgment of
the Court of Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded for
further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 The parties dispute
whether changing the date affected the availability of Medicaid
reimbursement. The Court does not reach that question, as the
outcome of this case would be the same either way.
2
 See Berroa, 856
F. 3d, at 148, 155–157; Michael, 882 F. 3d,
at 628; Spears, 729 F. 3d, at 754; Hong, 938
F. 3d, at 1051.
3
 The Government argued
below that because petitioner did not properly raise certain
challenges to his §1028A conviction, he cannot obtain relief
without meeting the higher bar for plain-error review. The Fifth
Circuit below did not decide that question, which this Court leaves
for remand.
4
 The Government tries to
head off any contextual analysis at the pass, urging that
“uses” and “during and in relation to” in
§1028A(a)(1) must be read identically to Smith and
other of this Court’s cases interpreting 18
U. S. C. §924(c)(1)(A). That provision applies to
“any person who, during and in relation to any crime of
violence or drug trafficking crime . . . uses or carries
a firearm.” One need look no further than this Court’s
§924(c) case law to see why this argument fails. The teaching
of those cases is that because “use” “draws
meaning from its context, . . . we will look not only to
the word itself, but also to the statute and the [broader]
scheme.” Bailey v. United States, 516 U.S.
137, 143 (1995). Section 1028A(a)(1) differs greatly from
§924(c), from the thing that is “used,” to the
title, to the nature of the predicate offenses to which the
enhancement relates. Words can wound, but names and numbers are not
guns. If anything, the ubiquity of names and their vast range of
“uses” makes the verb especially indeterminate in this
context. For that same reason, the Court’s decision today
does not alter its §924(c) case law.
5
 Flores-Figueroa
held that under §1028A(a)(1) a defendant must know “that
the ‘means of identification’ he or she unlawfully
transferred, possessed, or used, in fact, belonged to
‘another person.’ ” 556 U. S., at 647.
The Court not only looked to §1028A(a)(1)’s
theft-focused title and role in the statutory structure, but also
drew on an understanding that the provision covers “classic
identity theft.” Id., at 655–656.
6
 “Steal[ing]”
can, of course, include situations where something was initially
lawfully acquired. See Black’s 1710 (defining
“steal”).
7
 Those who find
legislative history helpful will find yet further support.
“[P]ossesses” refers to “someone who has wrongly
acquired another’s means of identification, but has not yet
put it to use or transferred it elsewhere.” H. R. Rep.
No. 108–528, p. 10 (2004). “[T]ransfers” is
when the defendant “transferred it to another person or
location where it can be put to use.” Ibid. And
“uses” is when “a defendant . . .
obtained someone else’s means of identification and actually
put that means of identification to use.”
Ibid.
8
 To avoid this, the
Government has advanced a medley of shifting and inconsistent
readings of “without lawful authority,” another element
of §1028A(a)(1). Sometimes the Government has claimed that a
defendant would not violate §1028A(a)(1) if they had
permission to use a means of identification to commit a crime. See
Brief for United States 32 (“everyone is presumed to have
permission to use other people’s names” in certain ways
to facilitate crimes, such as addressing a letter); id., at
31–32 (a defendant can have “lawful authority” to
use a co-conspirator’s name to commit bank fraud). Other
times the Government has argued that no one ever has permission to
commit a crime. App. 32 (a person “can’t give someone
[else] permission” to use their name to facilitate a crime);
Tr. of Oral Arg. 91–92 (doctor would violate
§1028A(a)(1) even if patient granted permission to use his
name in the fraud). The Court need not, and does not, reach the
proper interpretation of “without lawful authority.”
Suffice it to say, these attempts to rein in §1028A(a)(1)
through another element of the statute show that the Government
itself understands the problems that arise from its sweeping
reading of “uses” and “in relation
to.”
9
 Even the Government had
trouble stomaching some of these results, offering inconsistent
accounts of certain examples. The Government claimed, for example,
that if “an applicant for a bank loan . . .
slightly inflates his salary while correctly identifying the
co-signer,” “the inclusion of the co-signer’s
name is not ‘in relation to’ the fraud.” Brief
for United States 31–32 (some internal quotation marks
omitted). This cannot be squared with the Government’s own
“facilitates” standard.
10  Adrift in a blizzard of its own
hypotheticals, the concurrence believes that it is too difficult to
discern when a means of identification is at the crux of the
underlying criminality. Post, at 4. The concurrence’s
bewilderment is not, fortunately, the standard for striking down an
Act of Congress as unconstitutionally vague. There will be close
cases, certainly, but that is commonplace in criminal law. Equally
commonplace are requirements that something play a specific role in
an offense, whether that role is articulated as a
“nexus,” Marinello v. United States, 584
U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 10), a
“locus,” Jones v. United States,
529 U.S.
848, 855–856 (2000), or “proximate cause,”
Robers v. United States, 572
U.S. 639, 645 (2014). Such requirements are not always simple
to apply. Yet resolving hard cases is part of the judicial job
description. Hastily resorting to vagueness doctrine, in contrast,
would hobble legislatures’ ability to draw nuanced lines to
address a complex world. Such an approach would also leave victims
of actual aggravated identity theft, a serious offense, without the
added protection of §1028A(a)(1).


