::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-179
::decision_name::  United States v. Hansen
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–179

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v. HELAMAN
HANSEN

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 23, 2023]

															

															Justice Thomas, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full. I
write separately to emphasize how far afield the facial overbreadth
doctrine has carried the Judiciary from its constitutional role.
The facial overbreadth doctrine “purports to grant federal
courts the power to invalidate a law” that is constitutional
as applied to the party before it “ ‘if a
substantial number of its applications are unconstitutional, judged
in relation to the statute’s plainly legitimate
sweep.’ ” Americans for Prosperity
Foundation v. Bonta, 594 U. S. ___, ___ (2021)
(Thomas, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment) (slip
op., at 2) (quoting United States v. Sineneng-Smith,
590 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op.,
at 1)). As I have explained, this doctrine “lacks any basis
in the text or history of the First Amendment, relaxes the
traditional standard for facial challenges,” and distorts the
judicial role. Id., at ___ (slip op., at 9).

															There is no question that the First Amendment
does not shield respondent’s scheme from prosecution under 8
U. S. C. §1324(a)(1)(A)(iv), which prohibits
“encourag[ing] or induc[ing] an alien to come to, enter, or
reside in the United States, knowing or in reckless disregard of
the fact that such coming to, entry, or residence is or will be in
violation of law.” Respondent defrauded nearly 500 aliens by
telling them that they could become U. S. citizens through
adult adoption; he charged them up to $10,000 apiece, knowing full
well that his scheme would not lead to citizenship. The Ninth
Circuit even acknowledged below that “it is clear,”
both “from previous convictions under the statute
. . . and likely from [respondent’s] conduct here,
that [§1324(a)(1)(A)(iv)] has at least some ‘plainly
legitimate sweep.’ ” 25 F. 4th 1103,
1106–1107 (2022).

															Yet, instead of applying Congress’ duly
enacted law to respondent, the Ninth Circuit held the statute
unconstitutional under this Court’s facial overbreadth
doctrine. Specifically, it took the doctrine as license to
“speculate about imaginary cases and sift through an endless
stream of fanciful hypotheticals,” from which it concluded
that the statute may be unconstitutional as applied to other
(hypothetical) individuals in other (hypothetical) situations. 40
F. 4th 1049, 1071 (2022) (Bumatay, J., dissenting from denial
of rehearing en banc) (internal quotation marks omitted). It then
tallied up those hypothetical constitutional violations and
determined that they were “substantial” enough to
warrant holding the law unconstitutional in toto. 25
F. 4th, at 1109–1111. That line of reasoning starkly
demonstrates that this Court’s facial overbreadth doctrine
offers a license for federal courts to act as “roving
commissions assigned to pass judgment on the validity of the
Nation’s laws.” Broadrick v. Oklahoma,
413 U.S.
601, 610–611 (1973) (majority opinion of White, J.).

															Such “roving commissions” are hardly
a new idea. When they met in 1787, the Constitution’s Framers
were well aware of a body that wielded such power: the New York
Council of Revision (Council). Created by the New York Constitution
of 1777, the Council consisted of the Governor, the Chancellor, and
the judges of the New York Supreme Court. 2 B. Poore, The Federal
and State Constitutions, Colonial Charters, and Other Organic Laws
of the United States 1328, 1332 (2d ed. 1878). Noting that
“laws inconsistent with the spirit of this constitution, or
with the public good, may be hastily and unadvisedly passed,”
section III of the New York Constitution required the two Houses of
the New York Legislature to present “all bills which have
passed the senate and assembly” to the “council for
their revisal and consideration.” Ibid. The
Council’s power “to revise legislation” meant
that, if it “objected to any measure of a bill, it would
return a detailed list of its objections to the legislature,”
which “could change the bill to conform to those objections,
override” them by a two-thirds vote of both Houses, “or
simply let the bill die.” J. Barry, Comment: The Council of
Revision and the Limits of Judicial Power, 56 U. Chi. L. Rev. 235,
245 (1989) (Barry) (emphasis deleted).[1] The grounds for the Council’s vetoes
“ranged from an act being ‘inconsistent with the spirit
of the Constitution’ to an act being passed without
‘the persons affected thereby having an opportunity of being
heard’ ” to an act being
“ ‘inconsistent with the public
good.’ ” Id., at 245–246 (alteration
and footnote omitted).

															At first, the Council was a well-respected
institution, and several prominent delegates to the Philadelphia
Convention sought to replicate it in the Federal Constitution.
Resolution 8 of the Virginia Plan proposed a federal council of
revision composed of “the Executive and a convenient number
of the National Judiciary” that would have “authority
to examine [and veto] every act of the National Legislature before
it shall operate.” 1 Records of the Federal Convention of
1787, §8, p. 21 (M. Farrand ed. 1911) (Farrand). The
Council’s veto would “be final . . . unless
the Act of the National Legislature be again passed.”
Ibid.; see also J. Malcolm, Whatever the Judges Say It Is?
The Founders and Judicial Review, 26 J. L. & Politics 1,
30–33 (2010).

															The proponents of a council were clear that they
sought to empower judges to pass upon not only the
constitutionality of laws, but also their policy. One of the
council’s main supporters, James Wilson, stated that the
council would share the New York Council’s power of reviewing
laws, not only on constitutional grounds, but also to determine if
they were “unjust,” “unwise,”
“dangerous,” or “destructive.” 2 Farrand
73. Such a power was needed, according to Wilson, because the
ordinary judicial power of refusing to apply unconstitutional laws
in cases or controversies did not include the authority to decline
to give effect to a law on policy grounds. Ibid. The other
leading proponent of a council, James Madison, similarly argued
that the council would veto “laws unwise in their principle,
or incorrect in their form.” 1 id., at 139. For
Madison, the council was necessary to remedy the defect caused by
the limits of judicial power: Judges could not prevent the
“pursuit of . . . unwise & unjust
measures.” 2 id., at 74. In that vein, George Mason
similarly argued that a council was needed to prevent “unjust
oppressive or pernicious” laws from taking effect.
Id., at 78.

															Significantly, proponents of a council rejected
the premise that judicial power included a power to refuse to apply
a law for policy reasons. In fact, “[n]either side thought
judges would or should be authorized to make policy—whether
couched in the language of justice or rights—through their
exercise of the judicial power. . . . [T]he debate over a
council of revision was made necessary . . . because
. . . not a single delegate on either side of the debate
proposed or supported having judges perform a policymaking role
from the bench.” J. Anderson, Learning From the Great Council
of Revision Debate, 68 Rev. Politics 79, 99–100 (2006). From
that shared premise, the council’s proponents argued that
such an institution was needed precisely because it would be
incompatible with judicial duty to take policy concerns into
account in adjudicating cases. See J. Mitchell, The Writ-of-Erasure
Fallacy, 104 Va. L. Rev. 933, 963 (2018).[2]

															Despite the support of respected delegates like
Wilson and Madison, the Convention voted against creating a federal
council of revision on four different occasions. P. Hamburger, Law
and Judicial Duty 511 (2008). No other proposal was considered and
rejected so many times. Ibid. Like the council’s
supporters, opponents of the proposal understood that the judicial
power is only the authority to “resolve private disputes
between particular parties,” rather than “matters
affecting the general public.” Barry 255. Working from that
shared premise, they reasoned that it was “ ‘quite
foreign from the nature of [the judicial] office to make them
judges of the policy of public measures,’ ” as
“ ‘no maxim was better established’ than
that ‘the power of making ought to be kept distinct from that
of expounding, the law.’ ” Ibid. (quoting 1
Farrand 97–98 (E. Gerry); 2 id., at 75 (C. Strong));
see also 1 id., at 140 (J. Dickinson). Indeed, opponents
observed that “the Judges” were “of all men the
most unfit to” have a veto on laws before their enactment. 2
id., at 80 (J. Rutledge). This was so not only because
judges could not be “presumed to possess any peculiar
knowledge of the mere policy of public measures,” id.,
at 73 (N. Ghorum), but also because, to preserve judicial
integrity, they “ought never to give their opinion on a law
till it comes before them” as an issue for decision in a
concrete case or controversy, id., at 80 (J. Rutledge); see
also Perez v. Mortgage Bankers Assn., 575 U.S. 92,
121 (2015) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (“[J]udicial
involvement in such a council would foster internal biases”).
Opponents thus concluded that to include judges in the policy
decisions inherent in the legislative process would be a
“dangerous innovation,” one that would erode public
confidence in their ability to perform their “proper official
character.” 2 Farrand 75–76 (L. Martin); see also
id., at 77 (“[T]he Supreme Judiciary should have the
confidence of the people. This will soon be lost, if they are
employed in the task of remonstrating ag[ainst] popular measures of
the Legislature”).

															The later history of the New York Council of
Revision demonstrates the wisdom of the Framers’ decision.
The Council naturally became politicized through its intrusive
involvement in the legislative process. Over the course of its
existence, it returned 169 bills to the legislature; the
legislature, in turn, overrode only 51 of those vetoes and
reenacted at least 26 bills with modifications. Barry 245.
Moreover, “[t]he Council did not shrink from tough stands on
controversial or politically charged issues.” Id., at
246. For example, early in its existence, it vetoed a bill barring
those convicted of adultery from remarrying and one that declared
Loyalists aliens. Ibid. Decades later, it very nearly
blocked the bill authorizing the Erie Canal’s construction
for policy reasons. P. Bernstein, Wedding of the Waters: The Erie
Canal and the Making of a Great Nation 197–199 (2005). Some
members of the Council opposed the bill due to “concern[s]
about committing the state to this huge project before public
opinion was more clearly and more emphatically in favor.”
Id., at 198. Others were concerned that the
legislation gave the canal commission arbitrary powers.
Ibid. The canal legislation—one of the most important
measures in the Nation’s history—survived the
Council’s review only because Chancellor James Kent changed
his deciding vote at the last minute, seemingly on a whim.
Id., at 199.

															The Council contributed to its own abolition in
1820, when it vetoed a bill passed by the legislature that called
for a convention to revise New York’s Constitution. 1 C.
Lincoln, The Constitutional History of New York 623–626
(1906) (Lincoln). The State Assembly then issued a report
lambasting “the Council for usurping the legislature’s
role as the democratic representative of the people”; the
legislature subsequently enacted a new bill that succeeded in
calling for a constitutional convention. Barry 247; Lincoln
626–629. The same sentiment arose at the convention when,
echoing arguments that had also been made in Philadelphia against a
federal council of revision, opponents of the Council argued that
it had “ ‘usurped the power of judging the
expediency as well as the constitutionality of bills passed
by the legislature’ ” and that it had “
‘in fact become a third branch of the legislature.’
” Barry 247 (quoting N. Carter & W. Stone, Reports of the
Proceedings and Debates of the Convention of 1821, pp. 55, 79
(1821)). Unsurprisingly, the Council was abolished, and New
York’s 1821 Constitution placed the veto power solely in the
Governor. Barry 248.

															When courts apply the facial overbreadth
doctrine, they function in a manner strikingly similar to the
federal council of revision that the Framers rejected. The doctrine
contemplates that courts can declare laws unconstitutional in the
abstract without the law ever being applied against any individual
in an unconstitutional manner. Along the way, courts must examine
the sum total of the law’s application to people who are not
parties to any proceeding; courts then weigh the law’s
various applications to determine if any unconstitutional
applications outweigh the law’s constitutional sweep or might
“chill” protected speech. That is nothing short of a
society-wide policy determination of the sort that legislatures
perform. Yet, the Court has never even attempted to ground this
doctrine “in the text or history of the First
Amendment.” Sineneng-Smith, 590 U. S., at
___–___ (concurring opinion) (slip op., at 2–3).
Instead, it has justified it “solely by reference to”
yet another layer of “policy considerations and value
judgments” about “what serves the public good.”
Id., at ___–___ (slip op., at 3–4). As the
debate over the federal council of revision demonstrates, this
approach is fundamentally inconsistent with judicial duty.

															This case demonstrates just how far courts have
drifted from their original station of adjudicating the rights of
the parties before them in accordance with law.[3] In an appropriate case, we should carefully
reconsider the facial overbreadth doctrine.

Notes
1
 The term
“revise” was understood to mean “[t]o
review.” 2 S. Johnson, A Dictionary of the English Language
(4th ed. 1773); N. Bailey, A Universal Etymological English
Dictionary (22 ed. 1770) (“to review, to look over
again”).
2
 Later statements of the
proposed council’s supporters confirm their understanding
that the judicial station is incompatible with making policy
judgments. See Moodie v. Ship Phoebe Anne, 3 Dall.
319 (1796) (Elsworth, C. J.) (“Suggestions of policy and
conveniency cannot be considered in the judicial determination of a
question of right”); 8 Writings of James Madison 387 (G. Hunt
ed. 1908) (“[Q]uestions of policy and expediency, are
unsusceptible of judicial cognizance and
decision”).
3
 The facial overbreadth
doctrine is but one manifestation of the Court’s larger drift
away from the limited judicial station envisioned by the
Constitution. See J. Malcolm, Whatever the Judges Say It Is? The
Founders and Judicial Review, 26 J. L. & Politics 1,
36–37 (2010). Justices have long noted that doctrines tasking
judges with passing upon the policy of laws in the abstract
resemble the council of revision the Framers rejected. See,
e.g., Lewis v. New Orleans, 415 U.S.
130, 136 (1974) (Blackmun, J., joined by Burger, C. J.,
and Rehnquist, J., dissenting) (overbreadth and vagueness
doctrines); see also Trimble v. Gordon, 430 U.S.
762, 778 (1977) (Rehnquist, J., dissenting) (suspect
classifications under the Fourteenth Amendment); Griswold v.
Connecticut, 381 U.S.
479, 513–515 (1965) (Black, J., joined by Stewart, J.,
dissenting) (substantive due process); Goldberg v.
Kelly, 397 U.S.
254, 273–274 (1970) (Black, J., dissenting) (due process
for welfare benefits); Saia v. New York, 334 U.S.
558, 571 (1948) (Jackson, J., dissenting) (review of time,
place, and manner speech regulations).


