::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-105
::decision_name::  Coinbase, Inc. v. Bielski
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Jackson
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–105

															_________________

															COINBASE, INC., PETITIONER v. ABRAHAM
BIELSKI

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 23, 2023]

															

															Justice Jackson, with whom Justice Sotomayor
and Justice Kagan join, and with whom Justice Thomas joins as to
Parts II, III, and IV, dissenting.

															When a federal court of appeals conducts
interlocutory review of a trial court order, the rest of the case
remains at the trial court level. Usually, the trial judge then
makes a particularized determination upon request, based on the
facts and circumstances of that case, as to whether the remaining
part of the case should continue unabated or be paused (stayed)
pending appeal. This discretionary decisionmaking promotes
procedural fairness because it allows for a balancing of all
relevant interests. See Nken v. Holder, 556 U.S.
418, 434 (2009).

															Today, the Court departs from this traditional
approach. It holds that, with respect to an interlocutory appeal of
a trial court order denying arbitration, a trial court must always
“stay its pre-trial and trial proceedings while the
interlocutory appeal is ongoing.” Ante, at 1. In other
words, in this context, the Court sees fit to impose a mandatory
general stay of trial court proceedings.

															This mandatory-general-stay rule for
interlocutory arbitrability appeals comes out of nowhere. No
statute imposes it. Nor does any decision of this Court. Yet
today’s majority invents a new stay rule perpetually favoring
one class of litigants—defendants seeking arbitration. Those
defendants will now receive a stay even when, according to the
usual equitable analysis, there is no good reason for one. And, in
reaching this result, the Court concludes for the first time that
an interlocutory appeal about one matter (arbitrability) bars the
district court from proceeding on another (the merits). That logic
has such significant implications for federal litigation that the
majority itself shies away from the Pandora’s box it may have
opened.

															I see no basis here for wresting away the
discretion traditionally entrusted to the judge closest to a case.
I respectfully dissent.

															I

															Congress did not impose the
mandatory-general-stay rule that the majority adopts today.

															Start with the governing statute. Congress
addressed the kind of interlocutory appeals at issue here in 9
U. S. C. §16—the section of the Federal
Arbitration Act it enacted to govern “Appeals.”
102Stat. 4671 (amending the Federal Arbitration Act, 9
U. S. C. §1 et seq.). Section 16 provides
that “[a]n appeal may be taken from” specified orders
and decisions, and “an appeal may not be taken from”
others. The appeals that §16 authorizes include interlocutory
appeals of orders denying requests for arbitration.
§§16(a)(1)(A)–(C).

															But nowhere did Congress provide that such an
interlocutory appeal automatically triggers a general stay of
pre-trial and trial proceedings. As the majority opinion admits,
§16 never even mentions a stay pending appeal. Ante, at
3.

															Even beyond that, related provisions confirm
that Congress imposed no mandatory general stay in §16
appeals. “Where Congress includes particular language in one
section of a statute but omits it in another section of the same
Act, it is generally presumed that Congress acts intentionally and
purposely in the disparate inclusion or exclusion.”
Nken, 556 U. S., at 430 (alterations and internal
quotation marks omitted). Congress did that here—twice.

															First, Congress expressly mandated a general
interlocutory stay in another provision of the same 1988 law that
enacted §16. See 102Stat. 4652, 4670–4671. Like
§16, that other provision—codified at 28
U. S. C. §1292(d)(4)—authorizes interlocutory
appeals. See §1292(d)(4)(A). But unlike §16, the text of
that other provision specifies that, upon an interlocutory appeal,
“proceedings shall be . . . stayed until the appeal
has been decided.” §1292(d)(4)(B). This resembles the
rule the majority adopts today for §16 appeals. Yet Congress
omitted it from §16, while simultaneously imposing it in
§1292(d)(4).

															Second, Congress expressly mandated a general
interlocutory stay in another provision of the Federal Arbitration
Act. Section 3 pertains to a circumstance in which the trial court
is “satisfied” that an issue should be referred to
arbitration. 9 U. S. C. §3. In such a case, the
statute expressly provides that the trial court “shall
on application of one of the parties stay the trial of the action
until such arbitration has been had.” Ibid. (emphasis
added). Again, the contrast with §16 is stark. Congress
specified a mandatory general stay of trial court proceedings in
§3 (when the trial court determines that arbitration is
warranted) but not §16(a) (when the court determines that
arbitration is unwarranted).

															The majority opinion waves away these
mandatory-general-stay provisions by jerry-rigging explanations for
why Congress mandated those stays expressly without doing so in
§16. Ante, at 8–9. But the point remains:
Congress focused on stays when crafting the 1988 law and the
Federal Arbitration Act. And when it intended to mandate
interlocutory stays, it said so expressly. Nothing stopped Congress
from doing so in §16—yet it chose not to. This
underscores that §16 does not mandate a stay.[1]

															Given all this, it is no surprise that
Congress’s enactments barely figure into the majority
opinion. The mandatory-general-stay rule is so untethered from
§16 that the statutory text has no role in the Court’s
reasoning.

															And when Congress’s work finally does take
the stage near the end of the Court’s analysis, it plays a
minor part. See ante, at 6–7. The Court notes that
other statutes expressly provide that appeals do not
automatically stay district court proceedings. Ante, at 7,
and n. 6. From this, the Court tries to draw an across-the-board
inference that, unless Congress expressly disavows the
majority’s mandatory-general-stay rule, that rule
applies.

															The Court’s inference fails. The statutes
that the majority points to have nothing to do with arbitration or
§16 (unlike the two provisions discussed above, which were
enacted in the same 1988 law as §16 and codified alongside
§16 in the Federal Arbitration Act, respectively,
supra, at 3).

															Moreover, and in any event, the majority’s
cited statutes do not support the majority’s
mandatory-general-stay rule. The majority invokes statutes that
expressly preclude automatic stays of all trial court
proceedings. But if the majority is correct that Congress intended
the opposite when a statute is silent, then stays of all
trial court proceedings would be required. Yet, the
majority’s own holding does not go that far. See ante,
at 4, n. 2. Instead, the majority requires stays for some
proceedings (those related to the merits) but not others (those
related to costs and fees), ibid.—a line that appears
nowhere in the majority’s cited statutes.

															At the end of the day, the best the majority can
do is point to a smattering of provisions that do not
contain the rule that the majority adopts. And those provisions do
not even relate to §16 or the majority’s rule (staying
litigation generally but not proceedings on costs and fees).
Neither those statutes, nor any other, imposes on arbitrability
appeals the stay rule that the Court announces.

															II

															Unable to locate its rule in a statute, the
majority opinion pivots to “background principle[s].”
Ante, at 3. But there is no background
mandatory-general-stay rule.

															To the contrary, the background rule is that
courts have case-by-case discretion regarding whether or not to
issue a stay. “[T]he power to stay proceedings is incidental
to the power inherent in every court to control the disposition of
the causes on its docket.” Landis v. North American
Co., 299 U.S.
248, 254 (1936). That power is discretionary—it
“calls for the exercise of judgment, which must weigh
competing interests” in each particular case. Id., at
254–255. One key to this discretionary-stay tradition is its
“suppleness of adaptation to varying conditions.”
Id., at 256. A stay “is not a matter of right”
and cannot be imposed “reflexively.” Nken, 556
U. S., at 427 (internal quotation marks omitted).

															That has long been the default rule. A
court’s discretion “to grant a stay pending
review” is “firmly imbedded in our judicial system,
consonant with the historic procedures of federal appellate
courts.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). It
is “a power as old as the judicial system of the
nation.” Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted); see
28 U. S. C. §1651(a) (All Writs Act, originally
enacted in 1789, 1Stat. 81–82).

															Significantly for present purposes,
discretionary stays are the default for interlocutory appeals in
particular—and this dates back to the first federal
interlocutory-appeal statute in 1891. Judiciary Act of 1891,
§7, 26Stat. 828; see 15A C. Wright, A. Miller, & E.
Cooper, Federal Practice and Procedure §3906, p. 346 (3d ed.
2022). There, Congress established that “proceedings
. . . in the court below shall not be stayed
unless otherwise ordered by that court during the pendency of
such appeal.” §7, 26Stat. 828 (emphasis added).

															That statute cemented a background
discretionary-stay rule that governed even where Congress was
silent—as this Court has repeatedly recognized. Shortly after
the 1891 Act, a case arose under conditions in which the Act was
silent about whether a stay should issue. In re Haberman Mfg.
Co., 147 U.S.
525, 530 (1893) (finding “no express provision” on
point). This Court applied the background rule: “[T]he
Circuit Court had a discretion to grant or refuse” a stay.
Ibid. Another case of statutory silence arose a few years
later. In re McKenzie, 180 U.S.
536, 550–551 (1901). Again, this Court reiterated federal
courts’ “inherent power . . . to stay or
supersede proceedings on appeal” from an interlocutory order.
Id., at 551. As this Court summarized in yet another case,
the rule is that the trial court has “authority” during
an interlocutory appeal “to take further proceedings in the
cause, unless in its discretion it orders them to be stayed,
pending the appeal.” Smith v. Vulcan Iron
Works, 165 U.S.
518, 525 (1897). That authority is “recognized” by
the 1891 Act but existed already as a traditional matter,
“often exercised by other courts of chancery.”
Ibid.
This was the background against which
Congress enacted §16. And—importantly—courts
understood stays as discretionary with respect to interlocutory
appeals concerning arbitrability. Before Congress enacted §16,
parties brought interlocutory arbitrability appeals under other
sources of appellate jurisdiction, and courts treated stays as
discretionary, not mandatory.[2] Yet, according to the majority, Congress sought to
displace that common understanding when it enacted
§16—without saying anything at all about stays pending
appeal.

															Even setting all that aside, the majority
opinion’s reliance on a “background” rule,
ante, at 3, still fails. The majority has not shown that its
own rule (the mandatory-general-stay rule) existed as a
background matter when Congress enacted §16 in 1988. Indeed,
the majority opinion does not identify a single case in
which this Court imposed a mandatory general stay of pre-trial and
trial proceedings pending an interlocutory appeal. Not in an
arbitration case. Not in an analogous case about the proper
adjudicatory forum for a dispute. Not in any interlocutory appeal
at all.

															III

															Because neither the statute nor any background
law states that an interlocutory appeal over arbitrability triggers
a mandatory general stay of trial court proceedings, the majority
opinion resorts to spinning such a rule from a single sentence in
Griggs v. Provident Consumer Discount Co., 459 U.S.
56 (1982) (per curiam). But Griggs expresses a
far narrower principle, and is thus insufficient to support the
majority’s mandatory-general-stay rule.

															Griggs stands for a modest proposition:
Two courts should avoid exercising control over the same order or
judgment simultaneously. The problem Griggs identifies is
the “danger a district court and a court of appeals would be
simultaneously analyzing the same judgment.” Id., at
59. The cure Griggs prescribes is that “[t]he filing
of a notice of appeal . . . divests the district
court of its control over those aspects of the case involved in the
appeal.” Id., at 58.

															And the reason is simple. Two courts
simultaneously analyzing the same judgment could step on each
other’s toes. It would interfere with the appellate
court’s review of an order if the district court modified
that order mid-appeal. Instead, an order should be reviewed by one
court at a time.

															This notion of “one order, one reviewing
court” is all that was at issue in Griggs.
Griggs concerned a party that tried to appeal a judgment
while the District Court was still considering whether to alter
that same judgment. Id., at 56. The Court held that the
appeal needed to wait until after the District Court’s work
on that judgment was done. Id., at 60–61. This result,
which followed from the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure, was
necessary to “avoi[d]” the situation “in which
district courts and courts of appeals would both have had the power
to modify the same judgment.” Id., at 60
(emphasis added).

															Properly understood and applied here,
Griggs divests the district court of control over only a
narrow slice of the case. The interlocutory appeal addresses an
order declining to compel arbitration. Griggs merely
prevents the district court from modifying that
order—i.e., Griggs prevents the district judge
from revisiting whether to compel arbitration while the appeal is
pending. Griggs does not stop the district court from
proceeding on matters other than arbitrability.

															The majority opinion, however, transmogrifies
Griggs into a sweeping stay of “pre-trial and trial
proceedings” on not just arbitrability, but also the merits.
Ante, at 1. According to the majority, if the question on
appeal is “whether the litigation may go forward in the
district court,” then the district court loses control over
“the entire case.” Ante, at 3–4
(emphasis added; internal quotation marks omitted).

															That rule far surpasses the statement in
Griggs—the sole statement on which the majority
relies—that a district court loses “control over those
aspects of the case involved in the appeal.” 459 U. S.,
at 58; ante, at 3. Only the arbitrability order is on
appeal, not the merits. And those matters are distinct. As this
Court recognized (before Congress enacted §16),
“arbitrability” is “easily severable from the
merits of the underlying disputes.” Moses H. Cone Memorial
Hospital v. Mercury Constr. Corp., 460 U.S.
1, 21 (1983).

															The majority cannot justify why it treats these
“easily severable” matters as intertwined in an
arbitrability appeal. “[T]he question on appeal,” as
the majority opinion correctly identifies, is “whether the
case belongs in arbitration.” Ante, at 3. But the
questions remaining before the district court are different:
whether the claims have merit, whether the parties are entitled to
the discovery they seek, and so on. Proceedings on those questions
would not interfere with the appellate court’s review of the
arbitrability order. Those proceedings, in other words, do not
implicate the Griggs principle, which addresses the
“danger a district court and a court of appeals would be
simultaneously analyzing the same judgment.” 459 U. S.,
at 59.

															The Court today expands Griggs beyond
what the Congress that enacted §16 could have foreseen, let
alone silently incorporated. Indeed, the majority can identify no
other time this Court wielded Griggs to mandate a stay of
all merits proceedings just because a distinct procedural question
was on appeal.

															In fact, the majority’s supercharged
version of Griggs contradicts its own account of
Congress’s intent. Consider the statutes that the majority
points to as models of how Congress would reject a
mandatory-general-stay rule. Ante, at 6–7, and
n. 6; see supra, at 4–5. Under those statutes,
the majority says, Congress intends that an interlocutory appeal
does “not . . . automatically stay district
court proceedings.” Ante, at 7. Yet, the majority also
seemingly accepts that under those statutes, “the
Griggs principle applies.” Ante, at 5. And per
“the Griggs principle” as the majority sees it,
in some cases an interlocutory appeal does automatically
stay district court proceedings. Ante, at 3–4. So a
mandatory general stay is thus both prohibited (by the statutory
text) and required (by the majority’s view of
Griggs).[3] As this
contradiction underscores, the majority’s holding is
untethered from any statute and any existing conception of
Griggs.

															IV

															To justify its new mandatory-general-stay
rule, the majority ultimately rests on its assessment of what is
“sensible.” Ante, at 5–6. But even the
majority’s policy concerns do not support its rule.

															The dispute here turns on a subset of
cases—those in which a stay is not warranted under the usual
discretionary standard. See Nken, 556 U. S., at 434.
All agree that an interlocutory appeal should trigger a stay if
that standard is met. But the majority goes further and requires a
stay in all cases. Indeed, the majority mandates a stay even
if none of the traditional stay prerequisites are present:
likelihood of success on the merits, irreparable harm, favorable
balance of equities, and alignment with the public interest. See
ibid.

															The majority offers no good reason for that
result. The majority says that an automatic stay protects the party
seeking arbitration and conserves resources in case the dispute
“ultimately head[s] to arbitration” after appeal.
Ante, at 6. But the concern fades if that scenario is
unrealistic—i.e., if the party seeking arbitration is
unlikely to succeed on appeal.

															The majority’s concern is even weaker when
a stay would harm the opposing party and the public interest much
more than it would protect the party seeking arbitration. Take, for
example, a case in which crucial evidence would be lost if
discovery is delayed. Say a witness is on her deathbed. Under the
majority’s rule, if an interlocutory arbitrability appeal
under §16(a) is pending, discovery must be stayed and the
evidence must be lost. That is apparently so even if the parties
agree they wish to proceed with discovery.

															The majority’s rule also prevents courts
from crafting case-specific solutions to balance all the interests
at stake. Under the traditional discretionary-stay rule, for
instance, a judge could allow the parties to conduct only the forms
of discovery that would also be permitted in arbitration. That
would save time and leave nobody worse off even if, as the majority
fears, the dispute ultimately heads to arbitration. But this kind
of equitable resolution, which the court and the parties might
consider “sensible,” ante, at 6, is forbidden
under the majority’s mandatory-general-stay rule.

															In addition, for each of the majority’s
concerns favoring a mandatory stay, there are countervailing
considerations. The majority professes interest in
“efficiency.” Ibid. But forcing district court
proceedings to a halt—for months or years while the appeal
runs its course—is itself inefficient. The majority also
fears losing other “asserted benefits of arbitration”
without a stay. Ibid. But with a stay, the party
opposing arbitration loses the benefits of immediate litigation. A
plaintiff’s request for injunctive protection against
imminent harm, for example, goes unanswered under the
majority’s rule. Similarly, while the majority laments
settlement pressure on parties seeking arbitration, ibid.,
the rule it announces imposes settlement pressure in the opposite
direction. With justice delayed while the case is on hold, parties
“could be forced to settle,” ibid., because they
do not wish—or cannot afford—to leave their claims in
limbo. Incongruously, the majority inflicts these burdens on the
party that won the arbitrability issue before the district
court (the party opposing arbitration).

															In categorically resolving these conflicts in
favor of the pro-arbitration party, the majority’s analysis
comes down to this: Because the pro-arbitration party gets an
interlocutory appeal, it should also get an automatic stay.
Ibid.; see L. Numeroff, If You Give a Mouse a Cookie (1985).
But Congress was entitled to give one without the other. And the
right to interlocutory appeal is valuable on its own. It is, as the
majority explains, “a rare statutory exception to the usual
rule that parties may not appeal before final judgment.”
Ante, at 3. Even without a stay, if the interlocutory appeal
succeeds, the pro-arbitration party gets its wish and the dispute
goes to arbitration.

															Perhaps for those reasons, real-life parties do
not agree with the majority that an interlocutory arbitrability
appeal is pointless without an automatic stay. No stay was issued
in this case, for example, yet Coinbase still pursued its
interlocutory appeal. Nor did other parties stop bringing
interlocutory arbitrability appeals in the Circuits that had
interpreted §16 to impose no automatic stay.[4]

															Yet this Court steps in to give the
pro-arbitration party the additional right to an automatic stay
that Congress withheld. Now, any defendant that devises a
non-frivolous argument for arbitration can not only appeal, but
also press pause on the case—leaving plaintiffs to suffer
harm, lose evidence, and bleed dry their patience and funding in
the meantime. To confer that power on a class of litigants, based
on blanket judgments resolving competing policy concerns, is
Congress’s domain, not ours. And where Congress is silent,
the job of managing particular litigation, in light of the concrete
circumstances presented, belongs to the judge closest to a
case.

															V

															The Court today ventures down an uncharted
path—and that way lies madness. Never before had this Court
mandated a general stay simply because an interlocutory appeal
poses the question “whether the litigation may go forward in
the district court.” Ante, at 3 (internal quotation
marks omitted). And a wide array of appeals seemingly fits that
bill.

															Indeed, any appeal over the proper forum for a
dispute would arguably raise the same question. After all,
“an arbitration agreement is ‘a specialized kind of
forum-selection clause.’ ” Viking River
Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana, 596 U. S. ___, ___ (2022)
(slip op., at 11) (quoting Scherk v. Alberto-Culver
Co., 417 U.S.
506, 519 (1974)). If arbitration appeals require stays of all
pre-trial and trial proceedings, why not all appeals about
forum-selection agreements? And why not appeals over
non-contractual disputes over the proper adjudicator, like venue,
personal jurisdiction, forum non conveniens, federal-court
jurisdiction, and abstention?

															For that matter, “virtually every right
that could be enforced appropriately by pretrial dismissal might
loosely be described as conferring a ‘right not to stand
trial.’ ” Digital Equipment Corp. v.
Desktop Direct, Inc., 511 U.S.
863, 873 (1994). “Such motions can be made in virtually
every case.” Ibid. Does every interlocutory
appeal concerning a case-dispositive issue now trigger a mandatory
general stay of trial court proceedings?

															Taken that broadly, the mandatory-general-stay
rule the Court adopts today would upend federal litigation as we
know it. Aware that any interlocutory appeal on a dispositive issue
grinds the plaintiff’s case to a halt, defendants would
presumably pursue that tactic at every opportunity. This would
occur, for example, in interlocutory appeals available as of right
under 28 U. S. C. §1292(a)(1) from orders granting
preliminary injunctions. Any defense lawyer worth her salt would
invoke the right to take that appeal and throw up some
objection—to venue, jurisdiction, or a dispositive element of
the merits—to trigger a mandatory stay. For plaintiffs, then,
every preliminary-injunction motion becomes a trap: Even if the
motion is granted, the defendant can take that opportunity to stop
the trial court proceedings in their tracks.

															Facing these destabilizing consequences, the
majority stops short of following its own reasoning to that ominous
conclusion. Today’s holding reaches only arbitration appeals
under §16(a). Ante, at 1, 7. And it might well be that
the concerns motivating today’s mandatory-general-stay rule
do not extend beyond arbitration. So the majority will not commit,
for example, to concluding that appeals over non-arbitration
forum-selection clauses warrant the same mandatory stay.
Ante, at 9.

															I agree with that hesitation—even one step
further down this path is much too far. The mandatory-general-stay
rule that the Court manufactures is unmoored from Congress’s
commands and this Court’s precedent. And the windfall that
the Court gives to defendants seeking arbitration, preferencing
their interests over all others, is entirely unwarranted. The Court
now mandates that result no matter how unjust that outcome is,
according to traditional equitable standards, in a given case. This
endeavor is unfounded, unwise, and—most
fundamentally—not our role.

Notes
1
 The majority’s
explanation for why Congress mandated a stay in 28
U. S. C. §1292(d)(4) also makes no sense. According
to the majority, Congress usually remains silent when it intends to
mandate a stay. Ante, at 6–7, 8–9. Congress
expressly imposed a mandatory stay in §1292(d)(4), the
majority says, only because a pre-existing provision,
§1292(d)(3), would otherwise have made stays in
§1292(d)(4) appeals discretionary. Ante, at 8–9.
But that last point holds no water. Paragraph (3) has no bearing on
paragraph (4), because these two provisions govern different kinds
of appeals. Specifically, paragraph (3) governs certain appeals
by permission, while paragraph (4) governs a separate set of
appeals as of right. Paragraph (3) addresses events unique
to permissive appeals: “Neither the application for
nor the granting of an appeal” stays trial court
proceedings. §1292(d)(3) (emphasis added). Paragraph (3) thus
corresponds to paragraphs (1) and (2), which authorize permissive
appeals “if application is made” and granted.
§§1292(d)(1)–(2). Meanwhile, paragraph (4)
separately authorizes certain as-of-right appeals,
§1292(d)(4)(A), and it imposes mandatory stays in such
appeals, §1292(d)(4)(B). In an appeal as of right under
paragraph (4), paragraph (3) never kicks in, because there is no
“application for” or “granting of ” an
appeal, §1292(d)(3). Thus, the majority’s
story—that Congress needed express stay language to avoid
overlap with paragraph (3)—turns on a red herring. There is
no such overlap. Instead, only the more straightforward explanation
remains: Congress imposed a mandatory general stay in
§1292(d)(4)—but not 9 U. S. C.
§16—because it intended such a stay under the former but
not the latter.
2
 See, e.g.,
Pearce v. E. F. Hutton Group, Inc., 828 F.2d 826, 829
(CADC 1987); Maxum Foundations, Inc. v. Salus Corp.,
779 F.2d 974, 977 (CA4 1985); Matterhorn, Inc. v. NCR
Corp., 727 F.2d 629, 630 (CA7 1984); Lummus Co. v.
Commonwealth Oil Refining Co., 273 F.2d 613, 613–614
(CA1 1959) (per curiam); Bernhardt v.
Polygraphic Co. of Am., 235 F.2d 209, 211 (CA2 1956)
(per curiam).
3
 This contradiction
arises, for example, under 28 U. S. C. §1292(b), one
of the statutes that the majority cites as prohibiting mandatory
general stays. See ante, at 7, n. 6 (citing Act of Sept. 2,
1958, Pub. L. 85–919, 72Stat. 1770 (codified at
§1292(b))). Section 1292(b) authorizes permissive
interlocutory appeals from a wide range of orders involving
“controlling question[s] of law”—including
rulings on arbitrability. Arbitrability appeals under §1292(b)
were commonplace when Congress enacted 9 U. S. C.
§16 in 1988. See, e.g., Danford v.
Schwabacher, 488 F.2d 454, 457 (CA9 1973) (“Since 1958
interlocutory arbitration orders have been reviewable in accordance
with the procedures prescribed by 28 U. S. C.
§1292(b)”). And in a §1292(b) arbitrability appeal,
the majority’s reading of §1292(b) would prohibit a
mandatory general stay, while the majority’s view of
Griggs would require one.
4
 For over a decade, the
Second, Fifth, and Ninth Circuits have all held that a §16(a)
appeal triggers no mandatory general stay. Motorola Credit
Corp. v. Uzan, 
388 F.3d 39, 53–54 (CA2 2004); Britton v. Co-op
Banking Group, 916 F.2d 1405, 1412 (CA9 1990); Weingarten
Realty Investors v. Miller, 661 F.3d 904, 907–910
(CA5 2011). And those Circuits face no shortage of interlocutory
§16(a) appeals. See, e.g., Palacios v.
Alifine Dining, Inc., 2023 WL 2469765 (CA2, Mar. 13, 2023);
Laurel v. Cintas Corp., 2023 WL 2363686 (CA9, Mar. 6,
2023); NATS, Inc. v. Radiation Shield Technologies,
Inc., 2023 WL 2416160 (CA2, Mar. 9, 2023); Hill v.
Xerox Bus. Servs., LLC, 59 F. 4th 457 (CA9 2023);
Johnson v. Walmart Inc., 57 F. 4th 677 (CA9 2023);
Noble Capital Fund Mgmt., LLC v. US Capital Global Inv.
Mgmt., LLC, 31 F. 4th 333 (CA5 2022); Forby v. One
Technologies, LP, 13 F. 4th 460 (CA5 2021); Soliman v.
Subway Franchisee Adv. Fund Trust, Ltd., 999 F.3d 828 (CA2
2021); Polyflow, LLC v. Specialty RTP, LLC, 993 F.3d
295 (CA5 2021).


