::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-227
::decision_name::  Lac du Flambeau Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Indians v. Coughlin
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Jackson
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–227

															_________________

															LAC du FLAMBEAU BAND OF LAKE SUPERIOR CHIPPEWA
INDIANS, et al., PETITIONERS v. BRIAN W. COUGHLIN

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the first circuit

															[June 15, 2023]

															

															Justice Jackson delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															The Bankruptcy Code expressly abrogates the
sovereign immunity of “governmental unit[s]” for
specified purposes. 11 U. S. C. §106(a). The
question presented in this case is whether that express abrogation
extends to federally recognized Indian tribes. Under our
precedents, we will not find an abrogation of tribal sovereign
immunity unless Congress has conveyed its intent to abrogate in
unequivocal terms. That is a high bar. But for the reasons
explained below, we find it has been satisfied here.

															I

															Petitioner Lac du Flambeau Band of Lake
Superior Chippewa Indians (the Band) is a federally recognized
Tribe that wholly owns several business entities. In 2019, one of
the Band’s businesses, Lendgreen, allowed respondent Brian
Coughlin to borrow $1,100 in the form of a high-interest,
short-term loan. But Coughlin filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy
before he fully repaid the loan.

															Under the Bankruptcy Code, Coughlin’s
filing of the bankruptcy petition triggered an automatic stay
against further collection efforts by creditors, including
Lendgreen. See §362(a). Yet, according to Coughlin, Lendgreen
continued its efforts to collect on his debt, even after it was
reminded of the pending bankruptcy petition. Coughlin alleges that
Lendgreen was so aggressive in its efforts to contact him and
collect the money that he suffered substantial emotional distress,
and at one point, even attempted to take his own life.

															Coughlin eventually filed a motion in Bankruptcy
Court, seeking to have the stay enforced against Lendgreen, its
parent corporations, and the Band (collectively, petitioners).
Coughlin also sought damages for emotional distress, along with
costs and attorney’s fees. See §362(k) (providing a
damages award to individuals injured by willful violations of the
automatic stay).

															Petitioners moved to dismiss. They argued that
the Bankruptcy Court lacked subject-matter jurisdiction over
Coughlin’s enforcement proceeding, as the Band and its
subsidiaries enjoyed tribal sovereign immunity from suit.[1] The Bankruptcy Court agreed; it held
that the suit had to be dismissed because the Bankruptcy Code did
not clearly express Congress’s intent to abrogate tribal
sovereign immunity.

															In a divided opinion, the Court of Appeals for
the First Circuit reversed, concluding that the Bankruptcy Code
“unequivocally strips tribes of their immunity.”
In re Coughlin, 33 F. 4th 600, 603–604
(2022). In so holding, the First Circuit deepened a split among the
Courts of Appeals on this question. Compare Krystal Energy
Co. v. Navajo Nation, 
357 F.3d 1055, 
1061 (CA9 2004) (holding that the Bankruptcy Code abrogates
tribal sovereign immunity), with In re Greektown Holdings,
LLC, 917 F.3d 451, 460–461 (CA6 2019) (concluding the
reverse). We granted certiorari to address the lower courts’
inconsistent holdings. 598 U. S. ___ (2023).

															II

															A

															Two provisions of the Bankruptcy Code lie at
the crux of this case. The first— 11 U. S. C.
§106(a)—abrogates the sovereign immunity of
“governmental unit[s].” It provides:
“Notwithstanding an assertion of sovereign immunity,
sovereign immunity is abrogated as to a governmental unit to the
extent set forth in this section.” Section 106(a) goes on to
enumerate a list of Code provisions to which the abrogation
applies, including the provision governing automatic stays.

															The second relevant provision is §101(27).
That provision defines “governmental unit” for purposes
of the Code. It states that that term

															“means United States; State;
Commonwealth; District; Territory; municipality; foreign state;
department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States (but
not a United States trustee while serving as a trustee in a case
under this title), a State, a Commonwealth, a District, a
Territory, a municipality, or a foreign state; or other foreign or
domestic government.”

															The central question before us is whether the
abrogation provision in §106(a) and the definition of
“governmental unit” in §101(27), taken together,
unambiguously abrogate the sovereign immunity of federally
recognized tribes.

															B

															To “abrogate sovereign immunity,”
Congress “must make its intent . . .
‘unmistakably clear in the language of the
statute.’ ” Financial Oversight and Management
Bd. for P. R. v. Centro De Periodismo Investigativo,
Inc., 598 U. S. ___, ___ (2023) (slip op., at 6). This
well-settled rule applies to federally recognized tribes no less
than other defendants with sovereign immunity. Ibid. We have
held that tribes possess the “common-law immunity from suit
traditionally enjoyed by sovereign powers.” Santa Clara
Pueblo v. Martinez, 436 U.S.
49, 58 (1978). Our cases have thus repeatedly emphasized that
tribal sovereign immunity, absent a clear statement of
congressional intent to the contrary, is the “baseline
position.” Michigan v. Bay Mills Indian
Community, 572 U.S.
782, 790 (2014).

															This clear-statement rule is a demanding
standard. If “there is a plausible interpretation of the
statute” that preserves sovereign immunity, Congress has not
unambiguously expressed the requisite intent. FAA v.
Cooper, 566 U.S.
284, 290 (2012); accord, United States v. Nordic
Village, Inc., 503 U.S.
30, 37 (1992).

															The rule is not a magic-words requirement,
however. To abrogate sovereign immunity unambiguously,
“Congress need not state its intent in any particular
way.” Cooper, 566 U. S., at 291. Nor need
Congress “make its clear statement in a single [statutory]
section.” Kimel v. Florida Bd. of Regents,
528 U.S.
62, 76 (2000). The clear-statement question is simply whether,
upon applying “traditional” tools of statutory
interpretation, Congress’s abrogation of tribal sovereign
immunity is “clearly discernable” from the statute
itself. Cooper, 566 U. S., at 291.

															III

															We conclude that the Bankruptcy Code
unequivocally abrogates the sovereign immunity of any and every
government that possesses the power to assert such immunity.
Federally recognized tribes undeniably fit that description;
therefore, the Code’s abrogation provision plainly applies to
them as well.

															A

															Several features of the provisions’ text
and structure compel this conclusion.

															As an initial matter, the definition of
“governmental unit” exudes comprehensiveness from
beginning to end. Congress has rattled off a long list of
governments that vary in geographic location, size, and nature.
§101(27) (including municipalities, districts, Territories,
Commonwealths, States, the United States, and foreign states). The
provision then proceeds to capture subdivisions and components of
every government within that list. Ibid. (accounting for any
“department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States
. . . , a State, a Commonwealth, a District, a Territory,
a municipality, or a foreign state”). And it concludes with a
broad catchall phrase, sweeping in “other foreign or domestic
government[s].” Ibid.

															When faced with analogously structured
provisions in other contexts, we have noted their all-encompassing
scope. See, e.g., Taylor v. United States, 579
U.S. 301, 305–306 (2016) (characterizing as
“unmistakably broad” a criminal statute defining
“commerce” to include a list of specific instances in
which the Federal Government would have jurisdiction, followed by a
broad residual phrase); see also Marietta Memorial Hospital
Employee Health Benefit Plan v. DaVita Inc., 596
U. S. ___, ___, n. 1 (2022) (slip op., at 4, n. 1)
(similar). We find the strikingly broad scope of
§101(27)’s definition of “governmental unit”
to be significant in this context as well.

															The catchall phrase Congress used in
§101(27) is also notable in and of itself. Few phrases in the
English language express all-inclusiveness more than the pairing of
two extremes. “Rain or shine” is a classic example: If
an event is scheduled to occur rain or shine, it will take place
whatever the weather that day might be. Same with the phrase
“near and far”: If people are traveling from near and
far, they are coming from all over the map, regardless of the
particular distance from point A to point B.

															The pairing of “foreign” with
“domestic” is of a piece with those other common
expressions. For instance, if someone asks you to identify car
manufacturers, “foreign or domestic,” your task is to
name any and all manufacturers that come to mind, without
particular regard to where exactly the cars are made or the
location of the companies’ headquarters. Similarly, at the
start of each Congress, a cadre of newly elected officials
“ ‘solemnly swear’ ” to
“ ‘support and defend the Constitution of the
United States against all enemies, foreign and
domestic.’ ” 5 U. S. C. §3331. That
oath—which each Member of Congress who enacted the Bankruptcy
Code took—indisputably pertains to enemies anywhere in the
world. Accordingly, we find that, by coupling foreign and domestic
together, and placing the pair at the end of an extensive list,
Congress unmistakably intended to cover all governments in
§101(27)’s definition, whatever their location, nature,
or type.

															It is also significant that the abrogation of
sovereign immunity in §106(a) plainly applies to all
“governmental unit[s]” as defined by §101(27).
Congress did not cherry-pick certain governments from
§101(27)’s capacious list and only abrogate immunity
with respect to those it had so selected. Nor did Congress suggest
that, for purposes of §106(a)’s abrogation of sovereign
immunity, some types of governments should be treated
differently than others. Instead, Congress categorically abrogated
the sovereign immunity of any governmental unit that might
attempt to assert it.

															B

															Other aspects of the Bankruptcy Code reinforce
what §106(a)’s and §101(27)’s plain text
conveys.

															Through various provisions, the Bankruptcy Code
offers debtors a fresh start by discharging and restructuring their
debts in an “orderly and centralized” fashion. See,
e.g., 1 Collier on Bankruptcy ¶1.01 (16th ed. 2023);
Lamar, Archer & Cofrin, LLP v. Appling, 584
U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 4). The automatic-stay
requirement, for example, keeps creditors from
“dismember[ing]” the estate while the bankruptcy case
proceeds. Chicago v. Fulton, 592 U. S. ___, ___
(2021) (slip op., at 2); 11 U. S. C. §362. The
Code’s discharge provision enjoins creditors from trying to
collect debts that have been discharged in a bankruptcy case.
§524(a). And its plan-confirmation provisions, as relevant
here, “bind . . . each creditor” to whatever
repayment plan the bankruptcy court approves, “whether or not
the claim of such creditor is provided for by the plan, and whether
or not such creditor has objected to, has accepted, or has rejected
the plan.” §1327(a); see also, e.g.,
§§1141(a), 1227(a).

															These protections sweep broadly, by their own
terms. To facilitate the Code’s “orderly and
centralized” debt- resolution process, Collier on Bankruptcy
¶1.01, these provisions’ basic requirements generally
apply to all creditors.[2] Courts can also enforce these requirements against any
kind of noncompliant creditor—whether or not the creditor is
a “governmental unit”—by virtue of
§106(a)’s abrogation of sovereign immunity.
§§106(a)(1)–(3).

															At the same time, so as to avoid impeding the
functioning of governmental entities when they act as creditors,
the Code contains a number of limited exceptions. For instance, the
automatic-stay requirement does not preclude “governmental
unit[s]” from enforcing their “police and regulatory
power[s]” in certain proceedings, §362(b)(4), or from
pursuing specific tax-related activities, §§362(b)(9),
(18), (26). The Code additionally exempts from discharge certain
debts for a “fine, penalty, or forfeiture” owed to a
“governmental unit.” §523(a)(7).

															Reading the statute to carve out a subset of
governments from the definition of “governmental unit,”
as petitioners’ view of the statute would require, risks
upending the policy choices that the Code embodies in this regard.
That is, despite the fact that the Code generally subjects all
creditors (including governmental units) to certain overarching
requirements, under petitioners’ reading, some government
creditors would be immune from key enforcement proceedings while
others would face penalties for their noncompliance. And while the
Code is finely tuned to accommodate essential governmental
functions (like tax administration and regulation) as a general
matter, petitioners would have us find that certain governments are
excluded from those provisions’ reach, notwithstanding the
fact that they engage in tax and regulatory activities too. There
is no indication that Congress meant to categorically exclude
certain governments from these provisions’ enforcement
mechanisms and exceptions, let alone in such an anomalous manner.
Cf. Law v. Siegel, 571 U.S.
415, 424 (2014) (declining to read into the Code an exception
Congress did not include in its “meticulous” and
“carefully calibrated” scheme).

															C

															Our conclusion that all government creditors
are subject to abrogation under §106(a) brings one remaining
question to the fore—whether federally recognized tribes
qualify as governments. Petitioners do not seriously dispute that
federally recognized tribes are governments, and for good reason.
Federally recognized tribes exercise uniquely governmental
functions: “They have power to make their own substantive law
in internal matters, and to enforce that law in their own
forums.” Santa Clara Pueblo, 436 U. S., at
55–56 (citations omitted). They can also “tax
activities on the reservation.” Plains Commerce Bank
v. Long Family Land & Cattle Co., 554 U.S.
316, 327 (2008).

															It is thus no surprise that Congress has
repeatedly characterized tribes as governments.[3] And this Court has long recognized
tribes’ governmental status as well. See, e.g., Bay
Mills, 572 U. S., at 788–789; Santa Clara
Pueblo, 436 U. S., at 57–58. We have done so
generally and also in the specific context of tribal sovereign
immunity. Tribal sovereign immunity, “we have explained, is
‘a necessary corollary to Indian sovereignty and
self-governance.’ ” Bay Mills, 572
U. S., at 788; see also id., at 789 (discussing
immunity as an example of tribes’ “governmental powers
and attributes”).

															Putting the pieces together, our analysis of the
question whether the Code abrogates the sovereign immunity of
federally recognized tribes is remarkably straightforward. The Code
unequivocally abrogates the sovereign immunity of all governments,
categorically. Tribes are indisputably governments. Therefore,
§106(a) unmistakably abrogates their sovereign immunity
too.[4]

															IV

															Petitioners raise two main arguments in an
attempt to sow doubt into these clear statutory provisions. Neither
creates the ambiguity petitioners seek.

															A

															For their opening salvo, petitioners try to
make hay out of the simple fact that neither §101(27) nor
§106(a) mentions Indian tribes by name. Had Congress wanted to
abrogate tribal sovereign immunity, petitioners claim, the most
natural and obvious way to have expressed that intent would have
been to reference Indian tribes specifically, rather than smuggle
them into a broadly worded catchall phrase.

															But, as explained at the outset, supra,
at 4, the clear-statement rule is not a magic-words requirement.
Thus, Congress did not have to include a specific reference to
federally recognized tribes in order to make clear that it intended
for tribes to be covered by the abrogation provision. As long as
Congress speaks unequivocally, it passes the clear-statement
test—regardless of whether it articulated its intent in the
most straightforward way. Cooper, 566 U. S., at
291.

															Trying a different tack, petitioners point to
historical practice. In statute after statute, they say, Congress
has specifically mentioned Indian tribes when abrogating their
sovereign immunity. And in no case has this Court ever found an
abrogation of tribal sovereign immunity where the statute did not
reference Indian tribes explicitly. See Brief for Petitioners
24–26.

															These statistics sound quite noteworthy at first
glance. But they do not move the needle in this case. For one
thing, none of petitioners’ cited examples involved a
statutory provision that was worded analogously to, and structured
like, the ones at issue here.[5] Moreover, the universe of cases in which we have
addressed federal statutes abrogating tribal sovereign immunity is
exceedingly slim.[6]

															In any event, the fact that Congress has
referenced tribes specifically in some statutes abrogating tribal
sovereign immunity does not foreclose it from using different
language to accomplish that same goal in other statutory contexts.
Even petitioners appear to concede this basic point. They agree
that Congress could have used a phrase like “every
government” or “any government with sovereign
immunity” to express unambiguously the requisite intent to
abrogate the sovereign immunity of tribes. Id., at 27
(internal quotation marks omitted). For the reasons discussed
above, we believe Congress did just that.

															B

															Petitioners further contend that even if the
relevant provisions could theoretically cover tribes, the statute
can plausibly be read in a way that preserves their immunity.

															1

															According to petitioners, the catchall phrase
“other foreign or domestic government” might simply
capture entities created through “interstate compacts,”
which cannot neatly be characterized as a State or an
instrumentality of a State under §101(27)’s enumerated
list. Id., at 40–41 (internal quotation marks
omitted). Interpreted in that fashion, petitioners maintain, the
catchall phrase would exclude governmental entities that are not
purely foreign or purely domestic—like tribes or the
International Monetary Fund (IMF). Tr. of Oral Arg. 8–9.

															If this interpretation of the statute sounds
far-fetched, that is because it is. To find petitioners’
construction plausible, we would have to interpret “other
foreign or domestic government” to impose a rigid division
between foreign governments on the one hand and domestic
governments on the other, leaving out any governmental entity that
may have both foreign and domestic characteristics (like tribes or
the IMF). But Congress has expressly instructed that the word
“or,” as used in the Code, “is not
exclusive.” 11 U. S. C. §102(5). As a result,
we have serious doubts that Congress meant for §101(27) to
elicit the laser focus on “or” that petitioners’
reading of “foreign or domestic” would entail.[7]

															The dissent’s own arguments undermine any
suggestion that Congress adopted such a siloed view. For instance,
the dissent repeatedly paints tribes as occupying a hybrid position
between foreign and domestic, post, at 6, 8–9 (opinion
of Gorsuch, J.), and posits that Territories historically share
this hybrid status as well, post, at 10 (describing
Territories as tribes’ “close comparator”). Yet,
as the dissent readily acknowledges, Congress expressly included
Territories within §101(27)’s definition of
“governmental unit.” If, on the dissent’s own
account, Territories are “neither foreign nor
domestic,” ibid.—and fall within
§101(27)’s purview nevertheless—it is hard to see
how §101(27)’s catchall phrase would simultaneously
exclude other entities that share that same feature. §101(27)
(“ ‘governmental unit’ means United States;
State; . . . Territory; . . . foreign state; or
other foreign or domestic government” (emphasis
added)).

															In any case, neither petitioners nor the dissent
explain why the Code would draw such a line in the sand. None of
the carefully calibrated exceptions noted in Part III–B,
supra, for governmental units performing regulatory and
tax-related functions turn on whether a government is purely
foreign or domestic. Likewise, it is hard to see why the Code would
subject purely foreign or domestic governments to enforcement
proceedings while at the same time immunizing government creditors
that have both foreign and domestic attributes. Considering that
the one thing every entity in §101(27)’s
enumerated list has in common is its governmental nature—and
that is the same characteristic that matters when the Code
addresses “governmental unit[s]” from one provision to
the next[8]—we are highly
skeptical that Congress distinguished between governments in
the way petitioners suggest.

															2

															Undaunted, petitioners note that Congress has
historically treated various types of governments differently for
purposes of bankruptcy law. Tr. of Oral Arg. 14–15; Reply
Brief 21. They assert that, in the decades leading up to the
Bankruptcy Code’s enactment, bankruptcy law afforded certain
benefits to “ ‘the United States or any State or
any subdivision thereof,’ ” leaving out entities
that did not fall into one of those enumerated categories. Reply
Brief 21 (quoting §64(a)(4), 52Stat. 874).

															Even if petitioners’ understanding of this
history is correct, they have failed to demonstrate that the Code
carried forward any such differential treatment. Congress ushered
in “a new, unprecedented era in bankruptcy practice”
when it enacted the Code in 1978. 1 W. Norton, Bankruptcy Law and
Practice §1:9, p. 1-17 (3d ed. 2023); Northern
Pipeline Constr. Co. v. Marathon Pipe Line Co.,
458 U.S.
50, 52–53 (1982) (plurality opinion) (describing the Code
as “a comprehensive revision of the bankruptcy laws”).
Both §101(27)’s definition of “governmental
unit” and §106(a)’s abrogation of sovereign
immunity were some of the many changes Congress made. The prior
statute did not provide a general definition for governmental
entities, much less include any provision expressly abrogating
governments’ sovereign immunity. Instead, it set forth a
general definition for “States,” which encompassed
Territories, possessions, and the District of Columbia. 52Stat.
842. Then, in each provision where governmental entities were
relevant, Congress specified the particular governmental entities
to which that provision pertained. See, e.g., §17(1),
id., at 851 (exempting from discharge debts “due as a
tax levied by the United States, or any State, county, district, or
municipality”); id., at 874 (providing priority status
to “the United States or any State or any subdivision
thereof ”).

															Section 101(27)’s definition of
“governmental unit” has an undeniably broader reach
than the statutory provisions that preceded it. Section
101(27)’s definition includes, for instance, foreign
countries and instrumentalities, when such entities had generally
been previously absent. And the expansive definition of
“governmental unit” in §101(27) applies throughout
the Bankruptcy Code. In addition, for those who find legislative
history useful, the Senate and House Reports that accompanied the
Code indicate that “governmental unit” was intended to
be defined “in the broadest sense.” S. Rep. No.
95–989, p. 24 (1978); H. R. Rep. No. 95–595, p. 311
(1977). When Congress later added §106(a)’s abrogation
provision, it was that comprehensive definition of
governmental unit that Congress used to specify the scope of the
abrogation’s sweep.

															Thus, however Congress may have treated
governmental entities in bankruptcy law prior to 1978, it had
clearly altered its view about the scope of coverage relative to
governments by the time it enacted §101(27) and §106(a).
Those provisions unequivocally extend to all governments,
for the reasons already discussed, and we decline to read ambiguity
into the statute where none exists.

															*  *  *

															We find that the First Circuit correctly
concluded that the Bankruptcy Code unambiguously abrogates tribal
sovereign immunity. Therefore, the decision below is affirmed.

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 It is undisputed in this
case, and we assume herein, that the Band’s subsidiaries are
arms of the Tribe and enjoy the Band’s sovereign immunity.
In re Coughlin, 33 F. 4th 600, 604, n. 1 (CA1
2022); In re Coughlin, 622 B.R. 491, 493 (Bkrtcy. Ct.
Mass. 2020).
2
  11 U. S. C.
§362(a) (the filing of a bankruptcy petition “operates
as a stay, applicable to all entities” (emphasis
added)); §362(b) (providing limited exceptions to the
automatic-stay provision, none of which categorically exclude a
certain type of creditor for all purposes); §524(a)(2) (the
discharge of a debt “operates as an injunction against the
commencement or continuation of an action . . . to
collect, recover or offset any [discharged] debt as a
personal liability of the debtor” (emphasis added));
§1327(a) (“The provisions of a confirmed plan bind the
debtor and each creditor” (emphasis
added)).
3
 See, e.g., Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, §104(a)(1),
88Stat. 2207 (referring to “the strengthening or improvement
of tribal government”); Tribal Self-Governance Act of 1994,
§§202(2), (5)(A), 108Stat. 4271 (“recogniz[ing] a
special government-to-government relationship with Indian
tribes,” and “transferring control to tribal
governments . . . over funding and decisionmaking for
Federal programs”); Compact of Self-Governance Between the
Duckwater Shoshone Tribe and the United States of America, Art. I,
§2(c) (1995) (explaining that the Compact would allow the
Tribe to “take its rightful place in the family of
governments in the federal constitutional system,” and
“reorganize tribal government programs and
services”).
4
 Given this holding, we
need not decide whether tribes qualify as purely
“domestic” governments. Compare Brief for Petitioners
33 (insisting tribes are not clearly domestic governments), and
post, at 5–11 (Gorsuch, J., dissenting) (similar),
with Brief for Respondent 40–41 (contending that they are).
See also infra, at 12–14.
5
 Petitioners rely, for
instance, on the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976,
which authorizes a “person” to “commence a civil
action.” 42 U. S. C. §6972(a).
“Person” is defined under that statute to include a
“municipality,” which is in turn defined to encompass
“a city, town, borough, county, parish, district, or other
public body created by or pursuant to State law . . . or
an Indian tribe or authorized tribal organization.”
§§6903(13), (15); see also Brief for Petitioners 25
(citing similar provisions). The fact that Congress mentioned
Indian tribes specifically when including them in the category of a
“person” or “municipality” says little
about Congress’s purported need to name Indian tribes when
referring to them as a “governmental unit” or
“other foreign or domestic government.”
6
 The parties’
briefing identifies only two cases. See Michigan v. Bay
Mills Indian Community, 572 U.S.
782, 791 (2014) (recognizing partial abrogation); United
States v. United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co.,
309 U.S.
506, 513 (1940).
7
 Our dissenting colleague
puts forth two hypotheticals that supposedly cast doubt on this
conclusion. See post, at 13–14 (opinion of Gorsuch,
J.). The first involves choosing a pet that is
“ ‘small or a dog,’ ” while the
second concerns an offer to have “chocolate or vanilla”
ice cream. Ibid. But these hypotheticals are not remotely
analogous to “foreign or domestic.” For one thing, the
terms “foreign” and “domestic” are two
poles on a spectrum. See supra, at 5–6. Neither
“small” and “dog” nor
“chocolate” and “vanilla” fit that bill.
For another, whereas the pairing of “foreign” and
“domestic” often covers the waterfront, see
supra, at 6, the dissent’s hypothetical pairings do
not have that same effect. And unlike animals (which need not be
small or doglike) or ice creams (which need not be chocolate or
vanilla), every government must be foreign or domestic to
some degree; the question is just where on the spectrum it falls.
See post, at 6 (observing that the Constitution
“appear[s] to ‘place Indian [T]ribes in an intermediate
category between foreign and domestic states’ ”);
post, at 8 (tribes occupy a “ ‘hybrid
position’ between ‘foreign and domestic states’
”).
8
 For example, the Code
defines “domestic support obligation” to include debts
“owed to or recoverable by” spouses as well as
“governmental unit[s].” §101(14A). And the term
“person” covers an “individual, partnership, and
corporation,” as well as a “governmental unit that
. . . acquires an asset from a person . . . as
a result of the operation of a loan guarantee agreement” or
“as receiver or liquidating agent of a person.”
§101(41). The main feature that sets “governmental
unit[s]” apart from other entities mentioned in these
definitions is their governmental nature.


