::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-381
::decision_name::  Yegiazaryan v. Smagin
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to formal
revision before publication in the United States Reports. Readers
are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of
the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 22–381 and 22–383

															_________________

															ASHOT YEGIAZARYAN, aka ASHOT EGIAZARYAN,
PETITIONER

															22–381v.

															VITALY IVANOVICH SMAGIN,
et al.

															

															CMB MONACO, fka COMPAGNIE MONEGASQUE de
BANQUE, PETITIONER

															22–383v.

															VITALY IVANOVICH SMAGIN,
et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 22, 2023]

															

															Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															Respondent Vitaly Smagin holds a multimillion
dollar California judgment against petitioner Ashot Yegiazaryan,
who lives in California. Smagin, who resides in Russia, filed suit
in the Central District of California alleging that Yegiazaryan,
with the assistance of petitioner CMB Monaco (formerly Compagnie
Monégasque de Banque), engaged in a pattern of criminal
activity, predominantly in and targeted at California, to prevent
him from collecting on his California judgment, in violation of the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), 18
U. S. C. §§1961–1968. The District Court
dismissed the complaint after concluding that Smagin had failed to
allege a “domestic injury,” as required by RJR
Nabisco, Inc. v. European Community, 579 U.S. 325, 334
(2016). The Ninth Circuit reversed, concluding that Smagin had
alleged a domestic injury. This Court agrees with the Ninth
Circuit.

															I

															A

															The essential facts as alleged by Smagin are
as follows. From 2003 to 2009, Yegiazaryan committed fraud against
Smagin, stealing his shares in a joint real estate venture in
Moscow. To avoid a Russian criminal indictment for that fraud,
Yegiazaryan fled to a mansion in Beverly Hills in 2010, where he
has lived ever since. In 2014, Smagin, who lives in Russia, won an
arbitration award in London against Yegiazaryan for the
misappropriation of his real estate investment (London Award).
Yegiazaryan refused to pay that award, which is over $84
million.

															Seeking to collect, Smagin filed an enforcement
action in the Central District of California to confirm and enforce
the London Award under the Convention on the Recognition and
Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, June 10, 1958, 21
U. S. T. 2517, T. I. A. S. No. 6997, as implemented by 9
U. S. C. §§201–208. The District Court
issued a temporary protective order, followed by a preliminary
injunction, freezing Yegiazaryan’s California assets.

															In his application for injunctive relief, Smagin
informed the District Court that Yegiazaryan had been granted a
substantial arbitration award in an unrelated proceeding involving
Yegiazaryan and yet another Russian businessman, Suleymon Kerimov
(Kerimov Award). At the time, no funds had yet been paid to
Yegiazaryan in satisfaction of that award, but Smagin was concerned
that when they were paid, Yegiazaryan would take steps to transfer
the money out of Smagin’s reach.

															Smagin’s concerns were justified. In May
2015, Yegiazaryan received a $198 million settlement in
satisfaction of the Kerimov Award. To avoid the District
Court’s asset freeze, Yegiazaryan accepted the money through
the London office of an American law firm headquartered in Los
Angeles. Yegiazaryan then created “a complex web of offshore
entities to conceal the funds,” App. 56a, and ultimately
transferred the funds to a bank account with petitioner CMB Monaco.
Yegiazaryan also directed those in his inner circle to file
fraudulent claims against him in foreign jurisdictions, which he
would not oppose, in an attempt to obtain sham judgments that would
encumber the $198 million, thereby blocking Smagin’s access
to it.

															Around the same time, Yegiazaryan was hiding his
assets in the United States through a system of “shell
companies” owned by family members. Id., at 61a. This
included a Nevada company, which was owned by his brother and
created “for the purpose of sheltering [Yegiazaryan’s]
U. S. assets from his creditors,” including Smagin.
Id., at 44a.

															Smagin did not learn about the $198 million
settlement, Yegiazaryan’s efforts to hide it, or the
U. S. shell companies until February 2016, when Smagin was
granted leave to intervene in Yegiazaryan’s California
divorce proceedings. The next month, the California District Court
in the London Award enforcement action granted Smagin’s
motion for summary judgment on his petition for confirmation of the
Award and entered judgment against Yegiazaryan for $92 million,
including interest. The court also issued several postjudgment
orders barring Yegiazaryan and those acting at his direction from
preventing collection on the judgment.

															For failing to comply with those orders, the
District Court subsequently found Yegiazaryan in contempt of court.
To avoid having to comply with the contempt order, however,
Yegiazaryan falsely claimed he was too ill, and submitted a forged
doctor’s note to the District Court. When Smagin notified
Yegiazaryan that he would be seeking to depose the doctor in
question, who resides in California, Yegiazaryan used
“intimidation, threats, or corrupt persuasion,”
id., at 82a, to get the doctor to avoid service of the
subpoena.

															B

															At issue here is a civil RICO suit that Smagin
brought in 2020 based on the allegations just described. RICO
provides a private right of action to “[a]ny person injured
in his business or property by reason of a violation
of ” RICO’s substantive provisions. 18
U. S. C. §1964(c). Invoking that cause of action,
Smagin sued Yegiazaryan and CMB Bank (the two petitioners here), as
well as 10 other defendants, in the Central District of
California.[1] The complaint
asserts two claims against each: a substantive RICO violation,
§1962(c), and a RICO conspiracy claim, §1962(d). The
thrust of Smagin’s allegations is that the defendants worked
together under Yegiazaryan’s direction to frustrate
Smagin’s collection on the California judgment through a
pattern of wire fraud and other RICO predicate racketeering acts,
including witness tampering and obstruction of justice. For these
violations, Smagin seeks not only actual damages “no less
than $130 million,” App. 100a, but also attorney’s fees
and treble damages as authorized under RICO. See §1964(c).

															The District Court dismissed the complaint on
the ground that Smagin had “fail[ed] to adequately plead a
domestic injury,” id., at 31a, as required by this
Court’s decision in RJR Nabisco. See 579 U. S.,
at 346 (“A private RICO plaintiff therefore must allege and
prove a domestic injury to its business or property”).
The District Court “place[d] great weight on the fact that
Smagin is a resident and citizen of Russia and therefore
experiences the loss from his inability to collect on his judgment
in Russia.” App. 27a (internal quotation marks and
alterations omitted).

															The Ninth Circuit reversed. It rejected
petitioners’ invitation to follow the domestic-injury
approach of the Seventh Circuit, “which has adopted a rigid,
residency-based test for domestic injuries involving intangible
property,” such as a judgment. 37 F. 4th 562, 568, 570 (2022)
(citing Armada (Sing.) PTE Ltd. v. Amcol Int’l
Corp., 885 F.3d 1090 (2018)). Under the Seventh Circuit’s
rule, which locates an injury to intangible property at the
plaintiff ’s residence, Smagin could not allege a
domestic injury because he resides in Russia. See Armada,
885 F. 3d, at 1094. The Ninth Circuit instead adopted a
“context-specific” approach to the domestic-injury
inquiry, which it found consistent with the approaches of the
Second and Third Circuits. 37 F. 4th, at 568–570; see
Bascuñán v. Elsaca, 874 F.3d 806, 809
(CA2 2017); Humphrey v. GlaxoSmithKline PLC, 905 F.3d
694, 696 (CA3 2018). Applying that approach, the Ninth Circuit
concluded that Smagin had pleaded a domestic injury because he had
alleged that his efforts to execute on a California judgment in
California against a California resident were foiled by a pattern
of racketeering activity that largely “occurred in, or was
targeted at, California” and was “designed to
subvert” enforcement of the judgment in California. 37 F.
4th, at 567–568.

															This Court granted certiorari to resolve the
Circuit split. 598 U. S. ___ (2023). Because a
context-specific inquiry is most consistent with this Court’s
decision in RJR Nabisco, and because the context here makes
clear Smagin has alleged a domestic injury, the Court affirms.

															II

															A

															The “domestic-injury” requirement
for private civil RICO suits stems from this Court’s decision
in RJR Nabisco. There, the question before the Court was
whether RICO applies extraterritorially. To answer that question,
the Court employed the presumption against extraterritoriality,
which “represents a canon of construction, or a presumption
about a statute’s meaning, rather than a limit upon
Congress’s power to legislate.” Morrison v.
National Australia Bank Ltd., 561 U.S.
247, 255 (2010). The presumption provides that “[a]bsent
clearly expressed congressional intent to the contrary, federal
laws will be construed to have only domestic application.”
RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 335.

															Dual rationales support the presumption against
extraterritoriality. On the one hand, it reflects concerns of
international comity insofar as it “ ‘serves to
protect against unintended clashes between our laws and those of
other nations which could result in international
discord.’ ” Kiobel v. Royal Dutch
Petroleum Co., 569 U.S.
108, 115 (2013) (quoting EEOC v. Arabian American Oil
Co., 499 U.S.
244, 248 (1991)). On the other hand, the presumption is
informed by “the commonsense notion that Congress generally
legislates with domestic concerns in mind.” Smith v.
United States, 507 U.S.
197, 204, n. 5 (1993). In fact, consistent application of
the presumption “preserv[es] a stable background against
which Congress can legislate with predictable effects.”
Morrison, 561 U. S., at 261.

															RJR Nabisco distilled the presumption
against extraterritoriality into two steps. The first asks
“whether the statute gives a clear, affirmative indication
that it applies extraterritorially.” 579 U. S., at 337.
If the answer is “yes,” then the presumption is
rebutted, obviating any need to proceed to step two. If the
presumption is not rebutted, however, then step two asks whether
the case involves a domestic application of the statute, which is
assessed “by looking to the statute’s
‘focus.’ ” Ibid.[2]

															Applying this framework, the Court assessed the
extraterritoriality of two of RICO’s substantive provisions
and, as relevant here, its private cause of action. As to the
substantive provisions, the Court held at step one that they apply
extraterritorially to the same extent that RICO’s predicates
do, making it unnecessary to proceed to step two. Id., at
340. Regarding RICO’s private right of action, §1964(c),
however, the Court’s conclusion was different. The Court
determined that §1964(c) does not overcome the presumption at
step one because there is no “clear indication that Congress
intended to create a private right of action for injuries suffered
outside of the United States.” Id., at 349. “If
anything,” the Court reasoned, by “cabining” the
private cause of action to “injur[ies] to ‘business or
property,’ ” “Congress signaled that the
civil remedy is not coextensive with §1962’s substantive
prohibitions.” Id., at 350. Accordingly, in reference
to step two, the Court held that “[a] private RICO plaintiff
. . . must allege and prove a domestic injury to
its business or property.” Id., at 346.

															In announcing this “domestic-injury”
requirement, the Court did not have occasion to explain what
constitutes a “domestic-injury,” because the plaintiffs
in RJR Nabisco had stipulated that they were not seeking
redress for domestic injuries. Id., at 354. The
question now before the Court is whether Smagin has alleged a
domestic injury.

															B

															The parties advance competing approaches to
the domestic injury inquiry. Petitioners urge the Court to adopt a
bright-line rule, akin to the Seventh Circuit’s, that locates
a plaintiff ’s injury at the plaintiff ’s
residence. Petitioners advance two different versions of this
rule.

															As their primary position, petitioners argue
that any injury cognizable under §1964(c) is
necessarily suffered at the plaintiff ’s residence
because “the private cause of action remedies only economic
injuries, and a plaintiff necessarily suffers that injury at its
residence” where the economic injury is felt. Brief for
Petitioners 2. In the alternative, petitioners argue that, at least
when the alleged injury involves intangible property, such
as the judgment here, relevant common-law principles locate the
intangible property at the plaintiff ’s place of
residence, such that the injury is also located there. Id.,
at 2–3, 43–44. On either version of petitioners’
rule, Smagin cannot allege a domestic injury because he lives in
Russia.

															Smagin, in contrast, defends a contextual
approach that considers all case-specific facts bearing on where
the injury “arises,” not just where it is
“felt.” Brief for Respondent 9. In the context of this
suit, Smagin argues that he has stated a domestic injury because he
has alleged that he was injured in his ability to enforce a
California judgment, against a California resident, through
racketeering acts that were largely “designed and carried out
in California” and were “targeted at California.”
Id., at 3, 21.

															C

															The Court agrees with Smagin and the Ninth
Circuit that “determining whether a plaintiff has alleged a
domestic injury [for purposes of RICO] is a context-specific
inquiry that turns largely on the particular facts alleged in a
complaint.” 37 F. 4th, at 570. Specifically, courts should
look to the circumstances surrounding the alleged injury to assess
whether it arose in the United States. In this suit, that means
looking to the nature of the alleged injury, the racketeering
activity that directly caused it,[3] and the injurious aims and effects of that
activity.

															This approach to the domestic-injury requirement
is most consistent with RJR Nabisco. There, the Court
clarified that its domestic-injury requirement “does not mean
that foreign plaintiffs may not sue under RICO.” 579
U. S., at 353, n. 12. Similarly, the Court explained that
“application of [the domestic-injury] rule in any given case
will not always be self-evident, as disputes may arise as to
whether a particular alleged injury is ‘foreign’ or
‘domestic.’ ” Id., at 354. These
remarks point toward a case-specific inquiry that considers the
particular facts surrounding the alleged injury. Petitioners’
bright-line rule, in contrast, dispenses with any such subtlety. It
makes the location of the plaintiff ’s residence
determinative, thus barring all foreign plaintiffs, exactly as
RJR Nabisco said it was not doing.

															A contextual approach to the domestic-injury
requirement also better reflects the requirement’s origin in
step two of the extraterritoriality framework, which assesses
whether there is a domestic application of a statute by looking to
the statute’s focus. RJR Nabisco implied that the
focus of §1964(c) is injuries in “business or property
by reason of a violation of [RICO’s substantive
provisions].” §1964(c). This focus makes sense because,
in the context of RICO, “the compensable injury necessarily
is the harm caused by predicate acts sufficiently related to
constitute a pattern, for the essence of the violation is the
commission of those acts in connection with the conduct of an
enterprise.” Sedima, S. P. R. L. v. Imrex Co.,
473 U.S.
479, 497 (1985). So understood, §1964(c)’s focus is
on the injury, not in isolation, but as the product of racketeering
activity. Thus, in assessing whether there is a domestic injury,
courts should engage in a case-specific analysis that looks to the
circumstances surrounding the injury. If those circumstances
sufficiently ground the injury in the United States, such that it
is clear the injury arose domestically, then the plaintiff has
alleged a domestic injury.

															Because of the contextual nature of the inquiry,
no set of factors can capture the relevant considerations for all
cases. RICO covers a wide range of predicate acts and is
notoriously “expansive” in scope. Id., at
498–499. Thus, depending on the allegations, what is relevant
in one case to assessing where the injury arose may not be
pertinent in another. While a bright-line rule would no doubt be
easier to apply, fealty to the statute’s focus requires a
more nuanced approach.

															D

															This suit illustrates well why the
domestic-injury inquiry must account for the facts of the case,
rather than rely on a residency-based rule. While it may be true,
in some sense, that Smagin has felt his economic injury in Russia,
focusing solely on that fact would miss central features of the
alleged injury. Zooming out, the circumstances surrounding
Smagin’s injury make clear it arose in the United States.

															Smagin alleges that he “has been injured
in his inability to collect [his] massive judgment.” App.
38a. Much of the alleged racketeering activity that caused the
injury occurred in the United States. Yegiazaryan took domestic
actions to avoid collection, including allegedly creating
U. S. shell companies to hide his U. S. assets,
submitting a forged doctor’s note to a California District
Court, and intimidating a U. S.-based witness. It is true that
other components of the scheme occurred abroad. As Smagin alleges,
however, even those “wrongful acts and plans were devised,
initiated, and carried out . . . through acts and
communications initiated in and directed towards Los Angeles
County, California,” with the “central purpose of
frustrating enforcement of [the] California judgment.”
Id., at 45a–46a.

															Further, the injurious effects of the
racketeering activity largely manifested in California. Smagin
obtained a judgment in California because that is where Yegiazaryan
lives, and where Smagin had thus hoped to collect. The rights that
the California judgment provides to Smagin exist only in
California, including the right to obtain postjudgment discovery,
the right to seize assets in California, and the right to seek
other appropriate relief from the California District Court. The
alleged RICO scheme thwarted those rights, thereby undercutting the
orders of the California District Court and Smagin’s efforts
to collect on Yegiazaryan’s assets in California.

															In sum, Smagin’s interests in his
California judgment against Yegiazaryan, a California resident,
were directly injured by racketeering activity either taken in
California or directed from California, with the aim and effect of
subverting Smagin’s rights to execute on that judgment in
California. On the Court’s contextual approach, those
allegations suffice to state a domestic injury in this suit.

															III

															Petitioners argue that a contextual approach
is inconsistent with certain common-law principles, which instead
favor their bright-line rule. According to petitioners, because
Smagin has alleged an “economic injury” or an
“injury in intangible property,” Brief in Opposition
15–16, courts should look to common-law principles governing
“the situs” of such injuries, when determining whether
those injuries are foreign or domestic. Specifically, as to
economic injuries, petitioners point to the Restatement (First) of
Conflict of Laws §377 (1934), from which they discern the
principle that “a fraud plaintiff suffers an economic loss at
the plaintiff ’s domicile.” Brief for Petitioners
36; see also Sack v. Low, 478 F.2d 360, 366 (CA2
1973) (Under the First Restatement, “loss from fraud is
deemed to be suffered where its economic impact is felt, normally
the plaintiff ’s residence”). As to intangible
injuries, petitioners further rely on the principle of mobilia
sequuntur personam, which they claim “generally locat[es]
intangible property at the domicile of its owner.” Brief for
Petitioners 44. Both principles, they argue, locate Smagin’s
alleged injury at his residence.

															Petitioners fall short, however, when explaining
the relevance of these principles. They do not clearly explain why
choice-of-law principles are germane here, let alone why the First
Restatement dictates those principles.[4] Meanwhile, it is far from clear that petitioners’
gloss on the principle of mobilia sequuntur personam was as
well established or as wide sweeping as petitioners take it to be,
in light of the many twists and turns in the doctrine across a
range of contexts. See A. Simowitz, Siting Intangibles, 48 N. Y. U.
J. Int’l L. & Pol. 259, 270–292 (2015). In short,
at the time of RICO’s enactment, both principles were hardly
“settled . . . at common law.” Beck v.
Prupis, 529 U.S.
494, 500 (2000).

															The core problem with petitioners’
approach is that it is unmoored from the presumption against
extraterritoriality. While legal fictions regarding the situs of
economic injuries and intangible property have their justifications
in other areas of law, those justifications do not necessarily
translate to the presumption against extraterritoriality, with its
distinctive concerns for comity and discerning congressional
meaning.

															Indeed, it is because petitioners’ view
invokes these fictions that it generates results so counter to
comity and so far afield from any reasonable interpretation of what
qualifies as a domestic application of §1964(c). On
petitioners’ primary view, a business owner who resides
abroad but owns a brick-and-mortar business in the United States
cannot bring a §1964(c) suit even if an American RICO
organization burns down her storefront. Perhaps aware of how odd
this seems, petitioners offer a fallback rule for intangible
property. That rule fares no better. It provides that if
racketeering activity targets the intangible business interests of
two U. S. businesses, one owned by a U. S. resident and
one owned by someone living abroad, only the former business owner
can bring a §1964(c) suit. There is no evidence Congress
intended to impose such a double standard, especially because doing
so runs its own risks of generating international discord. These
implausible consequences are strong evidence that petitioners have
gone astray in assessing the focus of §1964(c) and, thus, the
meaning of “domestic injury” as contemplated by RJR
Nabisco.

															Finally, petitioners, as well as the dissent,
post, at 5 (opinion of Alito, J.), argue that a contextual
approach is unworkable because it does not provide a bright-line
rule. Reply Brief 17–18. An approach is not unworkable,
however, merely because it directs courts to consider the
case-specific circumstances surrounding an injury when assessing
where it arises. While “the ease with which
[petitioners’] bright-line rule can be applied gives it some
surface appeal,” Humphrey, 905 F. 3d, at 709, a
look beneath the surface quickly reveals that the test is
inconsistent with RJR Nabisco, the presumption against
extraterritoriality, and the thrust of §1964(c) itself.
Concerns about a fact-intensive test cannot displace congressional
policy choices, where a more nuanced test is true to the
statute’s meaning.

															*  *  *

															A plaintiff has alleged a domestic injury for
purposes of §1964(c) when the circumstances surrounding the
injury indicate it arose in the United States. Smagin alleges that
he was injured in California because his ability to enforce a
California judgment in California against a California resident was
impaired by racketeering activity that largely occurred in or was
directed from and targeted at California. Those allegations state a
domestic injury. The judgment of the Ninth Circuit is affirmed, and
the cases are remanded for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 Only Yegiazaryan and CMB
Bank petitioned for this Court’s review. The other defendants
include three family members (Suren Yegiazaryan, Artem Yegiazaryan,
and Stephan Yegiazaryan); an alleged Russian accomplice (Vitaly
Gogokhia); French, Russian, and Luxembourger individuals who have
been administrators of the trust holding the $198 million (Natalia
Dozortseva, Murielle Jouniaux, and Alexis Gaston Thielen); an
allegedly corrupt Russian bankruptcy officer (Ratnikov Evgeny
Nikolaevich); and a registered company hired by Yegiazaryan
(Prestige Trust Company, Ltd.) and its U. S. lawyer (H. Edward
Ryals).
2
 “While ‘it
will usually be preferable’ to begin with step one, courts
have the discretion to begin at step two ‘in appropriate
cases.’ ” WesternGeco LLC v. ION
Geophysical Corp., 585 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at
5) (citing RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 338,
n. 5).
3
 The alleged RICO
violation must have proximately caused the injury in order for the
plaintiff to be able to sue under §1964(c). See Holmes
v. Securities Investor Protection Corporation, 503 U.S.
258, 268 (1992); Anza v. Ideal Steel Supply
Corp., 547 U.S.
451, 457–458 (2006) (describing the proximate causation
requirement as a “directness
requiremen[t]”).
4
 Although the First
Restatement was in effect in 1970, when RICO was enacted, numerous
jurisdictions had by then moved away from the First
Restatement’s methodology and toward a
“ ‘most significant
relationship’ ” test, which resembles “the
kind of ‘multi-factor’ analysis the Court of Appeals
conducted here.” Brief for George A. Bermann as Amicus
Curiae 15. This shift was reflected in §145 of the
Restatement (Second) of Conflict of Laws, which superseded the
First Restatement the following year in 1971. Thus, even assuming
choice-of-law principles are relevant, petitioners’
identification and application of those principles is
questionable.


