::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-381
::decision_name::  Yegiazaryan v. Smagin
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 22–381 and 22–383

															_________________

															ASHOT YEGIAZARYAN, aka ASHOT EGIAZARYAN,
PETITIONER

															22–381v.

															VITALY IVANOVICH SMAGIN,
et al.

															

															CMB MONACO, fka COMPAGNIE MONEGASQUE de
BANQUE, PETITIONER

															22–383v.

															VITALY IVANOVICH SMAGIN,
et al.

															on writs of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 22, 2023]

															

															Justice Alito, with whom Justice Thomas joins,
and with whom Justice Gorsuch joins as to Part I, dissenting.

															These are the first cases in which we have been
required to decide when injury to intangible property that a civil
plaintiff attributes to a violation of the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) qualifies as a “domestic
injury” and may therefore provide the basis for recovery
under 18 U. S. C. §1964(c). See RJR Nabisco,
Inc. v. European Community, 579 U.S. 325, 346–354
(2016). This question has divided the lower courts, but the
Court’s decision resolves very little. It holds only that
ascertaining the site of intangible injuries for purposes of civil
RICO requires a court to consult a variety of factors and that two
factors it identifies show that respondent has suffered a domestic
injury. This analysis offers virtually no guidance to lower courts,
and it risks sowing confusion in our extraterritoriality
precedents. Rather than take this unhelpful step, I would dismiss
the writ of certiorari as improvidently granted.

															I

															We granted certiorari “to resolve [a]
Circuit split” between, on the one hand, the Third and Ninth
Circuits, which embrace a totality-based inquiry like the one the
Court adopts here, and, on the other hand, the Seventh Circuit,
which has held that RICO injuries to intangible property are sited
at the plaintiff ’s residence. Ante, at 5;
compare Humphrey v. GlaxoSmithKline PLC, 905 F.3d
694, 706–707 (CA3 2018), and 37 F. 4th 562,
567–568 (CA9 2022) (case below), with Armada (Sing.) PTE
Ltd. v. Amcol Int’l Corp., 885 F.3d 1090,
1094–1095 (CA7 2018).[1]
The Seventh Circuit’s decision, however, contains little
analysis and simply declares that “[i]t is well understood
that a party experiences or sustains injuries to its intangible
property at its residence.” Id., at 1094; see also
Czyzewski v. Jevic Holding Corp., 580 U.S. 451, 471
(2017) (Thomas, J., dissenting) (referring to a dearth of
“reasoned opinions . . . from the courts of
appeals” regarding “a novel and important
question”). The Third and Ninth Circuits, for their parts,
did not coalesce around any common set of factors to guide the
civil RICO domestic-injury inquiry for intangible-property claims.
See Humphrey, 905 F. 3d, at 706–707; 37
F. 4th, at 567–568. And no court of appeals has even
broached the possibility that different categorical rules might be
available for different types of intangible property (e.g.,
perhaps there could be a rule that injuries to trademark rights
should be sited in the country that provided the trademark).
“[W]e would greatly benefit from the views of additional
courts of appeals on this question.” Czyzewski, 580
U. S., at 472 (Thomas, J., dissenting).

															Bringing clarity to this area of the law is not
an easy task, and I must conclude that the Court falls short. It
cites petitioners’ domestic racketeering conduct and the
California rights conferred by the California judgment Smagin has
obtained to enforce his London arbitral award, but it gives no
indication of the relative import of each of these factors.
Ante, at 10–11. And while the Court appears to
envision a long list of factors that might be relevant to this
inquiry, see ante, at 10, it mentions none other than these
two. Nor does it say anything about the circumstances that would
call for consideration of additional factors, when such factors
might outweigh one or both of the ones it mentions, or what these
other factors might be.

															Of course, under the majority’s
all-factors-considered approach, many other features of this very
suit could be relevant, such as the history and location of
the underlying dispute, where any relevant business relationships
were formed, Smagin’s residence, and the existence of the
London arbitral award. Are future courts to infer that these
matters have no import? It is difficult to come to any other
conclusion given that the Court pays them no heed in undertaking
what is ostensibly an examination of all relevant
“contex[t].” Ante, at 8–10. But it is
equally difficult to see why they are irrelevant (especially in
light of the Court’s unexplored acknowledgment that “in
some sense, . . . Smagin has felt his economic injury in
Russia,” ante, at 10), or what room the Court is
leaving for additional factors to be identified if none of these
counts. And because the Court sets aside the factors that would
favor petitioners, it also provides no guidance on how to weigh
competing considerations that do not all point toward the same
result.

															One might additionally think that the nature of
the intangible property itself could be relevant under the
majority’s approach, such as whether the property is a debt,
a stock, a trademark, etc. In these cases, however, the
relationship between the California judgment Smagin has obtained
and the underlying arbitral award that that judgment confirmed is
uncertain, so the precise property at issue is another aspect of
this suit that is shrouded in confusion. Smagin acknowledged at
oral argument that even though he has obtained multiple judgments
confirming the arbitral award, he can collect on only one. See Tr.
of Oral Arg. 49. There is thus at least some relevant relationship
between the California judgment and the London arbitral
award—the latter of which is not “domestic” in
any way—but the Court does not address this point,
either.

															Even with respect to the two factors it focuses
on, the Court engenders confusion. It offers no hint which of the
two might be more important (should they point in different
directions), whether either or both are necessary, or whether
either is sufficient. And the Court acknowledges that there was
also substantial foreign conduct in these cases, but writes that
off because it was “ ‘initiated in and directed
towards’ ” the United States. Ante, at 10.
Once more, I am unsure of the origin or scope of this rule. If
domestic conduct is “initiated in” a foreign nation,
does that make it foreign? What exactly does it mean to direct
conduct “towards” the United States? All in all, were I
a lower-court judge, I would struggle to apply today’s
decision to any set of facts other than the precise combination
present here. In my view, it is not worth our deciding a case when
we provoke so many more questions than we provide answers. That is
especially so now that the lower courts must additionally decide
whether and how today’s cryptic decision binds them, rather
than continuing to think through unencumbered when
intangible-property injuries are the basis of a domestic
application of civil RICO.

															II

															It is not just that we are contributing little
by deciding these cases, however; we are also risking significant
harm, particularly to the uniformity of our case law. A thrust of
our international-comity jurisprudence is that we should not
lightly give foreign plaintiffs access to U. S. remedial
schemes that are far more generous than those available in their
home nations. See RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at
347–348; F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd v. Empagran
S. A., 542 U.S.
155, 166–167 (2004). In light of RICO’s unusually
plaintiff-friendly remedies, that concern applies in spades here.
See RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 348. But in
today’s decision, the Court countenances that the
plaintiff ’s residence may play no role at all in
the civil RICO extraterritoriality inquiry. The Court justifies
this result with the assertion that favoring U. S.
plaintiffs’ access to American courts over that of foreign
plaintiffs “runs its own risks of generating international
discord,” ante, at 13, a concern that the Court
directly rejected in RJR Nabisco, see 579 U. S., at 361
(Ginsburg, J., dissenting in relevant part).

															Additionally, we have placed a premium on
workability in our extraterritorial-application cases. The Court
acknowledges that a bright-line rule would be preferable here, but
essentially shrugs: RICO is too “nuanced” for that.
Ante, at 10, 13. Our cases do not let us off the hook so
easily. Compare Morrison v. National Australia Bank
Ltd., 561 U.S.
247, 258–259 (2010) (“There is no more damning
indictment of the [Second Circuit’s] ‘conduct’
and ‘effects’ tests than the Second Circuit’s own
declaration that ‘the presence or absence of any single
factor which was considered significant in other cases
. . . is not necessarily dispositive in future
cases’ ”), with ante, at 10 (“[N]o
set of factors can capture the relevant considerations for all
cases”).

															Perhaps there is a reason why RICO justifies
these departures from our customary rules, but I have no confidence
in reaching that conclusion now (let alone sub silentio).
RJR Nabisco was relatively recent, and there have been only
a small number of court of appeals decisions implementing it, and
even fewer with respect to intangible property. Moreover, unlike in
our typical extraterritoriality case, we have received no input
here from the sovereign states our rules will affect, including the
U. S. Government. RJR Nabisco, 579 U. S., at 348;
Morrison, 561 U. S., at 269; F. Hoffmann-La
Roche, 542 U. S., at 167–168.

															*  *  *

															The only rule of law that the Court announces
today is that there is no rule, and despite offering such minimal
guidance regarding how to site a RICO injury, the Court nonetheless
manages to sow confusion regarding our broader law of
extraterritoriality. Respectfully, the most we could contribute to
this issue at this juncture is to stay away from it. I would
dismiss the writ of certiorari as improvidently granted.

Notes
1
The Second Circuit has adopted
a bright-line rule that RICO injuries to tangible property
are sited at the location of the property.
Bascuñán v. Elsaca, 874 F.3d 806,
818–824 (2017). The Second Circuit’s holding is not
implicated in this split, nor did that court offer any analysis of
intangible property relevant to these cases.


