::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-506
::decision_name::  Biden v. Nebraska
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States Reports.
Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of Decisions, Supreme
Court of the United States, Washington, D. C. 20543,
pio@supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or other formal
errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–506

															_________________

															Joseph R. Biden, President of the United
States, et al., PETITIONERS v. Nebraska,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the
united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit

															[June 30, 2023]

															Chief Justice Roberts delivered the opinion of
the Court.

															To ensure that Americans could keep up with
increasing international competition, Congress authorized the first
federal student loans in 1958—up to a total of $1,000 per
student each year. National Defense Education Act of 1958, 72Stat.
1584. Outstanding federal student loans now total $1.6 trillion
extended to 43 million borrowers. Letter from Congressional Budget
Office to Members of Congress, p. 3 (Sept. 26, 2022) (CBO Letter).
Last year, the Secretary of Education established the first
comprehensive student loan forgiveness program, invoking the Higher
Education Relief Opportunities for Students Act of 2003 (HEROES
Act) for authority to do so. The Secretary’s plan canceled
roughly $430 billion of federal student loan balances, completely
erasing the debts of 20 million borrowers and lowering the median
amount owed by the other 23 million from $29,400 to $13,600. See
ibid.; App. 243. Six States sued, arguing that the HEROES
Act does not authorize the loan cancellation plan. We agree.

															I

															A

															The Higher Education Act of 1965 (Education
Act) was enacted to increase educational opportunities and
“assist in making available the benefits of postsecondary
education to eligible students . . . in institutions of
higher education.” 20 U. S. C. §1070(a). To
that end, Title IV of the Act restructured federal financial aid
mechanisms and established three types of federal student loans.
Direct Loans are, as the name suggests, made directly to students
and funded by the federal fisc; they constitute the bulk of the
Federal Government’s student lending efforts. See §1087a
et seq. The Government also administers Perkins Loans—
government-subsidized, low-interest loans made by schools to
students with significant financial need—and Federal Family
Education Loans, or FFELs—loans made by private lenders and
guaranteed by the Federal Government. See §§1071
et seq., 1087aa et seq. While FFELs and Perkins
Loans are no longer issued, many remain outstanding.
§§1071(d), 1087aa(b).

															The terms of federal loans are set by law, not
the market, so they often come with benefits not offered by private
lenders. Such benefits include deferment of any repayment until
after graduation, loan qualification regardless of credit history,
relatively low fixed interest rates, income-sensitive repayment
plans, and—for undergraduate students with financial
need—government payment of interest while the borrower is in
school. Dept. of Ed., Federal Student Aid, Federal Versus Private
Loans.

															The Education Act specifies in detail the terms
and conditions attached to federal loans, including applicable
interest rates, loan fees, repayment plans, and consequences of
default. See §§1077, 1080, 1087e, 1087dd. It also
authorizes the Secretary to cancel or reduce loans, but only in
certain limited circumstances and to a particular extent.
Specifically, the Secretary can cancel a set amount of loans held
by some public servants—including teachers, members of the
Armed Forces, Peace Corps volunteers, law enforcement and
corrections officers, firefighters, nurses, and
librarians—who work in their professions for a minimum number
of years. §§1078–10, 1087j, 1087ee. The Secretary
can also forgive the loans of borrowers who have died or been
“permanently and totally disabled,” such that they
cannot “engage in any substantial gainful activity.”
§1087(a)(1). Bankrupt borrowers may have their loans forgiven.
§1087(b). And the Secretary is directed to discharge loans for
borrowers falsely certified by their schools, borrowers whose
schools close down, and borrowers whose schools fail to pay loan
proceeds they owe to lenders. §1087(c).

															Shortly after the September 11 terrorist
attacks, Congress became concerned that borrowers affected by the
crisis—particularly those who served in the
military—would need additional assistance. As a result, it
enacted the Higher Education Relief Opportunities for Students Act
of 2001. That law provided the Secretary of Education, for a
limited period of time, with “specific waiver authority to
respond to conditions in the national emergency” caused by
the September 11 attacks. 115Stat. 2386. Rather than allow this
grant of authority to expire by its terms at the end of September
2003, Congress passed the Higher Education Relief Opportunities for
Students Act of 2003 (HEROES Act). 117Stat. 904. That Act extended
the coverage of the 2001 statute to include any war or national
emergency—not just the September 11 attacks. By its terms,
the Secretary “may waive or modify any statutory or
regulatory provision applicable to the student financial assistance
programs under title IV of the [Education Act] as the Secretary
deems necessary in connection with a war or other military
operation or national emergency.” 20 U. S. C.
§1098bb(a)(1).[1]

															The Secretary may issue waivers or modifications
only “as may be necessary to ensure” that
“recipients of student financial assistance under title IV of
the [Education Act] who are affected individuals are not placed in
a worse position financially in relation to that financial
assistance because of their status as affected
individuals.”

															Immediately following the passage of the Act in
2003, the Secretary issued two dozen waivers and modifications
addressing a handful of specific issues. 68 Fed. Reg.
69312–69318. Among other changes, the Secretary waived the
requirement that “affected individuals” must
“return or repay an overpayment” of certain grant funds
erroneously disbursed by the Government, id., at 69314, and
the requirement that public service work must be uninterrupted to
qualify an “affected individual” for loan cancellation,
id., at 69317. Additional adjustments were made in 2012,
with similar limited effects. 77 Fed. Reg. 59311–59318.

															But the Secretary took more significant action
in response to the COVID–19 pandemic. On March 13, 2020, the
President declared the pandemic a national emergency. Presidential
Proclamation No. 9994, 85 Fed. Reg. 15337–15338 (2020). One
week later, then-Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos announced that
she was suspending loan repayments and interest accrual for all
federally held student loans. See Dept. of Ed., Breaking News:
Testing Waivers and Student Loan Relief (Mar. 20, 2020). The
following week, Congress enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and
Economic Security Act, which required the Secretary to extend the
suspensions through the end of September 2020. 134Stat.
404–405. Before that extension expired, the President
directed the Secretary, “[i]n light of the national
emergency,” to “effectuate appropriate waivers of and
modifications to” the Education Act to keep the suspensions
in effect through the end of the year. 85 Fed. Reg. 49585. And a
few months later, the Secretary further extended the suspensions,
broadened eligibility for federal financial assistance, and waived
certain administrative requirements (to allow, for example, virtual
rather than on-site accreditation visits and to extend deadlines
for filing reports). Id., at 79856–79863; 86 Fed. Reg.
5008–5009 (2021).

															Over a year and a half passed with no further
action beyond keeping the repayment and interest suspensions in
place. But in August 2022, a few weeks before President Biden
stated that “the pandemic is over,” the Department of
Education announced that it was once again issuing “waivers
and modifications” under the Act—this time to reduce
and eliminate student debts directly. See App. 257–259;
Washington Post, Sept. 20, 2022, p. A3, col. 1. During the first
year of the pandemic, the Department’s Office of General
Counsel had issued a memorandum concluding that “the
Secretary does not have statutory authority to provide blanket or
mass cancellation, compromise, discharge, or forgiveness of student
loan principal balances.” Memorandum from R. Rubinstein to B.
DeVos, p. 8 (Jan. 12, 2021). After a change in Presidential
administrations and shortly before adoption of the challenged
policy, however, the Office of General Counsel “formally
rescinded” its earlier legal memorandum and issued a
replacement reaching the opposite conclusion. 87 Fed. Reg. 52945
(2022). The new memorandum determined that the HEROES Act
“grants the Secretary authority that could be used to
effectuate a program of targeted loan cancellation directed at
addressing the financial harms of the COVID–19
pandemic.” Id., at 52944. Upon receiving this new
opinion, the Secretary issued his proposal to cancel student debt
under the HEROES Act. App. 257–259. Two months later, he
published the required notice of his “waivers and
modifications” in the Federal Register. 87 Fed. Reg.
61512–61514.

															The terms of the debt cancellation plan are
straightforward: For borrowers with an adjusted gross income below
$125,000 in either 2020 or 2021 who have eligible federal loans,
the Department of Education will discharge the balance of those
loans in an amount up to $10,000 per borrower.[2] Id., at 61514 (“modif[ying] the
provisions of ” 20 U. S. C. §§1087,
1087dd(g); 34 CFR pt. 647, subpt. D (2022); 34 CFR
§§682.402, 685.212). Borrowers who previously received
Pell Grants qualify for up to $20,000 in loan cancellation. 87 Fed.
Reg. 61514. Eligible loans include “Direct Loans, FFEL
loans held by the Department or subject to collection by a guaranty
agency, and Perkins Loans held by the Department.”
Ibid. The Department of Education estimates that about 43
million borrowers qualify for relief, and the Congressional Budget
Office estimates that the plan will cancel about $430 billion in
debt principal. See App. 119; CBO Letter 3.

															B

															Six States moved for a preliminary injunction,
claiming that the plan exceeded the Secretary’s statutory
authority. The District Court held that none of the States had
standing to challenge the plan and dismissed the suit. ___
F. Supp. 3d ___ (ED Mo. 2022). The States appealed, and the
Eighth Circuit issued a nationwide preliminary injunction pending
resolution of the appeal. The court concluded that Missouri likely
had standing through the Missouri Higher Education Loan Authority
(MOHELA or Authority), a public corporation that holds and services
student loans. 52 F. 4th 1044 (2022). It further concluded
that the State’s challenge raised “substantial”
questions on the merits and that the equities favored maintaining
the status quo pending further review. Id., at 1048
(internal quotation marks omitted).

															With the plan on pause, the Secretary asked this
Court to vacate the injunction or to grant certiorari before
judgment, “to avoid prolonging this uncertainty for the
millions of affected borrowers.” Application 4. We granted
the petition and set the case for expedited argument. 598
U. S. ___ (2022).

															II

															Before addressing the legality of the
Secretary’s program, we must first ensure that the States
have standing to challenge it. Under Article III of the
Constitution, a plaintiff needs a “personal stake” in
the case. TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, 594
U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 7). That is, the plaintiff
must have suffered an injury in fact—a concrete and imminent
harm to a legally protected interest, like property or
money—that is fairly traceable to the challenged conduct and
likely to be redressed by the lawsuit. Lujan v. Defenders
of Wildlife, 504 U.S.
555, 560–561 (1992). If at least one plaintiff has
standing, the suit may proceed. Rumsfeld v. Forum for
Academic and Institutional Rights, Inc., 547 U.S.
47, 52, n. 2 (2006). Because we conclude that the
Secretary’s plan harms MOHELA and thereby directly injures
Missouri—conferring standing on that State—we need not
consider the other theories of standing raised by the States.

															Missouri created MOHELA as a nonprofit
government corporation to participate in the student loan market.
Mo. Rev. Stat. §173.360 (2016). The Authority owns over $1
billion in FFELs. MOHELA, FY 2022 Financial Statement 9 (Financial
Statement). It also services nearly $150 billion worth of federal
loans, having been hired by the Department of Education to collect
payments and provide customer service to borrowers. Id., at
4, 8. MOHELA receives an administrative fee for each of the five
million federal accounts it services, totaling $88.9 million in
revenue last year alone. Ibid.

															Under the Secretary’s plan, roughly half
of all federal borrowers would have their loans completely
discharged. App. 119. MOHELA could no longer service those closed
accounts, costing it, by Missouri’s estimate, $44 million a
year in fees that it otherwise would have earned under its contract
with the Department of Education. Brief for Respondents 16. This
financial harm is an injury in fact directly traceable to the
Secretary’s plan, as both the Government and the dissent
concede. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 18; post, at 5
(Kagan, J., dissenting).

															The plan’s harm to MOHELA is also a harm
to Missouri. MOHELA is a “public instrumentality” of
the State. Mo. Rev. Stat. §173.360. Missouri established the
Authority to perform the “essential public function” of
helping Missourians access student loans needed to pay for college.
Ibid.; see Todd v. Curators of University of
Missouri, 347 Mo. 460, 464, 147 S.W.2d 1063, 1064 (1941)
(“Our constitution recognizes higher education as a
governmental function.”). To fulfill this public purpose, the
Authority is empowered by the State to invest in or finance student
loans, including by issuing bonds.
§§173.385(1)(6)–(7). It may also service loans and
collect “reasonable fees” for doing so.
§§173.385(1)(12), (18). Its profits help fund education
in Missouri: MOHELA has provided $230 million for development
projects at Missouri colleges and universities and almost $300
million in grants and scholarships for Missouri students. Financial
Statement 10, 20.

															The Authority is subject to the State’s
supervision and control. Its board consists of two state officials
and five members appointed by the Governor and approved by the
Senate. §173.360. The Governor can remove any board member for
cause. Ibid. MOHELA must provide annual financial reports to
the Missouri Department of Education, detailing its income,
expenditures, and assets. §173.445. The Authority is therefore
“directly answerable” to the State. Casualty
Reciprocal Exchange v. Missouri Employers Mut. Ins. Co.,

956 S.W.2d 249, 254 (Mo. 1997). The State “set[s] the
terms of its existence,” and only the State “can
abolish [MOHELA] and set the terms of its dissolution.”
Id., at 254–255.

															By law and function, MOHELA is an
instrumentality of Missouri: It was created by the State to further
a public purpose, is governed by state officials and state
appointees, reports to the State, and may be dissolved by the
State. The Secretary’s plan will cut MOHELA’s revenues,
impairing its efforts to aid Missouri college students. This
acknowledged harm to MOHELA in the performance of its public
function is necessarily a direct injury to Missouri itself.

															We came to a similar conclusion 70 years ago in
Arkansas v. Texas, 346 U.S.
368 (1953). Arkansas sought to invoke our original jurisdiction
in a suit against Texas, claiming that Texas had wrongfully
interfered with a contract between the University of Arkansas and a
Texas charity. Id., at 369. Texas argued that the suit could
not proceed because the University did “not stand in the
shoes of the State.” Id., at 370. The harm to the
University, as Texas saw it, was not a harm to Arkansas sufficient
for the State to sue in its own name.

															We disagreed. We recognized that “Arkansas
must, of course, represent an interest of her own and not merely
that of her citizens or corporations.” Ibid. But we
concluded that Arkansas was in fact seeking to protect its
own interests because the University was “an official
state instrumentality.” Ibid. The State had labeled
the University “an instrument of the state in the performance
of a governmental work.” Ibid. (internal quotation
marks omitted). The University served a public purpose, acting as
the State’s “agen[t] in the educational field.”
Id., at 371. The University had been “created by the
Arkansas legislature,” was “governed by a Board of
Trustees appointed by the Governor with consent of the
Senate,” and “report[ed] all of its expenditures to the
legislature.” Id., at 370. In short, the University
was an instrumentality of the State, and “any injury under
the contract to the University [was] an injury to Arkansas.”
Ibid. So too here. Because the Authority is part of
Missouri, the State does not seek to “rely on injuries
suffered by others.” Post, at 2 (opinion of Kagan,
J.). It aims to remedy its own.

															The Secretary and the dissent assert that
MOHELA’s injuries should not count as Missouri’s
because MOHELA, as a public corporation, has a legal personality
separate from the State. Every government corporation has such a
distinct personality; it is a corporation, after all, “with
the powers to hold and sell property and to sue and be sued.”
First Nat. City Bank v. Banco Para el Comercio Exterior
de Cuba, 462 U.S.
611, 624 (1983). Yet such an instrumentality—created and
operated to fulfill a public function—nonetheless remains
“(for many purposes at least) part of the Government
itself.” Lebron v. National Railroad Passenger
Corporation, 513 U.S.
374, 397 (1995).

															In Lebron, Amtrak was sued for refusing
to display a political advertisement on a billboard at one of its
stations. Id., at 376–377. Amtrak argued that it was
not subject to the First Amendment because it was a corporation
separate from the Federal Government. See id., at
392. Congress had even specified in its authorizing statute that
Amtrak was not “an agency or establishment of the United
States Government.” Id., at 391 (quoting 84Stat.
1330). Despite this disclaimer, we held that Amtrak remained
subject to the First Amendment because it functioned as an
instrumentality of the Federal Government, “created by a
special statute, explicitly for the furtherance of federal
governmental goals” of ensuring that the American public had
access to passenger trains. Lebron, 513 U. S., at 397.
Its board was appointed by the President, and it had to submit
annual reports to the President and Congress. Id., at
385–386. Having been “established and organized under
federal law for the very purpose of pursuing federal governmental
objectives, under the direction and control of federal governmental
appointees,” Amtrak could not disclaim that it was
“part of the Government.” Id., at 398, 400.

															We reiterated the point in Department of
Transportation v. Association of American Railroads, 575
U.S. 43 (2015). There, railroads argued that giving Amtrak
regulatory power was an unconstitutional delegation of government
authority to a private entity. Id., at 49–50. We
rejected that contention, noting that “Amtrak was created by
the Government, is controlled by the Government, and operates for
the Government’s benefit.” Id., at 53. It was
therefore acting “as a governmental entity” in
exercising that regulatory power. Id., at 54.

															That principle holds true here. The Secretary
and the dissent contend that because MOHELA can sue on its own
behalf, it—not Missouri—must be the one to sue. But in
Arkansas, 346 U.S.
368, the University of Arkansas could have asserted its rights
under the contract on its own. The University’s governing
statute made it “a body politic and corporate,” with
“all the powers of a corporate body,” Ark. Stat.
§80–2804 (1887)—including the power to sue and be
sued on its own behalf, see HRR Arkansas, Inc. v. River
City Contractors, Inc., 350 Ark. 420, 427, 87 S.W.3d 232, 237
(2002); see, e.g., Board of Trustees, Univ. of Ark.
v. Pulaski County, 229 Ark. 370, 
315 S.W.2d 879 (1958). We permitted Arkansas to bring an
original suit all the same. Where a State has been harmed in
carrying out its responsibilities, the fact that it chose to
exercise its authority through a public corporation it created and
controls does not bar the State from suing to remedy that harm
itself.[3]

															The Secretary’s plan harms MOHELA in the
performance of its public function and so directly harms the State
that created and controls MOHELA. Missouri thus has suffered an
injury in fact sufficient to give it standing to challenge the
Secretary’s plan. With Article III satisfied, we turn to the
merits.

															III

															The Secretary asserts that the HEROES Act
grants him the authority to cancel $430 billion of student loan
principal. It does not. We hold today that the Act allows the
Secretary to “waive or modify” existing statutory or
regulatory provisions applicable to financial assistance programs
under the Education Act, not to rewrite that statute from the
ground up.

															A

															The HEROES Act authorizes the Secretary to
“waive or modify any statutory or regulatory provision
applicable to the student financial assistance programs under title
IV of the [Education Act] as the Secretary deems necessary in
connection with a war or other military operation or national
emergency.” 20 U. S. C. §1098bb(a)(1). That
power has limits. To begin with, statutory permission to
“modify” does not authorize “basic and
fundamental changes in the scheme” designed by Congress.
MCI Telecommunications Corp. v. American Telephone &
Telegraph Co., 512 U.S.
218, 225 (1994). Instead, that term carries “a
connotation of increment or limitation,” and must be read to
mean “to change moderately or in minor fashion.”
Ibid. That is how the word is ordinarily used. See,
e.g., Webster’s Third New International Dictionary
1952 (2002) (defining “modify” as “to make more
temperate and less extreme,” “to limit or restrict the
meaning of,” or “to make minor changes in the form or
structure of [or] alter without transforming”). The legal
definition is no different. Black’s Law Dictionary 1203 (11th
ed. 2019) (giving the first definition of “modify” as
“[t]o make somewhat different; to make small changes
to,” and the second as “[t]o make more moderate or less
sweeping”). The authority to “modify” statutes
and regulations allows the Secretary to make modest adjustments and
additions to existing provisions, not transform them.

															The Secretary’s previous invocations of
the HEROES Act illustrate this point. Prior to the COVID–19
pandemic, “modifications” issued under the Act
implemented only minor changes, most of which were procedural.
Examples include reducing the number of tax forms borrowers are
required to file, extending time periods in which borrowers must
take certain actions, and allowing oral rather than written
authorizations. See 68 Fed. Reg. 69314–69316.

															Here, the Secretary purported to “modif[y]
the provisions of ” two statutory sections and three
related regulations governing student loans. 87 Fed. Reg. 61514.
The affected statutory provisions granted the Secretary the power
to “discharge [a] borrower’s liability,” or pay
the remaining principal on a loan, under certain narrowly
prescribed circumstances. 20 U. S. C. §§1087,
1087dd(g)(1). Those circumstances were limited to a
borrower’s death, disability, or bankruptcy; a school’s
false certification of a borrower or failure to refund loan
proceeds as required by law; and a borrower’s inability to
complete an educational program due to closure of the school. See
§§1087(a)–(d), 1087dd(g). The corresponding
regulatory provisions detailed rules and procedures for such
discharges. They also defined the terms of the Government’s
public service loan forgiveness program and provided for discharges
when schools commit malfeasance. See 34 CFR §§682.402,
685.212; 34 CFR pt. 674, subpt. D.

															The Secretary’s new
“modifications” of these provisions were not
“moderate” or “minor.” Instead, they
created a novel and fundamentally different loan forgiveness
program. The new program vests authority in the Department of
Education to discharge up to $10,000 for every borrower with income
below $125,000 and up to $20,000 for every such borrower who has
received a Pell Grant. 87 Fed. Reg. 61514. No prior limitation on
loan forgiveness is left standing. Instead, every borrower within
the specified income cap automatically qualifies for debt
cancellation, no matter their circumstances. The Department of
Education estimates that the program will cover 98.5% of all
borrowers. See Dept. of Ed., White House Fact Sheet: The Biden
Administration’s Plan for Student Debt Relief Could Benefit
Tens of Millions of Borrowers in All Fifty States (Sept. 20, 2022).
From a few narrowly delineated situations specified by Congress,
the Secretary has expanded forgiveness to nearly every borrower in
the country.

															The Secretary’s plan has
“modified” the cited provisions only in the same sense
that “the French Revolution ‘modified’ the status
of the French nobility”—it has abolished them and
supplanted them with a new regime entirely. MCI, 512
U. S., at 228. Congress opted to make debt forgiveness
available only in a few particular exigent circumstances; the power
to modify does not permit the Secretary to “convert that
approach into its opposite” by creating a new program
affecting 43 million Americans and $430 billion in federal debt.
Descamps v. United States, 570
U.S. 254, 274 (2013). Labeling the Secretary’s plan a
mere “modification” does not lessen its effect, which
is in essence to allow the Secretary unfettered discretion to
cancel student loans. It is “highly unlikely that
Congress” authorized such a sweeping loan cancellation
program “through such a subtle device as permission to
‘modify.’ ” MCI, 512 U. S., at
231.

															The Secretary responds that the Act authorizes
him to “waive” legal provisions as well as modify
them—and that this additional term “grant[s] broader
authority” than would “modify” alone. But the
Secretary’s invocation of the waiver power here does not
remotely resemble how it has been used on prior occasions.
Previously, waiver under the HEROES Act was straightforward: the
Secretary identified a particular legal requirement and waived it,
making compliance no longer necessary. For instance, on one
occasion the Secretary waived the requirement that a student
provide a written request for a leave of absence. See 77 Fed. Reg.
59314. On another, he waived the regulatory provisions requiring
schools and guaranty agencies to attempt collection of defaulted
loans for the time period in which students were affected
individuals. See 68 Fed. Reg. 69316.

															Here, the Secretary does not identify any
provision that he is actually waiving.[4] No specific provision of the Education Act establishes
an obligation on the part of student borrowers to pay back the
Government. So as the Government concedes,
“waiver”—as used in the HEROES Act—cannot
refer to “waiv[ing] loan balances” or “waiving
the obligation to repay” on the part of a borrower. Tr. of
Oral Arg. 9, 64. Contrast 20 U. S. C.
§1091b(b)(2)(D) (allowing the Secretary to “waive the
amounts that students are required to return” in specified
circumstances of overpayment by the Government). Because the
Secretary cannot waive a particular provision or provisions to
achieve the desired result, he is forced to take a more circuitous
approach, one that avoids any need to show compliance with the
statutory limitation on his authority. He simply “waiv[es]
the elements of the discharge and cancellation provisions that are
inapplicable in this [debt cancellation] program that would limit
eligibility to other contexts.” Tr. of Oral Arg.
64–65.

															Yet even that expansive conception of waiver
cannot justify the Secretary’s plan, which does far more than
relax existing legal requirements. The plan specifies particular
sums to be forgiven and income-based eligibility requirements. The
addition of these new and substantially different provisions cannot
be said to be a “waiver” of the old in any meaningful
sense. Recognizing this, the Secretary acknowledges that waiver
alone is not enough; after waiving whatever
“inapplicable” law would bar his debt cancellation
plan, he says, he then “modif[ied] the provisions to bring
[them] in line with this program.” Id., at 65. So in
the end, the Secretary’s plan relies on modifications all the
way down. And as we have explained, the word “modify”
simply cannot bear that load.

															The Secretary and the dissent go on to argue
that the power to “waive or modify” is greater than the
sum of its parts. Because waiver allows the Secretary “to
eliminate legal obligations in their entirety,” the argument
runs, the combination of “waive or modify” allows him
“to reduce them to any extent short of
waiver”—even if the power to “modify”
ordinarily does not stretch that far. Reply Brief 16–17
(internal quotation marks omitted). But the Secretary’s
program cannot be justified by such sleight of hand. The Secretary
has not truly waived or modified the provisions in the Education
Act authorizing specific and limited forgiveness of student loans.
Those provisions remain safely intact in the U. S. Code, where
they continue to operate in full force. What the Secretary has
actually done is draft a new section of the Education Act from
scratch by “waiving” provisions root and branch and
then filling the empty space with radically new text.

															Lastly, the Secretary points to a procedural
provision in the HEROES Act. The Act directs the Secretary to
publish a notice in the Federal Register “includ[ing] the
terms and conditions to be applied in lieu of such statutory
and regulatory provisions” as the Secretary has waived or
modified. 20 U. S. C. §1098bb(b)(2) (emphasis
added). In the Secretary’s view, that language authorizes
“both deleting and then adding back in, waiving and then
putting his own requirements in”—a sort of “red
penciling” of the existing law. Tr. of Oral Arg. 65; see also
Reply Brief 17.

															Section 1098bb(b)(2) is, however, “a
wafer-thin reed on which to rest such sweeping power.”
Alabama Assn. of Realtors v. Department of Health and
Human Servs., 594 U. S. ___, ___ (2021)
(per curiam) (slip op., at 7). The provision is no more
than it appears to be: a humdrum reporting requirement. Rather than
implicitly granting the Secretary authority to draft new
substantive statutory provisions at will, it simply imposes the
obligation to report any waivers and modifications he has made.
Section 1098bb(b)(2) suggests that “waivers and
modifications” includes additions. The dissent accordingly
reads the statute as authorizing any degree of change or any new
addition, “from modest to substantial”—and
nothing in the dissent’s analysis suggests stopping at
“substantial.” Post, at 20. Because the
Secretary “does not have to leave gaping holes” when he
waives provisions, the argument runs, it follows that any
replacement terms the Secretary uses to fill those holes must be
lawful. Ibid. But the Secretary’s ability to add new
terms “in lieu of ” the old is limited to his
authority to “modify” existing law. As with any other
modification issued under the Act, no new term or condition
reported pursuant to §1098bb(b)(2) may distort the fundamental
nature of the provision it alters.[5]

															The Secretary’s comprehensive debt
cancellation plan cannot fairly be called a waiver—it not
only nullifies existing provisions, but augments and expands them
dramatically. It cannot be mere modification, because it
constitutes “effectively the introduction of a whole new
regime.” MCI, 512 U. S., at 234. And it cannot be
some combination of the two, because when the Secretary seeks to
add to existing law, the fact that he has
“waived” certain provisions does not give him a free
pass to avoid the limits inherent in the power to
“modify.” However broad the meaning of “waive or
modify,” that language cannot authorize the kind of
exhaustive rewriting of the statute that has taken place
here.[6]

															B

															In a final bid to elide the statutory text,
the Secretary appeals to congressional purpose. “The whole
point of ” the HEROES Act, the Government contends,
“is to ensure that in the face of a national emergency that
is causing financial harm to borrowers, the Secretary can do
something.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 55. And that
“something” was left deliberately vague because
Congress intended “to grant substantial discretion to the
Secretary to respond to unforeseen emergencies.” Reply Brief
22, n. 3. So the unprecedented nature of the Secretary’s
debt cancellation plan only “reflects the pandemic’s
unparalleled scope.” Brief for Petitioners 52 (Brief for
United States).

															The dissent agrees. “Emergencies, after
all, are emergencies,” it reasons, and “more serious
measures” must be expected “in response to more serious
problems.” Post, at 25, 28. The dissent’s
interpretation of the HEROES Act would grant unlimited power to the
Secretary, not only to modify or waive certain provisions but to
“fill the holes that action creates with new
terms”—no matter how drastic those terms might
be—and to “alter [provisions] to the extent [he]
think[s] appropriate,” up to and including “the most
substantial kind of change” imaginable. Post, at 16,
19–20. That is inconsistent with the statutory language and
past practice under the statute.

															The question here is not whether something
should be done; it is who has the authority to do it. Our recent
decision in West Virginia v. EPA involved similar
concerns over the exercise of administrative power. 597 U. S.
___ (2022). That case involved the EPA’s claim that the Clean
Air Act authorized it to impose a nationwide cap on carbon dioxide
emissions. Given “the ‘history and the breadth of the
authority that [the agency] ha[d] asserted,’ and the
‘economic and political significance’ of that
assertion,” we found that there was
“ ‘reason to hesitate before concluding that
Congress’ meant to confer such authority.” Id.,
at ___ (slip op., at 17) (quoting FDA v. Brown &
Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U.S.
120, 159–160 (2000); first alteration in original).

															So too here, where the Secretary of Education
claims the authority, on his own, to release 43 million borrowers
from their obligations to repay $430 billion in student loans. The
Secretary has never previously claimed powers of this magnitude
under the HEROES Act. As we have already noted, past waivers and
modifications issued under the Act have been extremely modest and
narrow in scope. The Act has been used only once before to waive or
modify a provision related to debt cancellation: In 2003, the
Secretary waived the requirement that borrowers seeking loan
forgiveness under the Education Act’s public service
discharge provisions “perform uninterrupted, otherwise
qualifying service for a specified length of time (for example, one
year) or for consecutive periods of time, such as 5 consecutive
years.” 68 Fed. Reg. 69317. That waiver simply eased the
requirement that service be uninterrupted to qualify for the public
service loan forgiveness program. In sum, “[n]o regulation
premised on” the HEROES Act “has even begun to approach
the size or scope” of the Secretary’s program.
Alabama Assn., 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at
7).[7]

															Under the Government’s reading of the
HEROES Act, the Secretary would enjoy virtually unlimited power to
rewrite the Education Act. This would “effec[t] a
‘fundamental revision of the statute, changing it from [one
sort of] scheme of . . . regulation’ into an
entirely different kind,” West Virginia, 597
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 24) (quoting MCI, 512
U. S., at 231)—one in which the Secretary may
unilaterally define every aspect of federal student financial aid,
provided he determines that recipients have “suffered direct
economic hardship as a direct result of a . . . national
emergency.” 20 U. S. C. §1098ee(2)(D).

															The “ ‘economic and political
significance’ ” of the Secretary’s action is
staggering by any measure. West Virginia, 597 U. S., at
___ (slip op., at 17) (quoting Brown & Williamson, 529
U. S., at 160). Practically every student borrower benefits,
regardless of circumstances. A budget model issued by the Wharton
School of the University of Pennsylvania estimates that the program
will cost taxpayers “between $469 billion and $519
billion,” depending on the total number of borrowers
ultimately covered. App. 108. That is ten times the “economic
impact” that we found significant in concluding that an
eviction moratorium implemented by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention triggered analysis under the major questions
doctrine. Alabama Assn., 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op.,
at 6). It amounts to nearly one-third of the Government’s
$1.7 trillion in annual discretionary spending. Congressional
Budget Office, The Federal Budget in Fiscal Year 2022. There is no
serious dispute that the Secretary claims the authority to exercise
control over “a significant portion of the American
economy.” Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA,
573 U.S.
302, 324 (2014) (quoting Brown & Williamson, 529
U. S., at 159).

															The dissent is correct that this is a case about
one branch of government arrogating to itself power belonging to
another. But it is the Executive seizing the power of the
Legislature. The Secretary’s assertion of administrative
authority has “conveniently enabled [him] to enact a
program” that Congress has chosen not to enact itself.
West Virginia, 597 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 27).
Congress is not unaware of the challenges facing student borrowers.
“More than 80 student loan forgiveness bills and other
student loan legislation” were considered by Congress during
its 116th session alone. M. Kantrowitz, Year in Review: Student
Loan Forgiveness Legislation, Forbes, Dec. 24, 2020.[8] And the discussion is not confined to the
halls of Congress. Student loan cancellation “raises
questions that are personal and emotionally charged, hitting
fundamental issues about the structure of the economy.” J.
Stein, Biden Student Debt Plan Fuels Broader Debate Over Forgiving
Borrowers, Washington Post, Aug. 31, 2022.

															The sharp debates generated by the
Secretary’s extraordinary program stand in stark contrast to
the unanimity with which Congress passed the HEROES Act. The
dissent asks us to “[i]magine asking the enacting Congress:
Can the Secretary use his powers to give borrowers more relief when
an emergency has inflicted greater harm?” Post, at
27–28. The dissent “can’t believe” the
answer would be no. Post, at 28. But imagine instead asking
the enacting Congress a more pertinent question: “Can the
Secretary use his powers to abolish $430 billion in student loans,
completely canceling loan balances for 20 million borrowers, as a
pandemic winds down to its end?” We can’t believe the
answer would be yes. Congress did not unanimously pass the HEROES
Act with such power in mind. “A decision of such magnitude
and consequence” on a matter of “ ‘earnest
and profound debate across the country’ ” must
“res[t] with Congress itself, or an agency acting pursuant to
a clear delegation from that representative body.” West
Virginia, 597 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 28, 31)
(quoting Gonzales v. Oregon, 546
U.S. 243, 267–268 (2006)). As then-Speaker of the House
Nancy Pelosi explained:

															“People think that the President of
the United States has the power for debt forgiveness. He does not.
He can postpone. He can delay. But he does not have that power.
That has to be an act of Congress.” Press Conference, Office
of the Speaker of the House (July 28, 2021).

															Aside from reiterating its interpretation of the
statute, the dissent offers little to rebut our conclusion that
“indicators from our previous major questions cases are
present” here. Post, at 15 (Barrett, J., concurring).
The dissent insists that “[s]tudent loans are in the
Secretary’s wheelhouse.” Post, at 26 (opinion of
Kagan, J.). But in light of the sweeping and unprecedented impact
of the Secretary’s loan forgiveness program, it would seem
more accurate to describe the program as being in the
“wheelhouse” of the House and Senate Committees on
Appropriations. Rather than dispute the extent of that impact, the
dissent chooses to mount a frontal assault on what it styles
“the Court’s made-up major questions doctrine.”
Post, at 29–30. But its attempt to relitigate West
Virginia is misplaced. As we explained in that case, while the
major questions “label” may be relatively recent, it
refers to “an identifiable body of law that has developed
over a series of significant cases” spanning decades. West
Virginia, 597 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 20). At any
rate, “the issue now is not whether [West Virginia] is
correct. The question is whether that case is distinguishable from
this one. And it is not.” Collins v. Yellen,
594 U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (Kagan, J., concurring in part and
concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 2).

															The Secretary, for his part, acknowledges that
West Virginia is the law. Brief for United States
47–48. But he objects that its principles apply only in cases
concerning “agency action[s] involv[ing] the power to
regulate, not the provision of government benefits.” Reply
Brief 21. In the Government’s view, “there are fewer
reasons to be concerned” in cases involving benefits, which
do not impose “profound burdens” on individual rights
or cause “regulatory effects that might prompt a note of
caution in other contexts involving exercises of emergency
powers.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 61.

															This Court has never drawn the line the
Secretary suggests—and for good reason. Among
Congress’s most important authorities is its control of the
purse. U. S. Const., Art. I, §9, cl. 7; see also
Office of Personnel Management v. Richmond, 496 U.S.
414, 427 (1990) (the Appropriations Clause is “a most
useful and salutary check upon profusion and extravagance”
(internal quotation marks omitted)). It would be odd to think that
separation of powers concerns evaporate simply because the
Government is providing monetary benefits rather than imposing
obligations. As we observed in West Virginia, experience
shows that major questions cases “have arisen from all
corners of the administrative state,” and administrative
action resulting in the conferral of benefits is no exception to
that rule. 597 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 17). In King
v. Burwell, 576 U.S. 473 (2015), we declined to defer to the
Internal Revenue Service’s interpretation of a healthcare
statute, explaining that the provision at issue affected
“billions of dollars of spending each year and
. . . the price of health insurance for millions of
people.” Id., at 485. Because the interpretation of
the provision was “a question of deep ‘economic and
political significance’ that is central to [the] statutory
scheme,” we said, we would not assume that Congress entrusted
that task to an agency without a clear statement to that effect.
Ibid. (quoting Utility Air, 573 U. S., at 324).
That the statute at issue involved government benefits made no
difference in King, and it makes no difference here.

															All this leads us to conclude that “[t]he
basic and consequential tradeoffs” inherent in a mass debt
cancellation program “are ones that Congress would likely
have intended for itself.” West Virginia, 597
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 26). In such circumstances, we
have required the Secretary to “point to ‘clear
congressional authorization’ ” to justify the
challenged program. Id., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 19, 28)
(quoting Utility Air, 573 U. S., at 324). And as we
have already shown, the HEROES Act provides no authorization for
the Secretary’s plan even when examined using the ordinary
tools of statutory interpretation—let alone “clear
congressional authorization” for such a program.[9]

															*  *  *

															It has become a disturbing feature of some
recent opinions to criticize the decisions with which they disagree
as going beyond the proper role of the judiciary. Today, we have
concluded that an instrumentality created by Missouri, governed by
Missouri, and answerable to Missouri is indeed part of Missouri;
that the words “waive or modify” do not mean
“completely rewrite”; and that our precedent—old
and new—requires that Congress speak clearly before a
Department Secretary can unilaterally alter large sections of the
American economy. We have employed the traditional tools of
judicial decisionmaking in doing so. Reasonable minds may disagree
with our analysis—in fact, at least three do. See
post, p. ___ (Kagan, J., dissenting). We do not mistake this
plainly heartfelt disagreement for disparagement. It is important
that the public not be misled either. Any such misperception would
be harmful to this institution and our country.

															The judgment of the District Court for the
Eastern District of Missouri is reversed, and the case is remanded
for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. The
Government’s application to vacate the Eighth Circuit’s
injunction is denied as moot.

															

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 Like its 2001
predecessor, the HEROES Act enjoyed virtually unanimous bipartisan
support at the time of its enactment, passing by a 421-to-1 vote in
the House of Representatives and a unanimous voice vote in the
Senate. See 149 Cong. Rec. 7952–7953 (2003); id., at
20809; 147 Cong. Rec. 20396 (2001); id., at
26292–26293. The single dissenting Representative later
voiced his support for the Act, explaining that he “meant to
vote ‘yea.’ ” 149 Cong. Rec. 8559 (statement
of Rep. Miller).
2
 A borrower filing
“jointly or as a Head of Household, or as a qualifying
widow(er),” qualifies for loan cancellation with an adjusted
gross income lower than $250,000. 87 Fed. Reg. 61514.
3
 The dissent, for all its
attempts to cabin these precedents, cites no precedents of its own
addressing a State’s standing to sue for a harm to its
instrumentality. The dissent offers only a state court case
involving a different public corporation, in which the Missouri
Supreme Court said that the corporation was separate from the State
for the purposes of a state ban on “the lending of the credit
of the state.” Menorah Medical Center v. Health and
Ed. Facilities Auth., 
584 S.W.2d 73, 78 (1979) (plurality opinion). But as the
dissent recognizes, a public corporation can count as part of the
State for some but not “other purposes.” Post,
at 11, and n. 1. The Missouri Supreme Court said nothing about, and
had no reason to address, whether an injury to that public
corporation was a harm to the State.
4
 While the
Secretary’s notice published in the Federal Register refers
to “waivers and modifications” generally, see 87 Fed.
Reg. 61512–61514, and while two sentences use the somewhat
ambiguous phrase “[t]his waiver,” id., at 61514,
the notice identifies no specific legal provision as having been
“waived” by the Secretary.
5
 The dissent asserts that
our decision today will control any challenge to the
Secretary’s temporary suspensions of loan repayments and
interest accrual. Post, at 21–22. We decide only the
case before us. A challenge to the suspensions may involve
different considerations with respect to both standing and the
merits.
6
 The States further
contend that the Secretary’s program violates the requirement
in the HEROES Act that any waivers or modifications be
“necessary to ensure that . . . affected
individuals are not placed in a worse position financially in
relation to” federal financial assistance. 20
U. S. C. §1098bb(a)(2)(A); see Brief for Respondents
39–44. While our decision does not rest upon that reasoning,
we note that the Secretary faces a daunting task in showing that
cancellation of debt principal is “necessary to ensure”
that borrowers are not placed in “worse position[s]
financially in relation to” their loans, especially given the
Government’s prior determination that pausing interest
accrual and loan repayments would achieve that end.
7
 The Secretary also cites
a prior invocation of the HEROES Act waiving the requirement that
borrowers must repay prior overpayments of certain grant funds. See
Brief for United States 41; 68 Fed. Reg. 69314. But Congress had
already limited borrower liability in such cases to exclude
overpayments in amounts up to “50 percent of the total grant
assistance received by the student” for the period at issue,
so the Secretary’s waiver had only a modest effect. 20
U. S. C. §1091b(b)(2)(C)(i)(II). And that waiver
simply held the Government responsible for its own errors
when it had mistakenly disbursed undeserved grant
funds.
8
 Resolutions were also
introduced in 2020 and 2021 “[c]alling on the President
. . . to take executive action to broadly cancel Federal
student loan debt.” See S. Res. 711, 116th Cong., 2d Sess.
(2020); S. Res. 46, 117th Cong., 1st Sess. (2021). Those
resolutions failed to reach a vote.
9
 The dissent complains
that our application of the major questions doctrine is a
“tell” revealing that “ ‘normal’
statutory interpretation cannot sustain [our] decision.”
Post, at 23, 30. Not so. As we have explained, the statutory
text alone precludes the Secretary’s program. Today’s
opinion simply reflects this Court’s familiar practice of
providing multiple grounds to support its conclusions. See,
e.g., Kucana v. Holder, 558 U.S.
233, 243–252 (2010) (interpreting the text of a federal
immigration statute in the first instance, then citing the
“presumption favoring judicial review of administrative
action” as an additional sufficient basis for the
Court’s decision). The fact that multiple grounds support a
result is usually regarded as a strength, not a
weakness.


