::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-58
::decision_name::  United States v. Texas
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Barrett
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–58

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, et al., PETITIONERS
v. TEXAS, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 23, 2023]

															

															Justice Barrett, with whom Justice Gorsuch
joins, concurring in the judgment.

															I agree with the Court that the States lack
standing to challenge the Federal Government’s Guidelines for
the enforcement of immigration law. But I reach that conclusion for
a different reason: The States failed to show that the District
Court could order effective relief. Justice Gorsuch ably explains
why that is so. Ante, p. 1 (opinion concurring in
judgment). And because redressability is an essential element of
Article III standing, the District Court did not have
jurisdiction.

															The Court charts a different path. In its view,
this case can be resolved based on what it calls the
“fundamental Article III principle” that
“ ‘a citizen lacks standing to contest the
policies of the prosecuting authority when he himself is neither
prosecuted nor threatened with prosecution.’ ”
Ante, at 1 (quoting Linda R. S. v. Richard D.,
410 U.S.
614, 619 (1973)). In other words, the Court says, the States
have not asserted a “ ‘judicially cognizable
interest’ ” in this case. Ante, at 5.
Respectfully, I would not take this route.

															I

															To begin with, I am skeptical that Linda R.
S. suffices to resolve this dispute. First, the Court reads
that decision too broadly. Consider the facts. The “mother of
an illegitimate child” sued in federal court,
“apparently seek[ing] an injunction running against the
district attorney forbidding him from declining prosecution”
of the child’s father for failure to pay child support. 410
U. S., at 614–616. She objected, on equal protection
grounds, to the State’s view that “fathers of
illegitimate children” were not within the ambit of the
relevant child-neglect statute. Id., at 616.

															We agreed that the plaintiff “suffered an
injury stemming from the failure of her child’s father to
contribute support payments.” Id., at 618. But if the
plaintiff “were granted the requested relief, it would result
only in the jailing of the child’s father.”
Ibid. Needless to say, the prospect that prosecution would
lead to child-support payments could, “at best, be termed
only speculative.” Ibid. For this reason, we held that
the plaintiff lacked standing. Only then, after resolving the
standing question on redressability grounds, did we add that
“a private citizen lacks a judicially cognizable interest in
the prosecution or nonprosecution of another.” Id., at
619. In short, we denied standing in Linda R. S. because it
was speculative that the plaintiff ’s requested relief
would redress her asserted injury, not because she failed to allege
one. See Duke Power Co. v. Carolina Environmental Study
Group, Inc., 438 U.S.
59, 79, n. 24 (1978).

															Viewed properly, Linda R. S. simply
represents a specific application of the general principle that
“when the plaintiff is not himself the object of the
government action or inaction he challenges, standing is not
precluded, but it is ordinarily ‘substantially more
difficult’ to establish” given the causation and
redressability issues that may arise. Lujan v. Defenders
of Wildlife, 504 U.S.
555, 562 (1992). That is true for the States here. I see little
reason to seize on the case’s bonus discussion of whether
“a private citizen” has a “judicially cognizable
interest in the prosecution or nonprosecution of another” to
establish a broad rule of Article III standing. Linda R. S.,
410 U. S., at 619.

															Second, even granting the broad principle the
Court takes from Linda R. S., I doubt that it applies with
full force in this case. Unlike the plaintiff in Linda R.
S., the States do not seek the prosecution of any particular
individual—or even any particular class of individuals. See
ASARCO Inc. v. Kadish, 490 U.S.
605, 624 (1989) (“[F]ederal standing ‘often turns
on the nature and source of the claim
asserted’ ”). In fact, they disclaim any
interest in the prosecution or nonprosecution of noncitizens. See
Brief for Respondents 15; Tr. of Oral Arg. 124–125. They
acknowledge that 8 U. S. C. §1226(c)(1)’s
detention obligation “only applies until” the
Government makes “a decision whether or not to
prosecute.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 100. And they readily concede
that if the Government decides not to prosecute, any detention
obligation imposed by §1226(c)(1) “immediately
ends.” Ibid. The States make similar concessions with
respect to §1231(a)(2). They maintain, for example, that
§1231(a)(2) applies “only where the United States has
used its prosecutorial discretion to bring a notice to appear, to
prosecute that all the way to a final . . . order of
removal.” Id., at 130. But if the Government for any
reason “choose[s] to discontinue proceedings,” the
alleged detention obligation does not attach. Id., at
131.

															The upshot is that the States do not dispute
that the Government can prosecute whomever it wants. They seek,
instead, the temporary detention of certain noncitizens during
elective removal proceedings of uncertain duration. And the
States’ desire to remove the Guidelines’ influence on
the Government’s admittedly broad discretion to enforce
immigration law meaningfully differs from the Linda R. S.
plaintiff ’s desire to channel prosecutorial discretion
toward a particular target. Given all of this, I would not treat
Linda R. S. as the “leading precedent” for
resolving this case. Ante, at 5. In my view, the Court is
striking new ground rather than applying settled principles.

															II

															In addition to its reliance on Linda R.
S., the Court offers several reasons why “federal courts
have not traditionally entertained lawsuits of this kind.”
Ante, at 6. I am skeptical that these reasons are rooted in
Article III standing doctrine.

															Take, for example, the Court’s discussion
of Castle Rock v. Gonzales, 545
U.S. 748 (2005). Ante, at 10. There, we reasoned that
given “[t]he deep-rooted nature of law-enforcement
discretion,” a “true mandate of police action would
require some stronger indication” from the legislature than,
for example, the bare use of the word
“ ‘shall’ ” in a statutory
directive. Castle Rock, 545 U. S., at 761. The Court
today concludes that “no such statute is present in this
case.” Ante, at 10. But Castle Rock is not a
case about Article III standing. It addressed “whether an
individual who has obtained a state-law restraining order has a
constitutionally protected property interest” under the
Fourteenth Amendment “in having the police enforce the
restraining order when they have probable cause to believe it has
been violated.” 545 U. S., at 750–751. I see no
reason to opine on Castle Rock’s application here,
especially given that the parties (correctly) treat Castle
Rock as relevant to the merits of their statutory claims
rather than to the States’ standing to bring them. See
Brief for Petitioners 8; Brief for Respondents 30.

															The Court also invokes “the
Executive’s Article II authority to enforce federal
law.” Ante, at 6. I question whether the
President’s duty to “take Care that the Laws be
faithfully executed,” Art. II, §3, is relevant to
the standing analysis. While it is possible that Article II imposes
justiciability limits on federal courts, it is not clear to me why
any such limit should be expressed through Article III’s
definition of a cognizable injury. Moreover, the Court works the
same magic on the Take Care Clause that it does on Castle
Rock: It takes an issue that entered the case on the merits and
transforms it into one about standing. See ante, at 4
(opinion of Gorsuch, J.)

															The Court leans, too, on principles set forth in
Heckler v. Chaney, 470 U.S.
821 (1985). Ante, at 8, 11. But, again, Heckler
was not about standing. It addressed a different question:
“the extent to which a decision of an administrative agency
to exercise its ‘discretion’ not to undertake certain
enforcement actions is subject to judicial review under the
Administrative Procedure Act.” 470 U. S., at 823; see
also 5 U. S. C. §701(a)(2) (the APA’s
judicial-review provisions do not apply “to the extent”
that “agency action is committed to agency discretion by
law”). Heckler held that “an agency’s
decision not to take enforcement action should be presumed immune
from judicial review under” the APA. 470 U. S., at 832.
But such a decision “is only presumptively unreviewable; the
presumption may be rebutted where the substantive statute has
provided guidelines for the agency to follow in exercising its
enforcement powers.” Id., at 832–833. Whatever
Heckler’s relevance to cases like this one, it does
not establish a principle of Article III standing. And elevating it
to the status of a constitutional rule would transform it from a
case about statutory provisions (that Congress is free to amend) to
one about a constitutional principle (that lies beyond
Congress’s domain). Although the Court notes that
Heckler involved the APA, its conflation of Heckler
with standing doctrine is likely to cause confusion. See
ante, at 8 (analogizing “Article III cases” to
“Administrative Procedure Act cases”).

															*  *  *

															The Court weaves together multiple doctrinal
strands to create a rule that is not only novel, but also in
tension with other decisions. See ante, at 2–4
(opinion of Gorsuch, J.). In my view, this case should be resolved
on the familiar ground that it must be
“ ‘likely,’ as opposed to merely
‘speculative,’ ” that any injury “will
be ‘redressed by a favorable decision.’ ”
Lujan, 504 U. S., at 561. I respectfully concur only in
the judgment.

													
