::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-58
::decision_name::  United States v. Texas
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Gorsuch
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–58

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, et al., PETITIONERS
v. TEXAS, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 23, 2023]

															

															Justice Gorsuch, with whom Justice Thomas and
Justice Barrett join, concurring in the judgment.

															The Court holds that Texas and Louisiana lack
Article III standing to challenge the Department of Homeland
Security’s Guidelines for the Enforcement of Civil
Immigration Law. I agree. But respectfully, I diagnose the
jurisdictional defect differently. The problem here is
redressability.

															I

															Article III vests federal courts with the
power to decide “Cases” and
“Controversies.” Standing doctrine honors the
limitations inherent in this assignment by ensuring judges attend
to actual harms rather than abstract grievances. “If
individuals and groups could invoke the authority of a federal
court to forbid what they dislike for no more reason than they
dislike it, we would risk exceeding the judiciary’s limited
constitutional mandate and infringing on powers committed to other
branches of government.” American Legion v.
American Humanist Assn., 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019)
(Gorsuch, J., concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 3).

															To establish standing to sue in federal court, a
plaintiff must show that it has suffered a concrete and
particularized injury, one that is both traceable to the defendant
and redressable by a court order. See Lujan v. Defenders
of Wildlife, 504 U.S.
555, 560–561 (1992). If a plaintiff fails at any step,
the court cannot reach the merits of the dispute. See Steel
Co. v. Citizens for Better Environment, 523 U.S.
83, 102–104 (1998). This is true whether the plaintiff is
a private person or a State. After all, standing doctrine derives
from Article III, and nothing in that provision suggests a State
may have standing when a similarly situated private party does not.
See Massachusetts v. EPA, 549
U.S. 497, 536–538 (2007) (Roberts, C. J.,
dissenting).

															The Court holds that Texas and Louisiana lack
standing to challenge the Guidelines because “a party lacks a
judicially cognizable interest in the prosecution . . .
of another.” Ante, at 5 (internal quotation marks
omitted). To be sure, the district court found that the Guidelines
have led to an increase in the number of aliens with criminal
convictions and final orders of removal who are released into the
States. 606 F. Supp. 3d 437, 459–463, 467 (SD Tex.
2022). The district court also found that, thanks to this
development, the States have spent, and continue to spend, more
money on law enforcement, incarceration, and social services.
Id., at 463–465, 467. Still, the Court insists,
“[s]everal good reasons explain why” these harms are
insufficient to afford the States standing to challenge the
Guidelines. Ante, at 6.

															I confess to having questions about each of the
reasons the Court offers. Start with its observation that the
States have not pointed to any “historical practice” of
courts ordering the Executive Branch to change its arrest or
prosecution policies. Ante, at 5, 6. The Court is right, of
course, that “history and tradition offer a meaningful guide
to the types of cases that Article III empowers federal courts to
consider.” TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, 594
U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 8) (internal quotation
marks omitted). But, again, the district court found that the
Guidelines impose “significant costs” on the States.
606 F. Supp. 3d, at 495. The Court today does not set aside
this finding as clearly erroneous. Nor does anyone dispute that
even one dollar’s worth of harm is traditionally enough to
“qualify as concrete injur[y] under Article III.”
TransUnion, 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 9); see
also Uzuegbunam v. Preczewski, 592 U. S. ___,
___ (2021) (slip op., at 11). Indeed, this Court has allowed other
States to challenge other Executive Branch policies that indirectly
caused them monetary harms. See, e.g., Department of
Commerce v. New York, 588 U. S. ___, ___–___
(2019) (slip op., at 9–10). So why are these States now
forbidden from doing the same?

															Next, the Court contends that, “when the
Executive Branch elects not to arrest or prosecute, it does
not exercise coercive power over an individual’s liberty or
property.” Ante, at 6. Here again, in principle, I
agree. But if an exercise of coercive power matters so much to the
Article III standing inquiry, how to explain decisions like
Massachusetts v. EPA? There the Court held that
Massachusetts had standing to challenge the federal
government’s decision not to regulate greenhouse gas
emissions from new motor vehicles. See 549 U. S., at
516–526. And what could be less coercive than a decision not
to regulate? In Massachusetts v. EPA, the Court chose
to overlook this difficulty in part because it thought the
State’s claim of standing deserved “special
solicitude.” Id., at 520. I have doubts about that
move. Before Massachusetts v. EPA, the notion that
States enjoy relaxed standing rules “ha[d] no basis in our
jurisprudence.” Id., at 536 (Roberts, C. J.,
dissenting). Nor has “special solicitude” played a
meaningful role in this Court’s decisions in the years since.
Even so, it’s hard not to wonder why the Court says nothing
about “special solicitude” in this case. And it’s
hard not to think, too, that lower courts should just leave that
idea on the shelf in future ones.

															Finally, the Court points to the fact that
Article II vests in the President considerable enforcement
discretion. Ante, at 6–8. So much so that
“courts generally lack meaningful standards for assessing the
propriety of [the Executive Branch’s] enforcement
choices.” Ante, at 7. But almost as soon as the Court
announces this general rule, it adds a caveat, stressing that
“[t]his case concerns only arrest and prosecution
policies.” Ante, at 12, n. 5. It’s a
curious qualification. Article II does not have an Arrest and
Prosecution Clause. It endows the President with the
“executive Power,” §1, cl. 1, and charges him
with “tak[ing] Care” that federal laws are
“faithfully executed,” §3. These provisions give
the President a measure of discretion over the enforcement of
all federal laws, not just those that can lead to arrest and
prosecution. So if the Court means what it says about Article II,
can it mean what it says about the narrowness of its holding?
There’s another curious qualification in the Court’s
opinion too. “[T]he standing calculus might change,” we
are told, “if the Executive Branch wholly abandoned its
statutory responsibilities to make arrests or bring
prosecutions.” Ante, at 11. But the Court declines to
say more than that because “the States have not
advanced” such an argument. Ibid. Is that true,
though? The States have pleaded a claim under the Take Care Clause.
App. 106. Is that not an abdication argument? Did they fail to
plead it properly? Or is the Court simply ignoring it?

															II

															As I see it, the jurisdictional problem the
States face in this case isn’t the lack of a
“judicially cognizable” interest or injury.
Ante, at 5 (internal quotation marks omitted). The States
proved that the Guidelines increase the number of aliens with
criminal convictions and final orders of removal released into the
States. They also proved that, as a result, they spend more money
on everything from law enforcement to healthcare. The problem the
States face concerns something else altogether—a lack of
redressability.

															To establish redressability, a plaintiff must
show from the outset of its suit that its injuries are capable of
being remedied “ ‘by a favorable
decision.’ ” Lujan, 504 U. S., at 561;
see also id., at 570, n. 5 (plurality opinion).
Ordinarily, to remedy harms like those the States demonstrated in
this suit, they would seek an injunction. The injunction would
direct federal officials to detain aliens consistent with what the
States say the immigration laws demand. But even assuming an
injunction like that would redress the States’ injuries, that
form of relief is not available to them.

															It is not available because of 8
U. S. C. §1252(f )(1). There, Congress provided
that “no court (other than the Supreme Court) shall have
jurisdiction or authority to enjoin or restrain the operation
of ” certain immigration laws, including the very laws
the States seek to have enforced in this case. If there were any
doubt about how to construe this command, we resolved it in
Garland v. Aleman Gonzalez, 596 U. S. ___
(2022). In that case, we held that §1252(f )(1)
“prohibits lower courts from . . . order[ing]
federal officials to take or to refrain from taking actions to
enforce, implement, or otherwise carry out the specified statutory
provisions.” Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5). Put simply,
the remedy that would ordinarily have the best chance of redressing
the States’ harms is a forbidden one in this case.

															The district court thought it could sidestep
§1252(f )(1). Instead of issuing an injunction, it
purported to “vacate” the Guidelines pursuant to
§706(2) of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5
U. S. C. §706(2). 606 F. Supp. 3d, at
498–501, and n. 71. Vacatur, as the district court
understood it, is a distinct form of relief that operates directly
on agency action, depriving it of legal force or effect. See
id., at 499–500. And vacatur, the district
court reasoned, does not offend §1252(f )(1), because it
does not entail an order directing any federal official to do
anything. See id., at 501, n. 71. The States embrace
this line of argument before us. Brief for Respondents 43–47;
Tr. of Oral Arg. 75–82.

															It’s a clever workaround, but it
doesn’t succeed. Start with perhaps the simplest reason.
Assume for the moment the district court was right that
§1252(f )(1) does not bar vacatur orders and that
§706(2) authorizes courts to issue them. Even so, a vacatur
order still does nothing to redress the States’ injuries. The
Guidelines merely advise federal officials about how to exercise
their prosecutorial discretion when it comes to deciding which
aliens to prioritize for arrest and removal. A judicial decree
rendering the Guidelines a nullity does nothing to change the fact
that federal officials possess the same underlying prosecutorial
discretion. Nor does such a decree require federal officials to
change how they exercise that discretion in the Guidelines’
absence. It’s a point even the States have acknowledged. Tr.
of Oral Arg. 82–83; see also id., at 75–77,
125.

															Faced with that difficulty, the States offer
this reply. As a practical matter, they say, we can expect federal
officials to alter their arrest and prosecution priorities in light
of a judicial opinion reasoning that the Guidelines are unlawful.
See id., at 80, 82–83. But this doesn’t work
either. Whatever a court may say in an opinion does no more to
compel federal officials to change how they exercise their
prosecutorial discretion than an order vacating the Guidelines. Nor
do we measure redressability by asking whether a court’s
legal reasoning may inspire or shame others into acting
differently. We measure redressability by asking whether a
court’s judgment will remedy the plaintiff ’s
harms. As this Court recently put it: “It is a federal
court’s judgment, not its opinion, that remedies an injury;
thus it is the judgment, not the opinion, that demonstrates
redressability.” Haaland v. Brackeen, 599
U. S. ___, ___ (2023) (slip op., at 32). If the rule were
otherwise, and courts could “simply assume that everyone
. . . will honor the legal rationales that underlie their
decrees, then redressability [would] always exist.”
Franklin v. Massachusetts, 505
U.S. 788, 825 (1992) (Scalia, J., concurring in part and
concurring in judgment).

															Perhaps sensing they have run into yet another
roadblock, the States try one last way around it. Fleetingly, they
direct us to the parenthetical in §1252(f)(1): “(other
than the Supreme Court).” That language, they say, allows
this Court to invoke the All Writs Act, 28 U. S. C.
§1651, to fashion its own injunction. And the possibility that
this Court might award them relief, the States suggest, makes their
injuries redressable after all. See Brief for Respondents 47; cf.
post, at 12 (Alito, J., dissenting).

															It’s an argument that yields more
questions than answers. The parenthetical the States cite is a
“curious” provision, one that “does not appear to
have an analogue elsewhere in the United States Code.”
Biden v. Texas, 597 U. S. ___, ___ (2022)
(Barrett, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 4). Even assuming it
permits this Court to award an injunction when a case comes to us
on review, it does not obviously solve the States’
redressability problem. Normally, after all, a plaintiff must
establish redressability from the outset of the suit. See
Lujan, 504 U. S., at 561; see also id., at 570,
n. 5 (plurality opinion). Not only that, a plaintiff must show
a favorable decision is
“ ‘likely’ ” to provide effectual
relief. Id., at 561. When the States filed this suit,
however, the possibility that it might find its way to this Court
was speculative at best. See id., at 570, n. 5
(plurality opinion) (rejecting an argument that redressability
could depend on “the fortuity that [a] case has made its way
to this Court”).

															Nor is that the only complication. Ordinarily,
to win an injunction from any court, a party must satisfy several
factors. See eBay Inc. v. MercExchange,
L. L. C., 547 U.S.
388, 391 (2006). The States relegate any mention of these
factors to a short, formulaic paragraph tacked onto the end of
their brief. See Brief for Respondents 48. Worse, the only
injunction they seek is one barring “implementation and
enforcement” of the Guidelines—essentially an
injunction imitating a vacatur order. Id., at 47. And as we
have seen, an order like that would leave officials with their
prosecutorial discretion intact. See supra, at 6. So, even
if this Court were to take the unusual step of issuing and
superintending its own injunction, giving the States the very order
they seek is hardly sure to redress the injuries they assert.

															III

															Beyond these redressability problems may lie
still another. Recall the essential premise on which the district
court proceeded—that the APA empowers courts to vacate agency
action. The federal government vigorously disputes this premise,
arguing that the law does not contemplate this form of relief. The
reasons the government offers are plenty and serious enough to
warrant careful consideration.

															A

															Traditionally, when a federal court finds a
remedy merited, it provides party-specific relief, directing the
defendant to take or not take some action relative to the
plaintiff. If the court’s remedial order affects nonparties,
it does so only incidentally. See, e.g., Doran v.
Salem Inn, Inc., 422 U.S.
922, 931 (1975) (“[N]either declaratory nor injunctive
relief can directly interfere with the enforcement of contested
statutes or ordinances except with respect to the particular
federal plaintiffs.”); Alemite Mfg. Corp. v.
Staff, 42 F.2d 832 (CA2 1930) (L. Hand, J.) (“[A]
court of equity . . . cannot lawfully enjoin the world at
large.”); see also Trump v. Hawaii, 585
U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (Thomas, J., concurring) (slip op., at
6). This tracks the founding-era understanding that courts
“render a judgment or decree upon the rights of the
litigant[s].” Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12
Pet. 657, 718 (1838). It also ensures that federal courts respect
the limits of their Article III authority to decide cases and
controversies and avoid trenching on the power of the elected
branches to shape legal rights and duties more broadly. After all,
the “judicial Power” is the power to “decide
cases for parties, not questions for everyone.” S. Bray,
Multiple Chancellors: Reforming the National Injunction, 131 Harv.
L. Rev. 417, 421 (2017).

															Despite these foundational principles, in recent
years a number of lower courts have asserted the authority to issue
decrees that purport to define the rights and duties of sometimes
millions of people who are not parties before them. Three years
ago, I reflected on the rise of the “universal
injunctio[n]” and raised questions about its consistency with
the separation of powers and our precedents. Department of
Homeland Security v. New York, 589 U. S. ___, ___
(2020) (opinion concurring in grant of stay) (slip op., at 3). I
observed, too, that “the routine issuance of universal
injunctions” has proven “unworkable, sowing chaos for
litigants, the government, courts, and all those affected by these
[sometimes] conflicting” decrees. Ibid.

															Matters have not improved with time. Universal
injunctions continue to intrude on powers reserved for the elected
branches. They continue to deprive other lower courts of the chance
to weigh in on important questions before this Court has to decide
them. They continue to encourage parties to engage in forum
shopping and circumvent rules governing class-wide relief. Recent
events have highlighted another problem too. Sometimes, the
government may effectively submit to a universal decree running
against it in order to avoid “the usual and important
requirement, under the [APA], that a regulation originally
promulgated using notice and comment . . . may only be
repealed through notice and comment.” Arizona v.
City and County of San Francisco, 596 U. S. ___, ___
(2022) (Roberts, C. J., concurring) (slip op., at 2). It is a
strategy that amounts to little more than
“ ‘rulemaking-by-collective-acquiescence.’ ”
Ibid.; see also Danco Laboratories, LLC v.
Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine, 598 U. S. ___, ___
(2023) (Alito, J., dissenting from grant of application for stays)
(slip op., at 3); Arizona v. Mayorkas, 598 U. S.
___, ___–___ (2023) (statement of Gorsuch, J.) (slip op., at
1–4).

															Today’s case presents a variation on the
theme. The district court ordered “wholesale vacatur”
of the Guidelines, rendering them inoperable with respect to any
person anywhere. 606 F. Supp. 3d, at 499, 502. As authority
for its course, the district court cited §706(2) of the APA.
That provision does not say anything about “vacating”
agency action (“wholesale” or otherwise). Instead, it
authorizes a reviewing court to “set aside” agency
action. Still, from those two words alone, the district court
thought the power to nullify the Guidelines with respect to anyone
anywhere surely follows. See 606 F. Supp. 3d, at 498–500.

															Color me skeptical. If the Congress that
unanimously passed the APA in 1946 meant to overthrow the
“bedrock practice of case-by-case judgments with respect to
the parties in each case” and vest courts with a “new
and far-reaching” remedial power, it surely chose an obscure
way to do it. Arizona v. Biden, 40 F. 4th 375,
396 (CA6 2022) (Sutton, C. J., concurring). At the very least,
it is worth a closer look.

															B

															Begin with the words “set aside”
in isolation. If they might suggest to some a power to
“vacate” agency action in the sense of rendering it
null and void, just as naturally they might mean something else
altogether. They might simply describe what a court usually does
when it finds a federal or state statute unconstitutional, or a
state law preempted by a federal one. Routinely, a court will
disregard offensive provisions like these and proceed to decide the
parties’ dispute without respect to them. In Dennis v.
United States, 341 U.S.
494 (1951), for example, Justice Frankfurter observed that
“[w]e are to set aside the judgment of those whose duty it is
to legislate only if ” the Constitution requires it.
Id., at 525 (concurring opinion). Justice Frankfurter hardly
meant to suggest the Court had the power to erase statutes from the
books. See id., at 525–526. Instead, he used the
phrase to mean that a court should disregard—refuse to
apply—an unconstitutional law. It is a usage that was common
at the time of the APA’s adoption and that remains so today.
See Webster’s New International Dictionary 2291 (2d ed. 1954)
(defining “set aside” as “to put to one side;
discard; dismiss” and “to reject from consideration;
overrule”); Webster’s New World College Dictionary 1329
(5th ed. 2016) (defining “set aside” as “to set
apart” and “to discard; dismiss; reject”).

															There are many reasons to think §706(2)
uses “set aside” to mean “disregard” rather
than “vacate.” For one thing, at the time of the
APA’s adoption, conventional wisdom regarded agency rules as
“quasi-legislative” in nature. See Humphrey’s
Executor v. United States, 295 U.S.
602, 624, 628 (1935); see also D. Currie & F. Goodman,
Judicial Review of Federal Administrative Action: Quest for the
Optimum Forum, 75 Colum. L. Rev. 1, 40 (1975). And federal courts
have never enjoyed the power to “vacate” legislation.
Instead, they possess “little more than the negative power to
disregard an unconstitutional enactment.”
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262
U.S. 447, 488 (1923). Reading “set aside” to
mean “disregard” ensures parallel judicial treatment of
statutes and rules.

															For another thing, the term “set
aside” appears in §706 of the APA. That section is
titled “Scope of review,” a title it has borne since
the law’s enactment in 1946. 60Stat. 243. And ordinarily,
when we think about the scope of a court’s review, we do not
think about the remedies the court may authorize after reaching its
judgment on the merits. Instead, we think about the court’s
decisional process leading up to that judgment. Understanding
“set aside” as a command to disregard an unlawful rule
in the decisional process fits perfectly within this design.
Understanding the phrase as authorizing a remedy does not.

															What follows in §706 appears to confirm the
point. The statute begins by providing that, “[t]o the extent
necessary to decision and when presented, the reviewing court shall
decide all relevant questions of law, interpret constitutional and
statutory provisions, and determine the meaning and applicability
of the terms of an agency action.” Exactly as expected, we
find an instruction about the decisional process—one
requiring the court to apply “de novo review on
questions of law” as it considers the parties’
arguments in the course of reaching its judgment. Kisor v.
Wilkie, 588 U. S. ___, ___ (2019) (Gorsuch, J.,
concurring in judgment) (slip op., at 15) (internal quotation marks
omitted). Nothing here speaks to remedies.

															The remaining statutory language is more of the
same. Section 706 goes on to instruct that “[t]he reviewing
court shall . . . hold unlawful and set aside agency
action, findings, and conclusions found to be,” among other
things, “arbitrary,” “capricious,”
“contrary to constitutional right,” “in excess
of ” statutory authority, or “unsupported by
substantial evidence.” §706(2). Looking at the provision
as a whole, rather than focusing on two words in isolation, we see
further evidence that it governs a court’s scope of review or
decisional process. The statute tells judges to resolve the cases
that come to them without regard to deficient agency action,
findings, or conclusions—an instruction entirely consistent
with the usual “negative power” of courts “to
disregard” that which is unlawful. Mellon, 262
U. S., at 488.

															Other details are telling too. Consider the
latter part of §706(2)’s directive to “set aside
agency action, findings, and conclusions.” The APA defines
“agency action” to include “the whole or a part
of an agency rule, order, license, sanction, relief, or the
equivalent or denial thereof, or failure to act.” 5
U. S. C. §551(13). A court can disregard any of
those things. But what would it even mean to say a court must
render null and void an agency’s failure to act? Notice, too,
the language about “findings.” Often, judges disregard
factual findings unsupported by record evidence and resolve the
case at hand without respect to them. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc.
52(a)(6) (“Findings of fact . . . must not be set
aside unless clearly erroneous.”). None of that means we may
pretend to rewrite history and scrub any trace of faulty findings
from the record.

															Consider as well the larger statutory context.
Section 702 restricts judicial review to “person[s]”
who have “suffer[ed] legal wrong because of agency action, or
[been] adversely affected or aggrieved by agency action.” The
provision also instructs that “any mandatory or injunctive
decree shall specify the Federal officer or officers
. . . personally responsible for compliance.” Here,
it seems, Congress nodded to traditional standing rules and
remedial principles. Yet under the district court’s reading,
we must suppose Congress proceeded just a few paragraphs later to
plow right through those rules and empower a single judge to award
a novel form of relief affecting parties and nonparties alike.

															Then there is §703. That is where the APA
most clearly discusses remedies. Section 703 authorizes aggrieved
persons to bring “any applicable form of legal action,
including actions for declaratory judgments or writs of prohibitory
or mandatory injunction or habeas corpus.” Conspicuously
missing from the list is vacatur. And what exactly would a
“form of legal action” seeking vacatur look like
anyway? Would it be a creature called a “writ of
vacatur”? Nobody knows (or bothers to tell us). Nor is it
apparent why Congress would have listed most remedies in §703
only to bury another (and arguably the most powerful one) in a
later section addressed to the scope of review. Cf. J. Harrison,
Section 706 of the Administrative Procedure Act Does Not Call for
Universal Injunctions or Other Universal Remedies, 37 Yale J. Reg.
Bull. 37, 37, 45–46 (2020).

															The district court’s reading of “set
aside” invites still other anomalies. Section 706(2) governs
all proceedings under the APA. Any interpretation of “set
aside” therefore must make sense in the context of an
enforcement proceeding, an action for a declaratory judgment, a
suit for an injunction, or habeas. See §703. This poses a
problem for the district court’s interpretation, for no one
thinks a court adjudicating a declaratory action or a habeas
petition “vacates” agency action along the way. See
Brief for United States 41–42; Harrison, 37 Yale J. Reg.
Bull., at 46. The anomaly dissipates, however, if we read
§706(2) as instructing courts about when they must disregard
agency action in the process of deciding a case.

															Imagine what else it would mean if §706(2)
really did authorize vacatur. Ordinary joinder and class-action
procedures would become essentially irrelevant in administrative
litigation. Why bother jumping through those hoops when a single
plaintiff can secure a remedy that rules the world? See Bray, 131
Harv. L. Rev., at 464–465. Surely, too, it is odd that
leading scholars who wrote extensively about the APA after its
adoption apparently never noticed this supposed remedy. See J.
Harrison, Vacatur of Rules Under the Administrative Procedure Act,
40 Yale J. Reg. Bull. 119, 127–128 (2023) (discussing
scholarship of Professors Kenneth Culp Davis and Louis Jaffe); see
also Department of Justice, Attorney General’s Manual on the
Administrative Procedure Act 108 (1947) (offering the Executive
Branch’s view that §706 simply “restates the
present law as to the scope of judicial review”). These are
not people who would have missed such a major development in their
field.

															C

															As always, there are arguments on the other
side of the ledger, and the States tee up several. They first reply
that §706(2) must allow vacatur of agency action because the
APA models judicial review of agency action on appellate review of
judgments, and appellate courts sometimes vacate judgments. Brief
for Respondents 40. But just because “Congress may sometimes
refer to collateral judicial review of executive action as
‘an appeal’ . . . does not make it an
‘appeal’ akin to that taken from the district court to
the court of appeals.” Garland v. Ming Dai, 593
U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 9). Nor does any of that
tell us in which respects the APA models judicial review of agency
action on appellate review of lower court judgments. According to
one scholar, the “salient” similarities between
appellate review and judicial review of agency action concern the
standards of review—in both types of proceedings, a reviewing
court engages in a more rigorous review of legal questions and a
more deferential review of factual findings. T. Merrill, Article
III, Agency Adjudication, and the Origins of the Appellate Review
Model of Administrative Law, 111 Colum. L. Rev. 939,
940–941 (2011). None of that has to do with remedies; once
again, it concerns a court’s scope of review or decisional
process.

															The States next invoke §706(1) and
§705. The former provides that courts shall “compel
agency action unlawfully withheld or unreasonably delayed.”
The latter says courts “may issue all necessary and
appropriate process to postpone the effective date of an agency
action or to preserve status or rights pending conclusion of the
review proceedings.” The States insist that “[i]t would
be illogical” for the APA to authorize these remedies but not
vacatur. Brief for Respondents 40. Is it so clear, though, that
§706(1) and §705 authorize remedies? Section 706(1) does
seem to contemplate a remedy. But it’s one §703
mentions—mandatory injunctions. So §706(1) might not
authorize a remedy as much as confirm the availability of a
traditional remedy to address agency inaction. The same
could be said about §705; it might just confirm courts’
authority to issue traditional equitable relief pending judicial
review. Cf. Sampson v. Murray, 415 U.S.
61, 69, n. 15 (1974) (explaining that §705 was
“primarily intended to reflect existing law”).

															The States also direct us to scholarship that in
turn purports to identify a few instances of federal courts
“setting aside” agency action in the years leading up
to the APA. See Brief for Respondents 41; see also Brief for State
of Florida as Amicus Curiae 17. It is not obvious, however,
that these few cases stand for so much. In two of them, this Court
upheld the agency action in question and thus had no
occasion to opine on appropriate relief. See Houston v.
St. Louis Independent Packing Co., 249 U.S.
479, 486–487 (1919); The Assigned Car Cases,
274 U.S.
564, 584 (1927). In a third case, the plaintiff sought
“to enjoin enforcement of ” an order of the
Federal Communications Commission. Columbia Broadcasting System,
Inc. v. United States, 316 U.S.
407, 408 (1942). That is a claim for traditional equitable
relief, and indeed, the Court held that the complaint
“state[d] a cause of action in equity” and remanded for
further proceedings. Id., at 425. A fourth case, involving
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, seems of a piece.
There, a district court held the Commission’s order invalid
and “restrain[ed] . . . enforcement” of it.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 5 F.
Supp. 929, 936 (ND Ohio 1933). This Court affirmed. See United
States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 293 U.S.
454 (1935). True, this Court described the case as an
“appeal from [a] decree . . . setting aside”
the Commission’s order. Id., at 455. But the fact that
the lower court had only restrained enforcement of the order goes
to show that “set aside” did not then (and does not
now) necessarily translate to “vacate.”

															At the end of the day, the States fall back on
other lower court decisions. “For more than 30 years,”
they say, “vacatur has been the ordinary result when the
D. C. Circuit determines that agency regulations are
unlawful.” Brief for Respondents 42 (internal quotation marks
omitted). Doubtless, to the extent those decisions are carefully
reasoned, they merit respectful consideration. But, equally, they
do not bind us. Cf. post, at 14, n. 7 (Alito, J.,
dissenting) (observing that this Court has only ever
“assumed” that the APA authorizes vacatur).

															In raising questions about the district
court’s claim that §706(2) authorizes vacatur of agency
action, I do not pretend that the matter is open and shut.
Thoughtful arguments and scholarship exist on both sides of the
debate. Nor do I mean to equate vacatur of agency action with
universal injunctions. Despite some similarities, courts can at
least arguably trace their authority to order vacatur to language
in a statute and practice in some lower courts. But the questions
here are serious ones. And given the volume of litigation under the
APA, this Court will have to address them sooner or later. Until
then, we would greatly benefit from the considered views of our
lower court colleagues.

															D

															Suppose my doubts about vacatur are unfounded.
Suppose the APA really does authorize both traditional forms of
equitable relief (in §703) and a more expansive equitable
power to vacate agency action (in §706). Even if that were
true, a district court should “think twice—and perhaps
twice again—before granting” such sweeping relief.
Arizona v. Biden, 40 F. 4th, at 396 (Sutton,
C. J., concurring).

															After all, this Court has long instructed that
equitable relief “must be limited to the inadequacy that
produced [the] injury in fact.” Gill v.
Whitford, 585 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 14)
(internal quotation marks omitted). Any remedy a judge authorizes
must not be ‘‘more burdensome [to the defendant] than
necessary to redress the complaining parties.’’
Califano v. Yamasaki, 442 U.S.
682, 702 (1979). And faithful application of those principles
suggests that an extraordinary remedy like vacatur would demand
truly extraordinary circumstances to justify it. Cf. S. Bray &
P. Miller, Getting Into Equity, 97 N. D. L. Rev. 1763,
1797 (2022) (“[I]n equity it all connects—the broader
and deeper the remedy the plaintiff wants, the stronger the
plaintiff ’s story needs to be.”).

															The temptations a single district judge may face
when invited to vacate agency rules are obvious. Often, plaintiffs
argue that everyone deserves to benefit from their effort to
litigate the case and the court’s effort to decide it. Judges
may think efficiency and uniformity favor the broadest possible
relief. But there are serious countervailing considerations. As
with universal injunctions, vacatur can stymie the orderly review
of important questions, lead to forum shopping, render meaningless
rules about joinder and class actions, and facilitate efforts to
evade the APA’s normal rulemaking processes. Vacatur can also
sweep up nonparties who may not wish to receive the benefit of the
court’s decision. Exactly that happened here. Dozens of
States, counties, and cities tell us they did not seek and do not
want the “benefit” of the district court’s
vacatur order in this case. See Brief for New York et al. as
Amici Curiae 1–2; Brief for 21 Cities, Counties, and
Local Government Organizations as Amici Curiae
2–3.

															More importantly still, universal relief,
whether by way of injunction or vacatur, strains our separation of
powers. It exaggerates the role of the Judiciary in our
constitutional order, allowing individual judges to act more like a
legislature by decreeing the rights and duties of people
nationwide. This Court has warned that “[f]ew exercises of
the judicial power are more likely to undermine public confidence
in the neutrality and integrity of the Judiciary than one which
casts [courts] in the role of a Council of Revision, conferring on
[themselves] the power to invalidate laws at the behest of anyone
who disagrees with them.” Arizona Christian School Tuition
Organization v. Winn, 563 U.S.
125, 145–146 (2011). At a minimum, then, district courts
must carefully consider all these things before doling out
universal relief. And courts of appeals must do their part, too,
asking whether party-specific relief can adequately protect the
plaintiff ’s interests. If so, an appellate court should
not hesitate to hold that broader relief is an abuse of discretion.
Cf. Kentucky v. Biden, 57 F. 4th 545,
556–557 (CA6 2023) (Larsen, J.).

															*

															In our system of government, federal courts
play an important but limited role by resolving cases and
controversies. Standing doctrine honors this limitation at the
front end of every lawsuit. It preserves a forum for plaintiffs
seeking relief for concrete and personal harms while filtering out
those with generalized grievances that belong to a legislature to
address. Traditional remedial rules do similar work at the back end
of a case. They ensure successful plaintiffs obtain meaningful
relief. But they also restrain courts from altering rights and
obligations more broadly in ways that would interfere with the
power reserved to the people’s elected representatives. In
this case, standing and remedies intersect. The States lack
standing because federal courts do not have authority to redress
their injuries. Section 1252(f )(1) denies the States any
coercive relief. A vacatur order under §706(2) supplies them
no effectual relief. And such an order itself may not even be
legally permissible. The States urge us to look past these
problems, but I do not see how we might. The Constitution affords
federal courts considerable power, but it does not establish
“government by lawsuit.” R. Jackson, The Struggle for
Judicial Supremacy 286–287 (1941).

													
