::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-506
::decision_name::  Biden v. Nebraska
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–506

															_________________

															Joseph R. Biden, President of the United
States, et al., PETITIONERS v. Nebraska,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the
united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit

															[June 30, 2023]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Sotomayor and
Justice Jackson join, dissenting.

															In every respect, the Court today exceeds its
proper, limited role in our Nation’s governance.

															Some 20 years ago, Congress enacted legislation,
called the HEROES Act, authorizing the Secretary of Education to
provide relief to student-loan borrowers when a national emergency
struck. The Secretary’s authority was bounded: He could do
only what was “necessary” to alleviate the
emergency’s impact on affected borrowers’ ability to
repay their student loans. 20 U. S. C.
§1098bb(a)(2). But within that bounded area, Congress gave
discretion to the Secretary. He could “waive or modify any
statutory or regulatory provision” applying to federal
student-loan programs, including provisions relating to loan
repayment and forgiveness. And in so doing, he could replace the
old provisions with new “terms and conditions.”
§§1098bb(a)(1), (b)(2). The Secretary, that is, could
give the relief that was needed, in the form he deemed most
appropriate, to counteract the effects of a national emergency on
borrowers’ capacity to repay. That may have been a good idea,
or it may have been a bad idea. Either way, it was what Congress
said.

															When COVID hit, two Secretaries serving two
different Presidents decided to use their HEROES Act authority. The
first suspended loan repayments and interest accrual for all
federally held student loans. The second continued that policy for
a time, and then replaced it with the loan forgiveness plan at
issue here, granting most low- and middle-income borrowers up to
$10,000 in debt relief. Both relied on the HEROES Act language
cited above. In establishing the loan forgiveness plan, the current
Secretary scratched the pre-existing conditions for loan discharge,
and specified different conditions, opening loan forgiveness to
more borrowers. So he “waive[d]” and
“modif[ied]” statutory and regulatory provisions and
applied other “terms and conditions” in their stead.
That may have been a good idea, or it may have been a bad idea.
Either way, the Secretary did only what Congress had told him he
could.

															The Court’s first overreach in this case
is deciding it at all. Under Article III of the Constitution, a
plaintiff must have standing to challenge a government action. And
that requires a personal stake—an injury in fact. We do not
allow plaintiffs to bring suit just because they oppose a policy.
Neither do we allow plaintiffs to rely on injuries suffered by
others. Those rules may sound technical, but they enforce
“fundamental limits on federal judicial power.”
Allen v. Wright, 468 U.S.
737, 750 (1984). They keep courts acting like courts. Or stated
the other way around, they prevent courts from acting like this
Court does today. The plaintiffs in this case are six States that
have no personal stake in the Secretary’s loan forgiveness
plan. They are classic ideological plaintiffs: They think the plan
a very bad idea, but they are no worse off because the Secretary
differs. In giving those States a forum—in adjudicating their
complaint—the Court forgets its proper role. The Court acts
as though it is an arbiter of political and policy disputes, rather
than of cases and controversies.

															And the Court’s role confusion persists
when it takes up the merits. For years, this Court has insisted
that the way to keep judges’ policy views and preferences out
of judicial decisionmaking is to hew to a statute’s text. The
HEROES Act’s text settles the legality of the
Secretary’s loan forgiveness plan. The statute provides the
Secretary with broad authority to give emergency relief to
student-loan borrowers, including by altering usual discharge
rules. What the Secretary did fits comfortably within that
delegation. But the Court forbids him to proceed. As in other
recent cases, the rules of the game change when Congress enacts
broad delegations allowing agencies to take substantial regulatory
measures. See, e.g., West Virginia v. EPA, 597
U. S. ___ (2022). Then, as in this case, the Court reads
statutes unnaturally, seeking to cabin their evident scope. And the
Court applies heightened-specificity requirements, thwarting
Congress’s efforts to ensure adequate responses to unforeseen
events. The result here is that the Court substitutes itself for
Congress and the Executive Branch in making national policy about
student-loan forgiveness. Congress authorized the forgiveness plan
(among many other actions); the Secretary put it in place; and the
President would have been accountable for its success or failure.
But this Court today decides that some 40 million Americans will
not receive the benefits the plan provides, because (so says the
Court) that assistance is too “significan[t].”
Ante, at 20–21. With all respect, I dissent.

															I

															“No principle is more fundamental to the
judiciary’s proper role in our system of government than the
constitutional limitation of federal-court jurisdiction to actual
cases or controversies.” Simon v. Eastern Ky.
Welfare Rights Organization, 426 U.S.
26, 37 (1976). In our system, “[f]ederal courts do not
possess a roving commission to publicly opine on every legal
question.” TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez, 594
U. S. ___, ___ (2021) (slip op., at 8). Nor do they
“exercise general legal oversight of the Legislative and
Executive Branches.” Ibid. A court may address the
legality of a government action only if the person challenging it
has standing—which requires that the person have suffered a
“concrete and particularized injury.” Ibid. It
is not enough for the plaintiff to assert a “generalized
grievance[ ]” about government policy. Gill v.
Whitford, 585 U. S. ___, ___ (2018) (slip op., at 13).
And critically here, the plaintiff cannot rest its claim on a third
party’s rights and interests. See Warth v.
Seldin, 422 U.S.
490, 499 (1975). The plaintiff needs its own stake—a
“personal stake”—in the outcome of the
litigation. TransUnion, 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at
7). If the plaintiff has no such stake, a court must stop in its
tracks. To decide the case is to exceed the permissible boundaries
of the judicial role.

															That is what the Court does today. The
plaintiffs here are six States: Arkansas, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri,
Nebraska, and South Carolina. They oppose the Secretary’s
loan cancellation plan on varied policy and legal grounds. But as
everyone agrees, those objections are just general grievances; they
do not show the particularized injury needed to bring suit. And the
States have no straightforward way of making that showing—of
explaining how they are harmed by a plan that reduces
individual borrowers’ federal student-loan debt. So the
States have thrown no fewer than four different theories of injury
against the wall, hoping that a court anxious to get to the merits
will say that one of them sticks. The most that can be said of the
theory the majority selects, proffered solely by Missouri, is that
it is less risible than the others. It still contravenes a bedrock
principle of standing law—that a plaintiff cannot ride on
someone else’s injury. Missouri is doing just that in relying
on injuries to the Missouri Higher Education Loan Authority
(MOHELA), a legally and financially independent public corporation.
And that means the Court, by deciding this case, exercises
authority it does not have. It violates the Constitution.

															A

															Missouri’s theory of standing, as
accepted by the majority, goes as follows. MOHELA is a
state-created corporation participating in the student-loan market.
As part of that activity, it has contracted with the Department of
Education to service federally held loans—essentially, to
handle billing and collect payments for the Federal Government.
Under that contract, MOHELA receives an administrative fee for each
loan serviced. When a loan is canceled, MOHELA will not get a fee;
so the Secretary’s plan will cost MOHELA money. And if MOHELA
is harmed, Missouri must be harmed, because the corporation is a
“public instrumentality” and, as such, “part of
Missouri’s government.” Brief for Respondents
16–17; see ante, at 8–9.

															Up to the last step, the theory is
unexceptionable—except that it points to MOHELA as the proper
plaintiff. Financial harm is a classic injury in fact. MOHELA
plausibly alleges that it will suffer that harm as a result of the
Secretary’s plan. So MOHELA can sue the Secretary, as the
Government readily concedes. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 18. But not even
Missouri, and not even the majority, claims that MOHELA’s
revenue loss gets passed through to the State. As further discussed
below, MOHELA is financially independent from Missouri—as
corporations typically are, the better to insulate their creators
from financial loss. See infra, at 6. So MOHELA’s
revenue decline—the injury in fact claimed to justify this
suit—is not in fact Missouri’s. The State’s
treasury will not be out one penny because of the Secretary’s
plan. The revenue loss allegedly grounding this case is
MOHELA’s alone.

															Which leads to an obvious question:
Where’s MOHELA? The answer is: As far from this suit as it
can manage. MOHELA could have brought this suit. It possesses the
power under Missouri law to “sue and be sued” in its
own name. Mo. Rev. Stat. §173.385.1(3) (2016). But MOHELA is
not a party here. Nor is it an amicus. Nor is it even a
rooting bystander. MOHELA was “not involved with the decision
of the Missouri Attorney General’s Office” to file this
suit. Letter from Appellees in No. 22–3179 (CA8), p. 3
(Nov. 1, 2022). And MOHELA did not cooperate with the Attorney
General’s efforts. When the AG wanted documents relating to
MOHELA’s loan-servicing contract, to aid him in putting
forward the State’s standing theory, he had to file formal
“sunshine law” demands on the entity. See id.,
at 3–4. MOHELA had no interest in assisting voluntarily.

															If all that makes you suspect that MOHELA is
distinct from the State, you would be right. And that is so as a
matter of law and financing alike. Yes, MOHELA is a creature of
state statute, a public instrumentality established to serve a
public function. §173.360. But the law sets up MOHELA as a
corporation—a so-called “body
corporate”—with a “[s]eparate legal
personality.” Ibid.; First Nat. City Bank v.
Banco Para el Comercio Exterior de Cuba, 462 U.S.
611, 625 (1983) (Bancec). Or said a bit differently,
MOHELA is—like the lion’s share of corporations,
whether public or private—a “separate legal [entity]
with distinct legal rights and obligations” from those
belonging to its creator. Agency for Int’l Development
v. Alliance for Open Society Int’l Inc., 591
U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 5). MOHELA, for example,
has the power to contract with other entities, which is how it
entered into a loan-servicing contract with the Department of
Education. See §173.385.1(15). MOHELA’s assets,
including the fees gained from that contract, are not “part
of the revenue of the [S]tate” and cannot be “used for
the payment of debt incurred by the [S]tate.”
§§173.386, 173.425. On the other side of the ledger,
MOHELA’s debts are MOHELA’s alone; Missouri cannot be
liable for them. §173.410. And as noted earlier, MOHELA has
the power to “sue and be sued” independent of Missouri,
so it can both “prosecute and defend” all its varied
interests. §173.385.1(3); see supra, at 5. Indeed,
before this case, Missouri had never tried to appear in court on
MOHELA’s behalf. That is no surprise. In the statutory
scheme, independence is everywhere: State law created MOHELA, but
in so doing set it apart.

															The Missouri Supreme Court itself recognized as
much in addressing a near-carbon-copy state instrumentality. MOHEFA
(note the one-letter difference) issues bonds to support various
health and educational institutions in the State. Like MOHELA,
MOHEFA is understood as a “public instrumentality”
serving a “public function.” Menorah Medical
Center v. Health and Ed. Facilities Auth., 
584 S.W.2d 73, 76 (Mo. 1979). And like MOHELA, MOHEFA has a
board appointed by the Governor and sends annual reports to a state
department. See Mo. Rev. Stat. §§360.020, 360.140 (1978);
ante, at 9 (suggesting those features matter). But the State
Supreme Court, when confronted with a claim that MOHEFA’s
undertakings should be ascribed to the State, could hardly have
been more dismissive. The court thought it beyond dispute that
MOHEFA “is not the [S]tate,” and that its activities
are not state activities. Menorah, 584 S. W. 2d, at 78.
Citing MOHEFA’s financial and legal independence, the court
explained that “[s]imilar bodies have been adjudged as
‘separate entities’ from” Missouri. Ibid.
MOHELA is no different.

															Under our usual standing rules, that separation
would matter—indeed, would decide this case. A plaintiff,
this Court has held time and again, cannot rest its claim to
judicial relief on the “legal rights and interests” of
third parties. Warth, 422 U. S., at 499. And MOHELA
qualifies as such a party, for all the reasons just given. That
MOHELA is publicly created makes not a whit of difference: When a
“government instrumentalit[y]” is “established as
[a] juridical entit[y] distinct and independent from [its]
sovereign,” the law—including the law of
standing—is supposed to treat it that way. Bancec, 462
U. S., at 626–627; see Sloan Shipyards Corp. v.
United States Shipping Bd. Emergency Fleet Corporation,
258 U.S.
549, 567 (1922). So this case should have been open-and-shut.
Missouri and MOHELA are legally, and also financially,
“separate entities.” Menorah, 584 S. W. 2d,
at 78. MOHELA is fully capable of representing its own interests,
and always has done so before. The injury to MOHELA thus does not
entitle Missouri—under our normal standing rules—to go
to court.

															And those normal rules are more than just rules:
They are, as this case shows, guarantors of our constitutional
order. The requirement that the proper party—the party
actually affected—challenge an action ensures that courts do
not overstep their proper bounds. See Clapper v. Amnesty
Int’l USA, 568 U.S.
398, 408–409 (2013) (“Relaxation of standing
[rules] is directly related to the expansion of judicial
power”). Without that requirement, courts become
“forums for the ventilation of public
grievances”—for settlement of ideological and political
disputes. Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans
United for Separation of Church and State, Inc.,
454 U.S.
464, 473 (1982). The kind of forum this Court has become today.
Is there a person in America who thinks Missouri is here because it
is worried about MOHELA’s loss of loan-servicing fees? I
would like to meet him. Missouri is here because it thinks the
Secretary’s loan cancellation plan makes for terrible,
inequitable, wasteful policy. And so too for Arkansas, Iowa,
Kansas, Nebraska, and South Carolina. And maybe all of them are
right. But that question is not what this Court sits to decide.
That question is “more appropriately addressed in the
representative branches,” and by the broader public.
Allen, 468 U. S., at 751. Our third-party standing
rules, like the rest of our standing doctrine, exist to separate
powers in that way—to send political issues to political
institutions, and retain only legal controversies, brought by
plaintiffs who have suffered real legal injury. If MOHELA had
brought this suit, we would have had to resolve it, however hot or
divisive. But Missouri? In adjudicating Missouri’s claim, the
majority reaches out to decide a matter it has no business
deciding. It blows through a constitutional guardrail intended to
keep courts acting like courts.

															B

															The majority does not over-expend itself in
defending that action. It recites the State’s assertion that
a “harm to MOHELA is also a harm to Missouri” because
the former is the latter’s instrumentality. Ante, at
8. But in doing so, the majority barely addresses MOHELA’s
separate corporate identity, its financial independence, and its
distinct legal rights. In other words, the majority glides swiftly
over all the attributes of MOHELA ensuring that its economic losses
(1) are not passed on to the State and (2) can be rectified (if
there is legal wrong) without the State’s help. The majority
is left to argue from a couple of prior decisions and a single
idea, the latter relating to the State’s desire to “aid
Missouri college students.” Ante, at 9. But the
decisions do not stand for what the majority claims. And the idea
collides with another core precept of standing law. All in all, the
majority’s justifications turn standing law from a pillar of
a restrained judiciary into nothing more than “a
lawyer’s game.” Massachusetts v. EPA,
549 U.S.
497, 548 (2007) (Roberts, C. J., dissenting).

															The majority mainly relies on Arkansas v.
Texas, 346 U.S.
368 (1953), but that case shows only that not all public
instrumentalities are the same. The Court there held that Arkansas
could bring suit on behalf of a state university. But it did so
because the school lacked the financial and legal
separateness MOHELA has. Arkansas, we observed, “owns all the
property used by the University.” Id., at 370. And the
suit, if successful, would have enhanced that property: The
litigation sought to stop Texas from interfering with a contract to
build a medical facility on campus. For the same reason, the Court
found that “any injury under the contract to the University
is an injury to Arkansas”: The State was the principal
beneficiary of the contract to improve its own property.
Ibid. So Arkansas had the sort of direct financial interest
not present here. And there is more: The University, the Court
thought, could not sue on its own. See ibid. The majority
suggests otherwise, citing a state-court decision holding that
corporations usually have the power to bring and defend legal
actions. See ante, at 11–12. But the Arkansas
Court referenced a different state-court decision—one holding
that another state school was “not authorized” to
“sue and be sued.” Allen Eng. Co. v.
Kays, 106 Ark. 174, 177, 152 S.W. 992, 993 (1913); see
Arkansas, 346 U. S., at 370, and n. 9. That
decision led this Court to conclude that Arkansas law treated
“a suit against the University” as “a suit
against the State.” Id., at 370. But if state law had
not done so—as it does not in Missouri for MOHELA? See
supra, at 6–7. The Court made clear that a State
cannot stand in for an independent entity. The State, the Court
said, “must, of course, represent an interest of her own and
not merely that of her citizens or corporations.”
Ibid.

															The majority’s second
case—Lebron v. National Railroad Passenger
Corporation, 513 U.S.
374 (1995)—is yet further afield. The issue there was
whether Amtrak, a public corporation similar to MOHELA, had to
comply with the First Amendment. The Court held that it did,
labeling Amtrak a state actor for that purpose. On the opposite
view, we reasoned, a government could “evade the most solemn
obligations imposed in the Constitution by simply resorting to the
corporate form.” Id., at 397; see ibid. (noting
that Plessy could then be “resurrected by the simple
device” of creating a public corporation to run trains). But
that did not mean Amtrak was equivalent to the Government for all
purposes. Over and over, we cabined our holding that Amtrak was a
state actor by adding a phrase like “for purposes of the
First Amendment” or other constitutional rights. Id.,
at 400; see id., at 383 (Amtrak “must be regarded as a
Government entity for First Amendment purposes”); id.,
at 392 (Amtrak is “a Government entity for purposes of
determining the constitutional rights of citizens”);
id., at 394 (Amtrak is an “instrumentality of the
United States for the purpose of individual rights guaranteed
against the Government”); id., at 397, 399, 400
(similar, similar, and similar). But for other purposes, a
different rule might, or would, obtain. Our holding, we said, did
not mean Amtrak had sovereign immunity. See id., at 392. And
most relevant here, we reaffirmed that “[t]he State does not,
by becoming a corporator, identify itself with the
corporation” for purposes of litigation. Id., at 398.
Or said again, the Government is “not a party to suits
brought by or against” its corporation. Id., at 399.
So what Lebron tells us about MOHELA is that it must comply
with the Constitution. Lebron offers no support (more like
the opposite) for the different view that MOHELA and Missouri are
interchangeable parties in litigation.[1]

															Remaining is the majority’s
unsupported—and insupportable—idea that the
Secretary’s plan “necessarily” hurts Missouri
because it “impair[s]” MOHELA’s “efforts to
aid [the State’s] college students.” Ante, at 9.
To begin with, it seems unlikely that the reduction in
MOHELA’s revenues resulting from the discharge would make it
harder for students to “access student loans,” as the
majority contends. Ante, at 8. MOHELA is not a lender; it
services loans others have made. Which is probably why even
Missouri has never tried to show that the Secretary’s plan
will so detrimentally affect the State’s borrowers. In any
event—and more important—such a harm to citizens cannot
provide an escape hatch out of MOHELA’s legal and financial
independence. That is because of another canonical limit on a
State’s ability to ride on third parties: A State may never
sue the Federal Government based on its citizens’ rights and
interests. See Alfred L. Snapp & Son, Inc. v.
Puerto Rico ex rel. Barez, 458 U.S.
592, 610, n. 16 (1982); Haaland v. Brackeen, 599
U. S. ___, ___, and n. 11 (2023) (slip op., at 32, and
n. 11). Or said more technically, a “State does not have
standing as parens patriae to bring an action against the
Federal Government.” Ibid.; see Massachusetts
v. Mellon, 262 U.S.
447, 485–486 (1923). So Missouri cannot get standing by
asserting that a harm to MOHELA will harm the State’s
citizens. Missouri needs to show that the harm to MOHELA produces
harm to the State itself. And because, as explained above, MOHELA
was set up (as corporations typically are) to insulate its creator
from such derivative harm, Missouri is incapable of making that
showing. See supra, at 6. The separateness, both financial
and legal, between MOHELA and Missouri makes MOHELA alone the
proper party.

															The author of today’s opinion once wrote
that a 1970s-era standing decision “became emblematic”
of “how utterly manipulable” this Court’s
standing law is “if not taken seriously as a matter of
judicial self-restraint.” Massachusetts, 549
U. S., at 548 (Roberts, C. J., dissenting). After today,
no one will have to go back 50 years for the classic case of the
Court manipulating standing doctrine, rather than obeying the edict
to stay in its lane. The majority and I differ, as I’ll soon
address, on whether the Executive Branch exceeded its authority in
issuing the loan cancellation plan. But assuming the Executive
Branch did so, that does not license this Court to exceed its own
role. Courts must still “function as courts,” this one
no less than others. Ibid. And in our system, that means
refusing to decide cases that are not really cases because the
plaintiffs have not suffered concrete injuries. The Court ignores
that principle in allowing Missouri to piggy-back on the
“legal rights and interests” of an independent entity.
Warth, 422 U. S., at 499. If MOHELA wanted to, it could
have brought this suit. It declined to do so. Under the
non-manipulable, serious version of standing law, that would have
been the end of the matter—regardless how much Missouri, or
this Court, objects to the Secretary’s plan.

															II

															The majority finds no firmer ground when it
reaches the merits. The statute Congress enacted gives the
Secretary broad authority to respond to national emergencies. That
authority kicks in only under exceptional conditions. But when it
kicks in, the Secretary can take exceptional measures. He can
“waive or modify any statutory or regulatory provision”
applying to the student-loan program. §1098bb(a)(1). And as
part of that power, he can “appl[y]” new “terms
and conditions” “in lieu of ” the former
ones. §1098bb(b)(2). That means when an emergency strikes, the
Secretary can alter, so as to cover more people, pre-existing
provisions enabling loan discharges. Which is exactly what the
Secretary did in establishing his loan forgiveness plan. The
majority’s contrary conclusion rests first on stilted textual
analysis. The majority picks the statute apart piece by piece in an
attempt to escape the meaning of the whole. But the whole—the
expansive delegation—is so apparent that the majority has no
choice but to justify its holding on extra-statutory grounds. So
the majority resorts, as is becoming the norm, to its so-called
major-questions doctrine. And the majority again reveals that
doctrine for what it is—a way for this Court to negate broad
delegations Congress has approved, because they will have
significant regulatory impacts. Thus the Court once again
substitutes itself for Congress and the Executive Branch—and
the hundreds of millions of people they represent—in making
this Nation’s most important, as well as most contested,
policy decisions.

															A

															A bit of background first, to give a sense of
where the HEROES Act came from. In 1991 and again in 2002, Congress
authorized the Secretary to grant student-loan relief to borrowers
affected by a specified war or emergency. The first statute came
out of the Persian Gulf Conflict. It gave the Secretary power to
“waive or modify any statutory or regulatory provision”
relating to student-loan programs in order to assist “the men
and women serving on active duty in connection with Operation
Desert Storm.” §§372(a)(1), (b), 105Stat. 93. The
next iteration responded to the impacts of the September 11
terrorist attacks. It too gave the Secretary power to “waive
or modify” any student-loan provision, but this time to help
borrowers affected by the “national emergency” created
by September 11. §2(a)(1), 115Stat. 2386.

															With those one-off statutes in its short-term
memory, Congress decided there was a need for a broader and more
durable emergency authorization. So in 2003, it passed the HEROES
Act. Instead of specifying a particular crisis, that statute
enables the Secretary to act “as [he] deems necessary”
in connection with any military operation or “national
emergency.” §1098bb(a)(1). But the statute’s
greater coverage came with no sacrifice of potency. When the
law’s emergency conditions are satisfied, the Secretary again
has the power to “waive or modify any statutory or regulatory
provision” relating to federal student-loan programs.
Ibid.

															Before turning to the scope of that power, note
the stringency of the triggering conditions. Putting aside military
applications, the Secretary can act only when the President has
declared a national emergency. See §1098ee(4). Further, the
Secretary may provide benefits only to “affected
individuals”—defined as anyone who “resides or is
employed in an area that is declared a disaster area
. . . in connection with a national emergency” or
who has “suffered direct economic hardship as a direct result
of a . . . national emergency.”
§§1098ee(2)(C)–(D). And the Secretary can do only
what he determines to be “necessary” to ensure that
those individuals “are not placed in a worse position
financially in relation to” their loans “because
of ” the emergency. §1098bb(a)(2). That last
condition, said more simply, requires the Secretary to show that
the relief he awards does not go beyond alleviating the economic
effects of an emergency on affected borrowers’ ability to
repay their loans.

															But if those conditions are met, the
Secretary’s delegated authority is capacious. As in the prior
statutes, the Secretary has the linked power to “waive or
modify any statutory or regulatory provision” applying to the
student-loan programs. §1098bb(a)(1). To start with the phrase
after the verbs, “the word ‘any’ has an expansive
meaning.” United States v. Gonzales, 520 U.S.
1, 5 (1997). “Any” of the referenced provisions
means, well, any of those provisions. And those provisions include
several relating to student-loan cancellation—more precisely,
specifying conditions in which the Secretary can discharge loan
principal. See §§1087, 1087dd(g); 34 CFR
§§682.402, 685.212 (2022). Now go back to the twin verbs:
“waive or modify.” To “waive” means to
“abandon, renounce, or surrender”—so here, to
eliminate a regulatory requirement or condition. Black’s Law
Dictionary 1894 (11th ed. 2019). To “modify” means
“[t]o make somewhat different” or “to reduce in
degree or extent”—so here, to lessen rather than
eliminate such a requirement. Id., at 1203. Then put the
words together, as they appear in the statute: To “waive or
modify” a requirement means to lessen its effect, from the
slightest adjustment up to eliminating it altogether. Of course,
making such changes may leave gaps to fill. So the statute says
what is anyway obvious: that the Secretary’s
waiver/modification power includes the ability to specify
“the terms and conditions to be applied in lieu of such
[modified or waived] statutory and regulatory provisions.”
§1098bb(b)(2). Finally, attach the “waive or
modify” power to all the provisions relating to loan
cancellation: The Secretary may amend, all the way up to
discarding, those provisions and fill the holes that action creates
with new terms designed to counteract an emergency’s effects
on borrowers.

															Before reviewing how that statutory scheme
operated here, consider how it might work for a hypothetical
emergency that the enacting Congress had in the front of its mind.
As noted above, a precursor to the HEROES Act was a statute
authorizing the Secretary to assist student-loan borrowers affected
by September 11. See supra, at 14. The HEROES Act, as
Congress designed it, would give him the identical power to address
similar terrorist attacks in the future. So imagine the horrific. A
terrorist organization sets off a dirty bomb in Chicago. Beyond
causing deaths, the incident leads millions of residents (including
many with student loans) to flee the city to escape the radiation.
They must find new housing, probably new jobs. And still their
student-loan bills are coming due every month. To prevent
widespread loan delinquencies and defaults, the Secretary wants to
discharge $10,000 for the class of affected borrowers. Is that
legal? Of course it is; it is exactly what Congress provided for.
The statutory preconditions are met: The President has declared a
national emergency; the Secretary’s proposed relief extends
only to “affected individuals”; and the Secretary has
deemed the action “necessary to ensure” that the attack
does not place those borrowers “in a worse position” to
repay their loans. §1098bb(a). And the statutory powers of
waiver and modification give the Secretary the means to offer the
needed assistance. He can, for purposes of this special loan
forgiveness program, scratch the pre-existing conditions for
discharge and specify different conditions met by the affected
borrowers. That is what the congressionally delegated powers are
for. If the Secretary did not use them, Congress would be
appalled.

															The HEROES Act applies to the COVID loan
forgiveness program in just the same way. Of course, Congress did
not know COVID was coming; and maybe it wasn’t even thinking
about pandemics generally. But that is immaterial, because Congress
delegated broadly, for all national emergencies. It is true, too,
that the Secretary’s use of the HEROES Act delegation has
proved politically controversial, in a way that assistance to
terrorism victims presumably would not. But again, that fact is
irrelevant to the lawfulness of the program. If the hypothetical
plan just discussed is legal, so too is this real one. Once more,
the statutory preconditions have been met. The President declared
the COVID pandemic a “national emergency.”
§1098ee(4); see 87 Fed. Reg. 10289 (2022). The eligible
borrowers all fall within the law’s definition of
“affected individual[s].” §1098ee(2); see
supra, at 15. And the Secretary “deem[ed]”
relief “necessary to ensure” that the pandemic did not
put low- and middle-income borrowers “in a worse
position” to repay their loans.
§§1098bb(a)(1)–(2).[2] With those boxes checked, the Secretary’s
waiver/modification powers kick in. And the Secretary used them
just as described in the hypothetical above. For purposes of the
COVID program, he scratched the conditions for loan discharge
contained in several provisions. See App. 261–262 (citing
§§1087, 1087dd(g); 34 CFR §§682.402, 685.212).
He then altered those provisions by specifying different
conditions, which opened up loan forgiveness to more borrowers. So
he “waive[d]” and “modif[ied]” pre-existing
law and, in so doing, applied new “terms and
conditions” “in lieu of ” the old.
§§1098bb(a)(1), (b)(2); see 87 Fed. Reg. 61514. As in the
prior hypothetical, then, he used his statutory emergency powers in
the manner Congress designed.

															How does the majority avoid this conclusion? By
picking the statute apart, and addressing each segment of
Congress’s authorization as if it had nothing to do with the
others. For the first several pages—really, the
heart—of its analysis, the majority proceeds as though the
statute contains only the word “modify.” See
ante, at 13–15. It eventually gets around to the word
“waive,” but similarly spends most of its time treating
that word alone. See ante, at 15–16. Only when that
discussion is over does the majority inform the reader that the
statute also contemplates the Secretary’s addition of new
terms and conditions. See ante, at 17–18. But once
again the majority treats that authority in isolation, and thus as
insignificant. Each aspect of the Secretary’s
authority—waiver, modification, replacement—is kept
sealed in a vacuum-packed container. The way they connect and
reinforce each other is generally ignored. “Divide to
conquer” is the watchword. So there cannot possibly emerge
“a fair construction of the whole instrument.”
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 406 (1819). The
majority fails to read the statutory authorization right because it
fails to read it whole. See A. Scalia & B. Garner, Reading Law:
The Interpretation of Legal Texts 167–169 (2012) (discussing
the importance of the whole-text—here, really, the
whole-sentence—canon).

															The majority’s cardinal error is reading
“modify” as if it were the only word in the statutory
delegation. Taken alone, this Court once stated, the word connotes
“increment” and means “to change moderately or in
minor fashion.” MCI Telecommunications Corp. v.
American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 512 U.S.
218, 225 (1994). But no sooner did the Court say that much than
it noted the importance of “contextual indications.”
Id., at 226; see Scalia & Garner 167 (“Context is
a primary determinant of meaning”). And in the HEROES Act,
the dominant piece of context is that “modify” does not
stand alone. It is one part of a couplet: “waive or
modify.” The first verb, as discussed above, means
eliminate—usually the most substantial kind of change. See
supra, at 15; accord, ante, at 16. So the question
becomes: Would Congress have given the Secretary power to wholly
eliminate a requirement, as well as to relax it just a little bit,
but nothing in between? The majority says yes. But the answer is
no, because Congress would not have written so insane a law. The
phrase “waive or modify” instead says to the Secretary:
“Feel free to get rid of a requirement or, short of that, to
alter it to the extent you think appropriate.” Otherwise
said, the phrase extends from minor changes all the way up to major
ones.

															The majority fares no better in claiming that
the phrase “waive or modify” somehow limits the
Secretary’s ability “to add to existing
law.” Ante, at 18 (emphasis in original). The
majority’s explanation of that idea oscillates a fair bit. At
times the majority tries to convey that “additions” as
a class are somehow suspect. See ante, at 17–18
(looking askance at “add[ing] new terms,” “adding
back in,” “filling the empty space,”
“augment[ing],” and “draft[ing] new”
language). But that is mistaken. Change often (usually?) involves
or necessitates replacements. So when the Secretary uses his
statutory power to remove some conditions on loan cancellation, he
can under that same power replace them with others. The majority
itself must ultimately concede that point. See ante, at 13,
17–18. So it falls back on arguing that the
“additions” allowed cannot be
“substantial[ ]” because the statute uses the word
“modify.” Ante, at 16; see ante, at
17–18. But that just doubles down on the majority’s
most basic error: extracting “modify” from the
“waive or modify” phrase in order to confine the
Secretary to making minor changes. As just shown, the phrase as a
whole says the opposite—tells the Secretary that he can make
changes along a spectrum, from modest to substantial. See
supra, at 19. And so he can make additions along that
spectrum as well. In particular, if he entirely removes existing
conditions on loan discharge, he can substitute new ones; he does
not have to leave gaping holes.

															Indeed, other language in the statute makes that
substitution authority perfectly clear. As noted earlier, the
statute refers expressly to “the terms and conditions to be
applied in lieu of such [modified or waived] statutory and
regulatory provisions.” §1098bb(b)(2); see supra,
at 16. In other words, the statute expects the Secretary’s
waivers and modifications to involve replacing the usual provisions
with different ones. The majority rejoins that the “in lieu
of ” language is a “wafer-thin reed” for the
Secretary to rely on because it appears in a “humdrum
reporting requirement.” Ante, at 17. But the
adjectives are by far the best part of that response. It is
perfectly true that the language instructs the Secretary to
“include” his new “terms and conditions”
when he provides notice of his “waivers or
modifications.” §1098bb(b)(2). But that is because the
statute contemplates that there will be new terms and conditions to
report. In other words, the statute proceeds on the premise that
the usual waiver or modification will, contra the majority, involve
adding “new substantive” provisions. Ante, at
17. The humdrum reporting requirement thus confirms the expansive
extent of the Secretary’s waiver/modification authority.

															The majority’s opposing construction makes
the Act inconsequential. The Secretary emerges with no ability to
respond to large-scale emergencies in commensurate ways. The
creation of any “novel and fundamentally different loan
forgiveness program” is off the table. Ante, at 14.
So, for example, the Secretary could not cancel student loans held
by victims of the hypothetical terrorist attack described above.
See supra, at 16–17. That too would involve “the
introduction of a whole new regime” by way of
“draft[ing] new substantive” conditions for discharging
loans. Ante, at 17–18. And under the majority’s
analysis, new loan forbearance policies are similarly out of
bounds. When COVID struck, Secretary DeVos immediately suspended
loan repayments and interest accrual for all federally held student
loans. See ante, at 5. The majority claims it is not
deciding whether that action was lawful. Ante, at 18,
n. 5. Which is all well and good, except that under the
majority’s reasoning, how could it not be? The suspension too
offered a significant new benefit, and to an even greater number of
borrowers. (Indeed, for many borrowers, it was worth much more than
the current plan’s $10,000 discharge.) So the suspension
could no more meet the majority’s pivotal definition of
“modify”—as make a “minor
change[ ]”—than could the forgiveness plan.
Ante, at 13. On the majority’s telling, Congress
thought that in the event of a national emergency financially
harming borrowers—under a statute gearing potential relief to
the measure of that harm, so that affected borrowers end up no less
able to repay their loans—the Secretary can do no more than
fiddle. He can, the majority says, “reduc[e] the number of
tax forms borrowers are required to file.” Ibid. Or he
can “waive[ ] the requirement that a student provide a
written request for a leave of absence.” Ante, at 15.
But he can do nothing that would ameliorate an emergency’s
economic impact on student-loan borrowers.

															That is not the statute Congress wrote. The
HEROES Act was designed to deal with national
emergencies—typically major in scope, often unpredictable in
nature. It gave the Secretary discretionary authority to relieve
borrowers of the adverse impacts of many possible crises—as
“necessary” to ensure that those individuals are not
“in a worse position financially” to make repayment.
§1098bb(a)(2). If all the Act’s triggers are met, the
Secretary can waive or modify the usual provisions relating to
student loans, and substitute new terms and conditions. That power
extends to the varied provisions governing loan repayment and
discharge. Those provisions are, indeed, the most obvious
candidates for alteration under a statute drafted to leave
borrowers no worse off, in relation to their loans, than before an
emergency struck. But the majority will not accept the
statute’s meaning. At every pass, it “impos[es] limits
on an agency’s discretion that are not supported by the
text.” Little Sisters of the Poor Saints Peter and Paul
Home v. Pennsylvania, 591 U. S. ___, ___ (2020)
(slip op., at 16). It refuses to apply the Act in accordance with
its terms. Explains the majority: “However broad the meaning
of ‘waive or modify’ ”—meaning however
much power Congress gave the Secretary—this program is just
too large. Ante, at 18.

															B

															The tell comes in the last part of the
majority’s opinion. When a court is confident in its
interpretation of a statute’s text, it spells out its reading
and hits the send button. Not this Court, not today. This Court
needs a whole other chapter to explain why it is striking down the
Secretary’s plan. And that chapter is not about the statute
Congress passed and the President signed, in their representation
of many millions of citizens. It instead expresses the
Court’s own “concerns over the exercise of
administrative power.” Ante, at 19. Congress may have
wanted the Secretary to have wide discretion during emergencies to
offer relief to student-loan borrowers. Congress in fact drafted a
statute saying as much. And the Secretary acted under that statute
in a way that subjects the President he serves to political
accountability—the judgment of voters. But none of that is
enough. This Court objects to Congress’s permitting the
Secretary (and other agency officials) to answer so-called major
questions. Or at least it objects when the answers given are not to
the Court’s satisfaction. So the Court puts its own
heavyweight thumb on the scales. It insists that “[h]owever
broad” Congress’s delegation to the Secretary, it (the
Court) will not allow him to use that general authorization to
resolve important issues. The question, the majority helpfully
tells us, is “who has the authority” to make such
significant calls. Ibid. The answer, as is now becoming
commonplace, is this Court. See, e.g., West Virginia,
597 U. S. ___; Alabama Assn. of Realtors v.
Department of Health and Human Servs., 594 U. S. ___
(2021); see also Sackett v. EPA, 598 U. S. ___
(2023) (using a similar judicially manufactured tool to negate
statutory text enabling regulation).

															The majority’s stance, as I explained last
Term, prevents Congress from doing its policy-making job in the way
it thinks best. See West Virginia, 597 U. S., at
___–___, ___–___ (dissenting opinion) (slip op., at
13–19, 28–33). The new major-questions doctrine works
not to better understand—but instead to trump—the scope
of a legislative delegation. See id., at ___ (slip op., at
32). Here is a fact of the matter: Congress delegates to agencies
often and broadly. And it usually does so for sound reasons.
Because agencies have expertise Congress lacks. Because times and
circumstances change, and agencies are better able to keep up and
respond. Because Congress knows that if it had to do everything,
many desirable and even necessary things wouldn’t get done.
In wielding the major-questions sword, last Term and this one, this
Court overrules those legislative judgments. The doctrine forces
Congress to delegate in highly specific terms—respecting,
say, loan forgiveness of certain amounts for borrowers of certain
incomes during pandemics of certain magnitudes. Of course Congress
sometimes delegates in that way. But also often not. Because if
Congress authorizes loan forgiveness, then what of loan
forbearance? And what of the other 10 or 20 or 50 knowable and
unknowable things the Secretary could do? And should the measure
taken—whether forgiveness or forbearance or anything
else—always be of the same size? Or go to the same classes of
people? Doesn’t it depend on the nature and scope of the
pandemic, and on a host of other foreseeable and unforeseeable
factors? You can see the problem. It is hard to identify and
enumerate every possible application of a statute to every possible
condition years in the future. So, again, Congress delegates
broadly. Except that this Court now won’t let it reap the
benefits of that choice.

															And that is a major problem not just for
governance, but for democracy too. Congress is of course a
democratic institution; it responds, even if imperfectly, to the
preferences of American voters. And agency officials, though not
themselves elected, serve a President with the broadest of all
political constituencies. But this Court? It is, by design, as
detached as possible from the body politic. That is why the Court
is supposed to stick to its business—to decide only cases and
controversies (but see supra, at 3–13), and to stay
away from making this Nation’s policy about subjects like
student-loan relief. The policy judgments, under our separation of
powers, are supposed to come from Congress and the President. But
they don’t when the Court refuses to respect the full scope
of the delegations that Congress makes to the Executive Branch.
When that happens, the Court becomes the arbiter—indeed, the
maker—of national policy. See West Virginia, 597
U. S., at ___ (Kagan, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 32)
(“The Court, rather than Congress, will decide how much
regulation is too much”). That is no proper role for a court.
And it is a danger to a democratic order.

															The HEROES Act is a delegation both purposive
and clear. Recall that Congress enacted the statute after passing
two similar laws responding to specific crises. See supra,
at 14. Congress knew that national emergencies would continue to
arise. And Congress decided that when they did, the Secretary
should have the power to offer relief without waiting for another,
incident-specific round of legislation. Emergencies, after all, are
emergencies, where speed is of the essence. For similar reasons,
Congress replicated its prior (two-time) choice to leave the scope
and nature of the loan relief to the Secretary, so that he could
respond to varied conditions. As the House Report noted, Congress
provided “the authority to implement waivers” that were
“not yet contemplated” but might become necessary to
deal with “any unforeseen issues that may arise.” H. R.
Rep. No. 108–122, pp. 8–9 (2003). That delegation is at
the statute’s very center, in its “waive or
modify” language. And the authority it grants goes only to
the Secretary—the official Congress knew to hold the
responsibility for administering the Government’s
student-loan portfolio and programs. See §1082. Student loans
are in the Secretary’s wheelhouse. And so too, Congress
decided, relief from those loan obligations in case of emergency.
That delegation was the entire point of the HEROES Act. Indeed, the
statute accomplishes nothing else.

															The majority is therefore wrong to say that the
“indicators from our previous major questions cases are
present here.” Ante, at 23 (internal quotation marks
omitted). Compare the HEROES Act to other statutes containing broad
delegations that the same majority has found to raise
major-questions problems. Last Term, for example, the majority
thought the trouble with the Clean Power Plan lay in the
EPA’s use of a “long-extant” and
“ancillary” provision addressed to other matters.
West Virginia, 597 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 20).
Before that, the majority invalidated the CDC’s eviction
moratorium because the agency had asserted authority far outside
its “particular domain.” Alabama Assn. of
Realtors, 594 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6). I thought
both those decisions wrong. But assume the opposite; there is, even
on that view, nothing like those circumstances here. (Or, to quote
the majority quoting me, those “case[s are] distinguishable
from this one.” Ante, at 23.) In this case, the
Secretary responsible for carrying out the student-loan programs
forgave student loans in a national emergency under the core
provision of a recently enacted statute empowering him to provide
student-loan relief in national emergencies.[3] Today’s decision thus moves the goalposts
for triggering the major-questions doctrine. Who knows—by
next year, the Secretary of Health and Human Services may be found
unable to implement the Medicare program under a broad delegation
because of his actions’ (enormous) “economic
impact.” Ante, at 21.

															To justify this use of its
heightened-specificity requirement, the majority relies largely on
history: “[P]ast waivers and modifications,” the
majority argues, “have been extremely modest.”
Ante, at 20. But first, it depends what you think is
“past.” One prior action, nowhere counted by the
majority, is the suspension of loan payments and interest accrual
begun in COVID’s first days. That action cost the Federal
Government over $100 billion, and benefited many more borrowers
than the forgiveness plan at issue. See supra, at 21. And
second, it’s all relative. Past actions were more modest
because the precipitating emergencies were more modest. (The COVID
emergency generated, all told, over $5 trillion in
Government relief spending.) In providing more significant relief
for a more significant emergency—or call it unprecedented
relief for an unprecedented emergency—the Secretary did what
the HEROES Act contemplates. Imagine asking the enacting Congress:
Can the Secretary use his powers to give borrowers more relief when
an emergency has inflicted greater harm? I can’t believe the
majority really thinks Congress would have answered
“no.” In any event, the statute Congress passed does
not say “no.” Delegations like the HEROES Act are
designed to enable agencies to “adapt their rules and
policies to the demands of changing circumstances.”
FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.,
529 U.S.
120, 157 (2000). Congress allows, and indeed expects, agencies
to take more serious measures in response to more serious
problems.

															Similarly unavailing is the majority’s
reliance on the controversy surrounding the program. Student-loan
cancellation, the majority says, “raises questions that are
personal and emotionally charged,” precipitating
“profound debate across the country.” Ante, at
22. I have no quarrel with that description. Student-loan
forgiveness, and responses to COVID generally, have joined the list
of issues on which this Nation is divided. But that provides yet
more reason for the Court to adhere to its properly limited role.
There are two paths here. One is to respect the political
branches’ judgments. On that path, the Court recognizes the
breadth of Congress’s delegation to the Secretary, and
declines to interfere with his use of that granted authority. Maybe
Congress was wrong to give the Secretary so much discretion; or
maybe he, and the President he serves, did not make good use of it.
But if so, there are political remedies—accountability for
all the actors, up to the President, who the public thinks have
made mistakes. So a political controversy is resolved by political
means, as our Constitution requires. That is one path. Now here is
the other, the one the Court takes. Wielding its judicially
manufactured heightened-specificity requirement, the Court refuses
to acknowledge the plain words of the HEROES Act. It declines to
respect Congress’s decision to give broad emergency powers to
the Secretary. It strikes down his lawful use of that authority to
provide student-loan assistance. It does not let the political
system, with its mechanisms of accountability, operate as normal.
It makes itself the decisionmaker on, of all things, federal
student-loan policy. And then, perchance, it wonders why it has
only compounded the “sharp debates” in the country?
Ibid.

															III

															From the first page to the last, today’s
opinion departs from the demands of judicial restraint. At the
behest of a party that has suffered no injury, the majority decides
a contested public policy issue properly belonging to the
politically accountable branches and the people they represent. In
saying so, and saying so strongly, I do not at all
“disparage[ ]” those who disagree. Ante, at
26. The majority is right to make that point, as well as to say
that “[r]easonable minds” are found on both sides of
this case. Ante, at 25. And there is surely nothing personal
in the dispute here. But Justices throughout history have raised
the alarm when the Court has overreached—when it has
“exceed[ed] its proper, limited role in our Nation’s
governance.” Supra, at 1. It would have been
“disturbing,” and indeed damaging, if they had not.
Ante, at 25. The same is true in our own day.

															The majority’s opinion begins by
distorting standing doctrine to create a case fit for judicial
resolution. But there is no such case here, by any ordinary
measure. The Secretary’s plan has not injured the
plaintiff-States, however much they oppose it. And in that respect,
Missouri is no different from any of the others. Missouri does not
suffer any harm from a revenue loss to MOHELA, because the two
entities are legally and financially independent. And MOHELA has
chosen not to sue—which of course it could have. So no proper
party is before the Court. A court acting like a court would have
said as much and stopped.

															The opinion ends by applying the Court’s
made-up major-questions doctrine to jettison the Secretary’s
loan forgiveness plan. Small wonder the majority invokes the
doctrine. The majority’s “normal” statutory
interpretation cannot sustain its decision. The statute, read as
written, gives the Secretary broad authority to relieve a national
emergency’s effect on borrowers’ ability to repay their
student loans. The Secretary did no more than use that lawfully
delegated authority. So the majority applies a rule specially
crafted to kill significant regulatory action, by requiring
Congress to delegate not just clearly but also micro- specifically.
The question, the majority maintains, is “who has the
authority” to decide whether such a significant action should
go forward. Ante, at 19; see supra, at 23. The right
answer is the political branches: Congress in broadly authorizing
loan relief, the Secretary and the President in using that
authority to implement the forgiveness plan. The majority instead
says that it is theirs to decide.

															So in a case not a case, the majority overrides
the combined judgment of the Legislative and Executive Branches,
with the consequence of eliminating loan forgiveness for 43 million
Americans. I respectfully dissent from that decision.

Notes
1
 The same goes for the
majority’s other case about Amtrak, which just
“reiterate[s]” Lebron’s reasoning.
Ante, at 11; see Department of Transportation v.
Association of American Railroads, 575 U.S. 43 (2015). There
too we held that Amtrak was a “governmental entity” for
purposes of the “requirements of the
Constitution”—specifically, the nondelegation doctrine.
Id., at 54. And there too we kept our holding as limited as
possible, repeatedly stating that we were treating Amtrak as the
Government for that purpose alone. See, e.g., id., at
51 (“for purposes of separation-of-powers analysis under the
Constitution”); id., at 54 (“for purposes of the
Constitution’s separation of powers provisions”);
id., at 55 (“for purposes of determining the
constitutional issues presented in this case”). As for any
other purpose? Not a word to suggest the same result. And as even
the majority concedes, “a public corporation can count as
part of the State for some but not other purposes.”
Ante, at 12, n. 3 (internal quotation marks omitted).
The Amtrak decisions, to continue borrowing the majority’s
language, “said nothing about, and had no reason to address,
whether an injury to [a] public corporation is a harm to the
[Government].” Ibid.
2
 More specifically, the
Secretary determined that without a loan discharge, borrowers
making less than $125,000 are likely to experience higher
delinquency and default rates because of the pandemic’s
economic effects. See App. 234–242, 257–259. In a
puzzling footnote, the majority expresses doubt about that finding,
though says that its skepticism plays no role in its decision. See
ante, at 18–19, n. 6. Far better if the majority
had ruled on that alternative ground. Then, the Court’s
invalidation of the Secretary’s plan would not have neutered
the statute for all future uses. But in any event, the skepticism
is unwarranted. All the majority says to support it is that the
current “paus[e]” on “interest accrual and loan
repayments” could achieve the same end. Ibid. But the
majority gives no reason for concluding that the pause would work
just as well to ensure that borrowers are not “placed in a
worse position financially in relation to” their loans
because of the COVID emergency. §1098bb(a)(2)(A). How could it
possibly know? And in any event, the majority’s view of the
statute would also make the pause unlawful, as later discussed. See
infra, at 21. So the availability of the pause can hardly
provide a basis for the majority’s questioning of the
Secretary’s finding that cancellation is
necessary.
3
 The nature of the
delegation here poses a particular challenge for Justice Barrett,
given her distinctive understanding of the major-questions
doctrine. In her thoughtful concurrence, she notes the
“importance of context when a court interprets a
delegation to an administrative agency.” Ante, at 2
(emphasis in original). I agree, and have said so; there are,
indeed, some significant overlaps between my and Justice
Barrett’s views on properly contextual interpretation of
delegation provisions. See West Virginia, 597 U. S., at
___–___ (dissenting opinion) (slip op., at 14–19). But
then consider two of the contextual factors Justice Barrett views
as “telltale sign[s]” of whether an agency has exceeded
the scope of a delegation. Ante, at 12. First, she asks, is
there a “mismatch[ ]” between a “backwater
provision” or “subtle device” and an
agency’s exercise of power? Ibid. And second, is the
agency official operating within or “outside [his]
wheelhouse”? Ante, at 12–13. Here, for the
reasons stated above, there is no mismatch: The broadly worded
“waive or modify” delegation IS the HEROES Act, not
some tucked away ancillary provision. And as Justice Barrett
agrees, “this is not a case where the agency is operating
entirely outside its usual domain.” Ante, at 15. So I
could practically rest my case on Justice Barrett’s
reasoning.


