::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-506
::decision_name::  Biden v. Nebraska
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Barrett
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–506

															_________________

															Joseph R. Biden, President of the United
States, et al., PETITIONERS v. Nebraska,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari before judgment to the
united states court of appeals for the eighth circuit

															[June 30, 2023]

															

															Justice Barrett, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full. I
write separately to address the States’ argument that, under
the “major questions doctrine,” we can uphold the
Secretary of Education’s loan cancellation program only if he
points to “ ‘clear congressional
authorization’ ” for it. West Virginia v.
EPA, 597 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at 19). In
this case, the Court applies the ordinary tools of statutory
interpretation to conclude that the HEROES Act does not authorize
the Secretary’s plan. Ante, at 12–18. The major
questions doctrine reinforces that conclusion but is not necessary
to it. Ante, at 25.

															Still, the parties have devoted significant
attention to the major questions doctrine, and there is an ongoing
debate about its source and status. I take seriously the charge
that the doctrine is inconsistent with textualism. West
Virginia, 597 U. S., at ___ (Kagan, J., dissenting) (slip
op., at 28) (“When [textualism] would frustrate broader
goals, special canons like the ‘major questions
doctrine’ magically appear as get-out-of-text-free
cards”). And I grant that some articulations of the major
questions doctrine on offer—most notably, that the doctrine
is a substantive canon—should give a textualist pause.

															Yet for the reasons that follow, I do not see
the major questions doctrine that way. Rather, I understand it to
emphasize the importance of context when a court interprets
a delegation to an administrative agency. Seen in this light, the
major questions doctrine is a tool for discerning—not
departing from—the text’s most natural
interpretation.

															I

															A

															Substantive canons are rules of construction
that advance values external to a statute.[1] A. Barrett, Substantive Canons and Faithful Agency,
90 B. U. L. Rev. 109, 117 (2010) (Barrett). Some
substantive canons, like the rule of lenity, play the modest role
of breaking a tie between equally plausible interpretations of a
statute. United States v. Santos, 553 U.S.
507, 514 (2008) (plurality opinion). Others are more
aggressive—think of them as strong-form substantive canons.
Unlike a tie-breaking rule, a strong-form canon counsels a court to
strain statutory text to advance a particular value. Barrett
168. There are many such canons on the books, including
constitutional avoidance, the clear-statement federalism rules, and
the presumption against retroactivity. Id., at
138–145, 172–173. Such rules effectively impose a
“clarity tax” on Congress by demanding that it speak
unequivocally if it wants to accomplish certain ends. J. Manning,
Clear Statement Rules and the Constitution, 110 Colum. L. Rev.
399, 403 (2010). This “clear statement” requirement
means that the better interpretation of a statute will not
necessarily prevail. E.g., Boechler v.
Commissioner, 596 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at
6) (“[I]n this context, better is not enough”).
Instead, if the better reading leads to a disfavored result (like
provoking a serious constitutional question), the court will adopt
an inferior-but-tenable reading to avoid it. So to achieve an end
protected by a strong-form canon, Congress must close all plausible
off ramps.

															While many strong-form canons have a long
historical pedigree, they are “in significant tension with
textualism” insofar as they instruct a court to adopt
something other than the statute’s most natural meaning.
Barrett 123–124. The usual textualist enterprise involves
“hear[ing] the words as they would sound in the mind of a
skilled, objectively reasonable user of words.” F.
Easterbrook, The Role of Original Intent in Statutory Construction,
11 Harv. J. L. & Pub. Pol’y 59, 65 (1988). But a
strong-form canon “load[s] the dice for or against a
particular result” in order to serve a value that the
judiciary has chosen to specially protect. A. Scalia, A Matter of
Interpretation 27 (1997) (Scalia); see also Barrett 124,
168–169. Even if the judiciary’s adoption of such
canons can be reconciled with the Constitution,[2] it is undeniable that they pose “a lot of
trouble” for “the honest textualist.” Scalia
28.

															B

															Some have characterized the major questions
doctrine as a strong-form substantive canon designed to enforce
Article I’s Vesting Clause. See, e.g., C. Sunstein,
There Are Two “Major Questions” Doctrines, 73 Admin.
L. Rev. 475, 483–484 (2021) (asserting that recent cases
apply the major questions doctrine as “a nondelegation
canon”); L. Heinzerling, The Power Canons, 58 Wm. & Mary
L. Rev. 1933, 1946–1948 (2017) (describing the major
questions doctrine as a “normative” canon that
“is both a presumption against certain kinds of agency
interpretations and an instruction to Congress”). On this
view, the Court overprotects the nondelegation principle by
increasing the cost of delegating authority to
agencies—namely, by requiring Congress to speak unequivocally
in order to grant them significant rule- making power. See Barrett
172–176; see also post, at 27 (Kagan, J.,
dissenting) (describing the major questions doctrine as a
“heightened-specificity requirement”); Georgia
v. President of the United States, 46 F. 4th 1283, 1314
(CA11 2022) (Anderson, J., concurring in part and dissenting in
part) (“[T]he major questions doctrine is essentially a
clear-statement rule”). This “clarity tax” might
prevent Congress from getting too close to the nondelegation line,
especially since the “intelligible principle” test
largely leaves Congress to self-police. (So the doctrine would
function like constitutional avoidance.) In addition or instead,
the doctrine might reflect the judgment that it is so important for
Congress to exercise “[a]ll legislative Powers,” Art.
I, §1, that it should be forced to think twice before
delegating substantial discretion to agencies—even if the
delegation is well within Congress’s power to make. (So the
doctrine would function like the rule that Congress must speak
clearly to abrogate state sovereign immunity.) No matter which
rationale justifies it, this “clear statement” version
of the major questions doctrine “loads the dice” so
that a plausible antidelegation interpretation wins even if the
agency’s interpretation is better.

															While one could walk away from our major
questions cases with this impression, I do not read them this way.
No doubt, many of our cases express an expectation of “clear
congressional authorization” to support sweeping agency
action. See, e.g., West Virginia, 597 U. S., at
___ (slip op., at 19); Utility Air Regulatory Group v.
EPA, 573 U.S.
302, 324 (2014); see also Alabama Assn. of Realtors v.
Department of Health and Human Servs., 594 U. S. ___,
___ (2021) (per curiam) (slip op., at 6). But none
requires “an ‘unequivocal
declaration’ ” from Congress authorizing the
precise agency action under review, as our clear-statement
cases do in their respective domains. See Financial Oversight
and Management Bd. for P. R. v. Centro De Periodismo
Investigativo, Inc., 598 U. S. ___, ___ (2023) (slip op.,
at 6). And none purports to depart from the best interpretation of
the text—the hallmark of a true clear-statement rule.

															So what work is the major questions doctrine
doing in these cases? I will give you the long answer, but here is
the short one: The doctrine serves as an interpretive tool
reflecting “common sense as to the manner in which Congress
is likely to delegate a policy decision of such economic and
political magnitude to an administrative agency.” FDA
v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U.S.
120, 133 (2000).

															II

															The major questions doctrine situates text in
context, which is how textualists, like all interpreters, approach
the task at hand. C. Nelson, What Is Textualism? 91 Va.
L. Rev. 347, 348 (2005) (“[N]o ‘textualist’
favors isolating statutory language from its surrounding
context”); Scalia 37 (“In textual interpretation,
context is everything”). After all, the meaning of a word
depends on the circumstances in which it is used. J. Manning, The
Absurdity Doctrine, 116 Harv. L. Rev. 2387, 2457 (2003)
(Manning). To strip a word from its context is to strip that word
of its meaning.

															Context is not found exclusively
“ ‘within the four corners’ of a
statute.” Id., at 2456. Background legal conventions,
for instance, are part of the statute’s context. F.
Easterbrook, The Case of the Speluncean Explorers: Revisited, 112
Harv. L. Rev. 1876, 1913 (1999) (“Language takes meaning
from its linguistic context,” as well as “historical
and governmental contexts”). Thus, courts apply a presumption
of mens rea to criminal statutes, Xiulu Ruan v.
United States, 597 U. S. ___, ___ (2022) (slip op., at
5), and a presumption of equitable tolling to statutes of
limitations, Irwin v. Department of Veterans Affairs,
498 U.S.
89, 95–96 (1990). It is also well established that
“[w]here Congress employs a term of art obviously
transplanted from another legal source, it brings the old soil with
it.” George v. McDonough, 596 U. S. ___,
___ (2022) (slip op., at 5) (internal quotation marks omitted). I
could go on. See, e.g., Lexmark Int’l, Inc. v.
Static Control Components, Inc., 572
U.S. 118, 132 (2014) (federal causes of action are construed
“to incorporate a requirement of proximate causation”);
Wisconsin Dept. of Revenue v. William Wrigley, Jr.,
Co., 505 U.S.
214, 231 (1992) (“de minimis non curat
lex”). As it happens, “[t]he notion that some
things ‘go without saying’ applies to legislation just
as it does to everyday life.” Bond v. United
States, 572 U.S.
844, 857 (2014).

															Context also includes common sense, which is
another thing that “goes without saying.” Case
reporters and casebooks brim with illustrations of why
literalism—the antithesis of context-driven
interpretation—falls short. Consider the classic example of a
statute imposing criminal penalties on “ ‘whoever
drew blood in the streets.’ ” United States
v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482, 487 (1869). Read literally, the
statute would cover a surgeon accessing a vein of a person in the
street. But “common sense” counsels otherwise,
ibid., because in the context of the criminal code, a
reasonable observer would “expect the term ‘drew
blood’ to describe a violent act,” Manning 2461. Common
sense similarly bears on judgments like whether a floating home is
a “vessel,” Lozman v. Riviera Beach,
568 U.S.
115, 120–121 (2013), whether tomatoes are
“vegetables,” Nix v. Hedden, 149 U.S.
304, 306–307 (1893), and whether a skin irritant is a
“chemical weapon,” Bond, 572 U. S., at
860–862.

															Why is any of this relevant to the major
questions doctrine? Because context is also relevant to
interpreting the scope of a delegation. Think about agency law,
which is all about delegations. When an agent acts on behalf of a
principal, she “has actual authority to take action
designated or implied in the principal’s manifestations to
the agent . . . as the agent reasonably understands
[those] manifestations.” Restatement (Third) of Agency
§2.02(1) (2005). Whether an agent’s understanding is
reasonable depends on “[t]he context in which the
principal and agent interact,” including their “[p]rior
dealings,” industry “customs and usages,” and
“the nature of the principal’s business or the
principal’s personal situation.” Id.,
§2.02, Comment e (emphasis added). With that in mind,
imagine that a grocer instructs a clerk to “go to the orchard
and buy apples for the store.” Though this grant of
apple-purchasing authority sounds unqualified, a reasonable clerk
would know that there are limits. For example, if the grocer
usually keeps 200 apples on hand, the clerk does not have actual
authority to buy 1,000—the grocer would have spoken more
directly if she meant to authorize such an out-of-the-ordinary
purchase. A clerk who disregards context and stretches the words to
their fullest will not have a job for long.

															This is consistent with how we communicate
conversationally. Consider a parent who hires a babysitter to watch
her young children over the weekend. As she walks out the door, the
parent hands the babysitter her credit card and says: “Make
sure the kids have fun.” Emboldened, the babysitter takes the
kids on a road trip to an amusement park, where they spend two days
on rollercoasters and one night in a hotel. Was the
babysitter’s trip consistent with the parent’s
instruction? Maybe in a literal sense, because the instruction was
open-ended. But was the trip consistent with a reasonable
understanding of the parent’s instruction? Highly doubtful.
In the normal course, permission to spend money on fun authorizes a
babysitter to take children to the local ice cream parlor or movie
theater, not on a multiday excursion to an out-of-town amusement
park. If a parent were willing to greenlight a trip that big, we
would expect much more clarity than a general instruction to
“make sure the kids have fun.”

															But what if there is more to the story? Perhaps
there is obvious contextual evidence that the babysitter’s
jaunt was permissible—for example, maybe the parent left
tickets to the amusement park on the counter. Other clues, though
less obvious, can also demonstrate that the babysitter took a
reasonable view of the parent’s instruction. Perhaps the
parent showed the babysitter where the suitcases are, in the event
that she took the children somewhere overnight. Or maybe the parent
mentioned that she had budgeted $2,000 for weekend entertainment.
Indeed, some relevant points of context may not have been
communicated by the parent at all. For instance, we might view the
parent’s statement differently if this babysitter had taken
the children on such trips before or if the babysitter were a
grandparent.

															In my view, the major questions doctrine grows
out of these same commonsense principles of communication. Just as
we would expect a parent to give more than a general instruction if
she intended to authorize a babysitter-led getaway, we also
“expect Congress to speak clearly if it wishes to assign to
an agency decisions of vast ‘economic and political
significance.’ ” Utility Air, 573
U. S., at 324. That clarity may come from specific words in
the statute, but context can also do the trick. Surrounding
circumstances, whether contained within the statutory scheme or
external to it, can narrow or broaden the scope of a delegation to
an agency.

															This expectation of clarity is rooted in the
basic premise that Congress normally “intends to make major
policy decisions itself, not leave those decisions to
agencies.” United States Telecom Assn. v. FCC,
855 F.3d 381, 419 (CADC 2017) (Kavanaugh, J., dissenting from
denial of reh’g en banc). Or, as Justice Breyer once
observed, “Congress is more likely to have focused upon, and
answered, major questions, while leaving interstitial matters [for
agencies] to answer themselves in the course of a statute’s
daily administration.” S. Breyer, Judicial Review of
Questions of Law and Policy, 38 Admin. L. Rev. 363, 370
(1986); see also A. Gluck & L. Bressman, Statutory
Interpretation From the Inside—An Empirical Study of
Congressional Drafting, Delegation, and the Canons: Part I, 65
Stan. L. Rev. 901, 1003–1006 (2013). That makes eminent
sense in light of our constitutional structure, which is itself
part of the legal context framing any delegation. Because the
Constitution vests Congress with “[a]ll legislative
Powers,” Art. I, §1, a reasonable interpreter would
expect it to make the big-time policy calls itself, rather than
pawning them off to another branch. See West Virginia, 597
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19) (explaining that the major
questions doctrine rests on “both separation of powers
principles and a practical understanding of legislative
intent”).

															Crucially, treating the Constitution’s
structure as part of the context in which a delegation occurs is
not the same as using a clear-statement rule to overenforce
Article I’s nondelegation principle (which, again, is the
rationale behind the substantive-canon view of the major questions
doctrine). My point is simply that in a system of separated powers,
a reasonably informed interpreter would expect Congress to
legislate on “important subjects” while delegating away
only “the details.” Wayman v. Southard,
10 Wheat. 1, 43 (1825). That is different from a normative rule
that discourages Congress from empowering agencies. To see
what I mean, return to the ambitious babysitter. Our expectation of
clearer authorization for the amusement-park trip is not about
discouraging the parent from giving significant leeway to the
babysitter or forcing the parent to think hard before doing so.
Instead, it reflects the intuition that the parent is in charge and
sets the terms for the babysitter—so if a judgment is
significant, we expect the parent to make it. If, by contrast, one
parent left the children with the other parent for the weekend, we
would view the same trip differently because the parents share
authority over the children. In short, the balance of power between
those in a relationship inevitably frames our understanding of
their communications. And when it comes to the Nation’s
policy, the Constitution gives Congress the reins—a point of
context that no reasonable interpreter could ignore.

															Given these baseline assumptions, an interpreter
should “typically greet” an agency’s claim to
“extravagant statutory power” with at least some
“measure of skepticism.” Utility Air, 573
U. S., at 324. That skepticism is neither
“made-up” nor “new.” Post, at 24, 29
(Kagan, J., dissenting). On the contrary, it appears in a line
of decisions spanning at least 40 years. E.g., King
v. Burwell, 576 U.S. 473, 485–486 (2015);
Gonzales v. Oregon, 546 U.S.
243, 267–268 (2006); Brown & Williamson, 529
U. S., at 159–160; Industrial Union Dept.,
AFL–CIO v. American Petroleum Institute, 448 U.S.
607, 645 (1980) (plurality opinion).[3]

															Still, this skepticism does not mean that courts
have an obligation (or even permission) to choose an
inferior-but-tenable alternative that curbs the agency’s
authority—and that marks a key difference between my view and
the “clear statement” view of the major questions
doctrine. In some cases, the court’s initial skepticism might
be overcome by text directly authorizing the agency action or
context demonstrating that the agency’s interpretation is
convincing. (And because context can suffice, I disagree with
Justice Kagan’s critique that “[t]he doctrine forces
Congress to delegate in highly specific terms.” Post,
at 24.) If so, the court must adopt the agency’s reading
despite the “majorness” of the question.[4] In other cases, however, the court might
conclude that the agency’s expansive reading, even if
“plausible,” is not the best. West Virginia, 597
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 19). In that event, the major
questions doctrine plays a role, because it helps explain the
court’s conclusion that the agency overreached.

															Consider Brown & Williamson, in which
we rejected the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA’s)
determination that tobacco products were within its regulatory
purview. 529 U. S., at 131. The agency’s assertion of
authority—which depended on the argument that nicotine is a
“ ‘drug’ ” and that cigarettes
and smokeless tobacco are “ ‘drug delivery
devices’ ”—would have been plausible if the
relevant statutory text were read in a vacuum. Ibid. But a
vacuum is no home for a textualist. Instead, we stressed that the
“meaning” of a word or phrase “may only become
evident when placed in context.” Id., at 132
(emphasis added). And the critical context in Brown &
Williamson was tobacco’s “unique political
history”: the FDA’s longstanding disavowal of authority
to regulate it, Congress’s creation of “a distinct
regulatory scheme for tobacco products,” and the tobacco
industry’s “significant” role in “the
American economy.” Id., at 159–160. In light of
those considerations, we concluded that “Congress could not
have intended to delegate a decision of such economic and political
significance to an agency in so cryptic a fashion.”
Id., at 160.

															We have also been “[s]keptical of
mismatches” between broad “invocations of power by
agencies” and relatively narrow “statutes that purport
to delegate that power.” In re MCP No. 165, OSHA,
Interim Final Rule: Covid–19 Vaccination and Testing, 20
F. 4th 264, 272 (CA6 2021) (Sutton, C. J., dissenting from
denial of initial hearing en banc). Just as an instruction to
“pick up dessert” is not permission to buy a four-tier
wedding cake, Congress’s use of a “subtle device”
is not authorization for agency action of “enormous
importance.” MCI Telecommunications Corp. v.
American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 512 U.S.
218, 231 (1994); cf. Whitman v. American Trucking
Assns., Inc., 531 U.S.
457, 468 (2001) (Congress does not “hide elephants in
mouseholes”). This principle explains why the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC’s) general
authority to “ ‘prevent the . . . spread
of communicable diseases’ ” did not authorize a
nationwide eviction moratorium. Alabama Assn. of Realtors,
594 U. S., at ___–___, ___ (slip op., at 2–3, 6).
The statute, we observed, was a “wafer-thin reed” that
could not support the assertion of “such sweeping
power.” Id., at ___ (slip op., at 7). Likewise, in
West Virginia, we held that a “little-used
backwater” provision in the Clean Air Act could not justify
an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) rule that would
“restructur[e] the Nation’s overall mix of electricity
generation.” 597 U. S., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 16,
26).

															Another telltale sign that an agency may have
transgressed its statutory authority is when it regulates outside
its wheelhouse. For instance, in Gonzales v. Oregon,
we rebuffed an interpretive rule from the Attorney General that
restricted the use of controlled substances in physician-assisted
suicide. 546 U. S., at 254, 275. This judgment, we explained,
was a medical one that lay beyond the Attorney General’s
expertise, and so a sturdier source of statutory authority than
“an implicit delegation” was required. Id., at
267–268. Likewise, in King v. Burwell, we
blocked the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS’s) attempt
to decide whether the Affordable Care Act’s tax credits could
be available on federally established exchanges. 576 U. S., at
485–486. Among other things, the IRS’s lack of
“expertise in crafting health insurance policy” made us
think that “had Congress wished to assign that question to an
agency, it surely would have done so expressly.” Id.,
at 486. Echoing the theme, our reasoning in Alabama Association
of Realtors rested partly on the fact that the CDC’s
eviction moratorium “intrude[d] into . . . the
landlord-tenant relationship”—hardly the day-in,
day-out work of a public-health agency. 594 U. S., at ___
(slip op., at 6). National Federation of Independent
Business v. OSHA is of a piece. 595 U. S. ___
(2022) (per curiam). There, we held that the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s
(OSHA’s) authority to ensure “ ‘safe and
healthful working conditions’ ” did not encompass
the power to mandate the vaccination of employees; as we explained,
the statute empowered the agency “to set workplace
safety standards, not broad public health measures.”
Id., at ___, ___ (slip op., at 2, 6). The shared intuition
behind these cases is that a reasonable speaker would not
understand Congress to confer an unusual form of authority without
saying more.

															We have also pumped the brakes when “an
agency claims to discover in a long-extant statute an unheralded
power to regulate ‘a significant portion of the American
economy.’ ” Utility Air, 573 U. S., at
324. Of course, an agency’s post-enactment conduct does not
control the meaning of a statute, but “this Court has long
said that courts may consider the consistency of an agency’s
views when we weigh the persuasiveness of any interpretation it
proffers in court.” Bittner v. United States,
598 U.S. 85, 97 (2023) (citing Skidmore v. Swift &
Co., 323 U.S.
134, 140 (1944)). The agency’s track record can be
particularly probative in this context: A longstanding “want
of assertion of power by those who presumably would be alert to
exercise it” may provide some clue that the power was never
conferred. FTC v. Bunte Brothers, Inc., 312 U.S.
349, 352 (1941). Once again, Brown & Williamson is a
good example. There, we balked at the FDA’s novel attempt to
regulate tobacco in part because this move was “[c]ontrary to
its representations to Congress since 1914.” 529 U. S.,
at 159. And in Utility Air, we were dubious when the EPA
discovered “newfound authority” in the Clean Air Act
that would have allowed it to require greenhouse-gas permits for
“millions of small sources—including retail stores,
offices, apartment buildings, shopping centers, schools, and
churches.” 573 U. S., at 328.

															If the major questions doctrine were a
substantive canon, then the common thread in these cases would be
that we “exchange[d] the most natural reading of a statute
for a bearable one more protective of a judicially specified
value.” Barrett 111. But by my lights, the Court arrived at
the most plausible reading of the statute in these cases. To be
sure, “[a]ll of these regulatory assertions had a colorable
textual basis.” West Virginia, 597 U. S., at ___
(slip op., at 18). In each case, we could have “[p]ut on
blinders” and confined ourselves to the four corners of the
statute, and we might have reached a different outcome.
Sykes v. United States, 564 U.S.
1, 43 (2011) (Kagan, J., dissenting). Instead, we took
“off those blinders,” “view[ed] the statute as a
whole,” ibid., and considered context that would be
important to a reasonable observer. With the full picture in view,
it became evident in each case that the agency’s assertion of
“highly consequential power” went “beyond what
Congress could reasonably be understood to have granted.”
West Virginia, 597 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 20).

															III

															As for today’s case: The Court surely
could have “hi[t] the send button,” post, at 23
(Kagan, J., dissenting), after the routine statutory analysis
set out in Part III–A. But it is nothing new for a court to
punctuate its conclusion with an additional point, and the major
questions doctrine is a good one here. Ante, at 25,
n. 9. It is obviously true that the Secretary’s loan
cancellation program has “vast ‘economic and political
significance.’ ” Utility Air, 573
U. S., at 324. That matters not because agencies are incapable
of making highly consequential decisions, but rather because an
initiative of this scope, cost, and political salience is not the
type that Congress lightly delegates to an agency. And for the
reasons given by the Court, the HEROES Act provides no indication
that Congress empowered the Secretary to do anything of the sort.
Ante, at 12–18, 25.

															Granted, some context clues from past major
questions cases are absent here—for example, this is not a
case where the agency is operating entirely outside its usual
domain. But the doctrine is not an on-off switch that flips when a
critical mass of factors is present—again, it simply reflects
“common sense as to the manner in which Congress is likely to
delegate a policy decision of such economic and political
magnitude.” Brown & Williamson, 529 U. S., at
133. Common sense tells us that as more indicators from our
previous major questions cases are present, the less likely it is
that Congress would have delegated the power to the agency without
saying so more clearly.

															Here, enough of those indicators are present to
demonstrate that the Secretary has gone far “beyond what
Congress could reasonably be understood to have granted” in
the HEROES Act. West Virginia, 597 U. S., at ___ (slip
op., at 20). Our decision today does not “trump” the
statutory text, nor does it make this Court the
“arbiter” of “national policy.”
Post, at 24–25 (Kagan, J., dissenting). Instead,
it gives Congress’s words their best reading.

															*  *  *

															The major questions doctrine has an important
role to play when courts review agency action of “vast
‘economic and political significance.’ ”
Utility Air, 573 U. S., at 324. But the doctrine should
not be taken for more than it is—the familiar principle that
we do not interpret a statute for all it is worth when a reasonable
person would not read it that way.

Notes
1
 They stand in contrast to
linguistic or descriptive canons, which are designed to reflect
grammatical rules (such as the punctuation canon) or speech
patterns (like the inclusion of some things implies the exclusion
of others). A. Barrett, Substantive Canons and Faithful Agency, 90
B. U. L. Rev. 109, 117 (2010).
2
 Whether the creation or
application of strong-form canons exceeds the “judicial
Power” conferred by Article III is a difficult question. On
the one hand, “federal courts have been developing and
applying [such] canons for as long as they have been interpreting
statutes,” and that is some reason to regard the practice as
consistent with the original understanding of the “judicial
Power.” Barrett 155, 176. Moreover, many strong-form canons
advance constitutional values, which heightens their claim to
legitimacy. Id., at 168–170. On the other hand, these
canons advance constitutional values by imposing prophylactic
constraints on Congress—and that is in tension with the
Constitution’s structure. Id., at 174, 176. Thus, even
assuming that the federal courts have not overstepped by adopting
such canons in the past, I am wary of adopting new ones—and
if the major questions doctrine were a newly minted strong-form
canon, I would not embrace it. In my view, however, the major
questions doctrine is neither new nor a strong-form
canon.
3
 Indeed, the doctrine may
have even deeper roots. See ICC v. Cincinnati, N. O.
& T. P. R. Co., 167 U.S.
479, 494–495 (1897) (explaining that for agency
assertions of “vast and comprehensive” power, “no
just rule of construction would tolerate a grant of such power by
mere implication”).
4
 I am dealing only with
statutory interpretation, not the separate argument that a
statutory delegation exceeds constitutional limits. See
Whitman v. American Trucking Assns., Inc., 531 U.S.
457, 474 (2001) (describing a delegation held unconstitutional
because it “conferred authority to regulate the entire
economy on the basis of ” an imprecise
standard).


