::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 22-96
::decision_name::  Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico v. Centro De Periodismo Investigativo, Inc.
::decision_year:: 2023
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the United States
Reports. Readers are requested to notify the Reporter of
Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States, Washington,
D. C. 20543, pio.supremecourt.gov, of any typographical or
other formal errors.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 22–96

															_________________

															FINANCIAL OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT BOARD FOR
PUERTO RICO, PETITIONER v. CENTRO DE PERIODISMO
INVESTIGATIVO, INC.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the first circuit

															[May 11, 2023]

															

															Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the
Court.

															A recently enacted federal statute establishes a
financial oversight board within the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico’s government. The question presented is whether the
statute categorically abrogates (legalspeak for eliminates) any
sovereign immunity the board enjoys from legal claims. We hold it
does not. Under long-settled law, Congress must use unmistakable
language to abrogate sovereign immunity. Nothing in the statute
creating the board meets that high bar.

															I

															Congress passed the Puerto Rico Oversight,
Management, and Economic Stability Act of 2016 (PROMESA), 48
U. S. C. §2101 et seq., to deal with a fiscal
emergency. Puerto Rico’s public debt had soared, to more than
the annual output of the island’s economy. The Commonwealth
could not service that level of debt through the bond markets. And
it was not eligible to restructure debt under the Federal
Bankruptcy Code. PROMESA offered a path out of the crisis, helping
Puerto Rico “to achieve fiscal responsibility and access to
the capital markets.” §2121(a). The idea was to set up a
system for overseeing Puerto Rico’s finances, while also
enabling the Commonwealth to gain bankruptcy protections similar to
those available under the Code. See Financial Oversight and
Management Bd. for Puerto Rico v. Aurelius Investment,
LLC, 590 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2020) (slip op., at
3–4).

															PROMESA creates, as its centerpiece, the
Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico—the
petitioner here. The statute describes the seven-member Board as an
“entity within the territorial government” of Puerto
Rico. §2121(c)(1). And this Court has affirmed that the
Board’s structure, duties, and powers make it “part of
the local Puerto Rican government.” Id., at ___ (slip
op., at 14). Under PROMESA, the Board approves and enforces the
Commonwealth’s fiscal plans and budgets, and supervises the
Commonwealth’s borrowing. See §§2141–2144,
2147. The Board also represents Puerto Rico in so-called Title III
cases—judicial proceedings, modeled on federal bankruptcy
proceedings, for restructuring the Commonwealth’s (and its
instrumentalities’) debt. See
§§2161–2177.

															With one exception, PROMESA says nothing
explicit about abrogating sovereign immunity. The exception is for
Title III cases, and comes via the Federal Bankruptcy Code. PROMESA
incorporates, as part of its mechanism for restructuring debt, the
Code’s express abrogation of sovereign immunity. See
§2161(a) (incorporating 11 U. S. C. §106 for
“case[s] under [Title III]”). But as to all other
matters PROMESA addresses, Congress did not mention sovereign
immunity. In particular, no provision states that it is abrogating
any immunity the Board possesses from legal claims.

															At the same time, several provisions of PROMESA
contemplate that, even outside the Title III context, the Board may
confront legal claims against it. Most fundamentally, Section
2126(a), entitled “Jurisdiction,” states that
“any action against the Oversight Board, and any action
otherwise arising out of ” PROMESA, “shall be
brought” in the Federal District Court sitting in Puerto
Rico.[1] And Section 2126(c)
anticipates that those actions may lead to orders “granting
declaratory or injunctive relief against the Oversight
Board”; under the provision, such orders cannot take effect
until the litigation is over.

															On the flipside, PROMESA sets certain limits on
litigation targeting the Board. Section 2125 forecloses monetary
liability against the Board, its members, and its employees for
“actions taken to carry out” the statute. And Section
2126(e) provides that no district court will have jurisdiction over
challenges to the Board’s “certification
determinations”—mainly, decisions approving Puerto
Rico’s fiscal plans and budgets. See §§2141(e),
2142(e) (describing those determinations).

															The suit before us demands that the Board
release various documents relating to its work. Respondent Centro
de Periodismo Investigativo, Inc. (CPI) is a nonprofit media
organization that has published many reports on Puerto Rico’s
fiscal crisis and the debt-restructuring process. In 2016, CPI
asked the Board to turn over a broad array of materials, including
communications between the Board’s members and Puerto Rican
and U. S. officials. When the request went unanswered, CPI
sued the Board in the Federal District Court in Puerto Rico. CPI
cited a provision of the Puerto Rican Constitution interpreted to
guarantee a right of access to public records. And it requested an
injunction ordering the records’ release.

															The Board moved to dismiss the suit on the
ground that, as an arm of the Puerto Rican government, it enjoys
sovereign immunity. The District Court denied the motion, reasoning
that Congress had abrogated the Board’s immunity in
PROMESA—particularly, in Section 2126(a)’s
jurisdictional provision. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 74a–76a.
While the parties fought over unresolved privilege issues, CPI
brought a second suit seeking another set of documents. The Board
again invoked sovereign immunity, and the court again denied the
defense. See id., at 56a–57a. Orders in both suits
were consolidated for appeal.

															The Court of Appeals for the First Circuit
affirmed the denial of immunity, over a dissent. See 35 F. 4th 1
(2022). The court began by citing Circuit precedent that Puerto
Rico (like a State or Indian tribe) enjoys sovereign immunity. It
then “assume[d] without deciding” that the Board shares
in Puerto Rico’s immunity, noting that CPI had not contested
that issue. Id., at 15. That was the Board’s final
piece of good news—for the court next held that PROMESA
abrogates the Board’s (assumed) immunity. Congress may
abrogate sovereign immunity, the court noted, “by making its
intention unmistakably clear in the language of the statute.”
Ibid. (quoting Kimel v. Florida Bd. of
Regents, 528 U.S.
62, 73 (2000)). And Congress had done so, the court held, in
Section 2126(a): The “grant of jurisdiction” there
“unequivocally stated [Congress’s] intention that the
Board could be sued” in federal district court. 35 F.
4th, at 17. The court found additional support for its
holding in Sections 2126(c) and (e). The former, the court
reasoned, “contemplates” orders of “declaratory
and injunctive relief ” against the Board. Ibid.
And the latter, in making certification challenges unreviewable,
“implies” that all other claims against the Board fall
within Section 2126(a)’s scope. Ibid. Judge Lynch
disagreed. She would have held that Congress had not adequately
“set[ ] forth an intent to abrogate” the
Board’s immunity, whether in Section 2126(a)’s
jurisdictional grant or in any other provision. Id., at
21.

															We granted certiorari, 598 U. S. ___
(2022), and now reverse.

															II

															The question on which we granted certiorari is
whether PROMESA—and particularly its jurisdictional
provision—abrogates the Board’s immunity. See Brief for
Oversight Board i. As thus framed, the question asks only about
abrogation, while taking the Board’s underlying immunity as a
given. That framing accords with how this case played out in the
courts below. Because Circuit precedent had settled Puerto
Rico’s own immunity, the lower courts barely addressed the
question. See, e.g., 35 F. 4th, at 13–14. Similarly
for the Board’s immunity. CPI never argued that the
Commonwealth’s immunity did not extend to the Board; and for
that reason, the courts below simply assumed the Board’s
immunity before turning to the abrogation issue. See, e.g.,
id., at 14–15. We took the case on those terms, and we
resolve it on those terms. See, e.g., Cutter v.
Wilkinson, 544 U.S.
709, 718, n. 7 (2005) (“[W]e are a court of review,
not of first view”). That means we assume without deciding
that Puerto Rico is immune from suit in federal district court, and
that the Board partakes of that immunity. We address only whether,
accepting those premises, PROMESA effects an abrogation.[2]

															The standard for finding a congressional
abrogation is stringent. Congress, this Court has often held, must
make its intent to abrogate sovereign immunity “unmistakably
clear in the language of the statute.” E.g.,
Kimel, 528 U. S., at 73 (internal quotation marks
omitted); see also Sossamon v. Texas, 563 U.S.
277, 287 (2011) (“[W]here a statute is susceptible of
multiple plausible interpretations,” we will not read it to
strip immunity). We have invoked that clear-statement rule, and
applied it equivalently, in cases naming the federal government,
States, and Indian tribes as defendants. See, e.g.,
FAA v. Cooper, 566 U.S.
284, 290–291 (2012); Kimel, 528 U. S., at 73;
Michigan v. Bay Mills Indian Community, 572 U.S.
782, 790 (2014).[3] CPI
argues that the rule should not likewise apply to Puerto Rico,
citing Congress’s plenary power over Territories. See Brief
for CPI 25–26 (“The concept of plenary power” is
“incompatible with forcing Congress to express its intent
unequivocally”). But we have similarly described
Congress’s power over the tribes, and still demand that
Congress “unequivocally express” an intent to abrogate
their immunity. Bay Mills, 572 U. S., at 790 (internal
quotation marks omitted); see ibid. (“Although
Congress has plenary authority over tribes, courts will not lightly
assume that Congress in fact intends” to abrogate their
immunity). Our precedent thus conveys a consistent message: If a
defendant enjoys sovereign immunity (which we are assuming the
Board does), abrogation requires an “unequivocal
declaration” from Congress. Dellmuth v. Muth,
491 U.S.
223, 232 (1989).

															The Court has found that standard met in only
two situations. The first is when a statute says in so many words
that it is stripping immunity from a sovereign entity. Congress,
for example, has provided that States “shall not be
immune,” under any “doctrine of sovereign immunity,
from suit in Federal court” for patent or copyright
infringement. 35 U. S. C. §296(a); 17
U. S. C. §511(a). Those provisions, we have noted,
“could not have made any clearer Congress’s
intent” to abrogate immunity. Allen v. Cooper,
589 U. S. ___, ___ (2020) (slip op., at 5) (internal quotation
marks and alterations omitted). The second is when a statute
creates a cause of action and authorizes suit against a government
on that claim. Take the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA)
or the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). We held that each
abrogated sovereign immunity by authorizing suits against
employers—specifically including governments—for
violating the statute’s provisions (i.e., for
discriminating or denying leave). See Kimel, 528 U. S.,
at 73–74; Nevada Dept. of Human Resources v.
Hibbs, 538 U.S.
721, 726 (2003). Or consider the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act
(IGRA). We likewise saw an abrogation in its authorization of
tribal suits against States for violating their statutory duty to
negotiate about gaming compacts. See Seminole Tribe of Fla.
v. Florida, 517 U.S.
44, 56–57 (1996). True enough, none of those Acts
expressly declared sovereigns non-immune (as the patent and
copyright laws did). But all expressly authorized suits against
sovereigns in service of enforcing statutory requirements. And
recognizing immunity would have negated those authorizations: The
very suits allowed against governments would automatically have
been dismissed.

															PROMESA fits neither of those two molds. Except
in Title III debt-restructuring proceedings (not at issue here),
the statute does not provide that the Board or Puerto Rico is
subject to suit. See supra, at 2. And indeed, the exception
implies the opposite as a general rule. The immunity provision that
PROMESA borrows from the Bankruptcy Code for Title III cases
states: “[S]overeign immunity is abrogated as to a
governmental unit,” including a “Territory.” 11
U. S. C. §106(a), incorporated by 48
U. S. C. §2161(a); 11 U. S. C.
§101(27). Congress chose not to adopt similar language to
govern other kinds of litigation involving the Board. See,
e.g., Badgerow v. Walters, 596 U. S. ___,
___ (2022) (slip op., at 8) (“When Congress includes
particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in
another section of the same Act, we generally take the choice to be
deliberate”). Too, PROMESA does not create any cause of
action (or otherwise approve any claim) for use against the Board
or Puerto Rico. So recognizing immunity under PROMESA would
not—as in the ADEA, FMLA, and IGRA cases—authorize a
suit against a sovereign with one hand, only to bar it with the
other. Instead, immunity would operate in the ordinary way—to
protect a sovereign from a host of claims Congress has not
otherwise said may proceed. The upshot is evident: Congress has
not, through a means we have recognized, “ma[de] its
intention” to abrogate immunity “unmistakably
clear.” Kimel, 528 U. S., at 73 (internal
quotation marks omitted).

															CPI contends we can still find a clear statement
in PROMESA, based on the statute’s establishment of a
judicial review scheme. The primary provision in CPI’s
argument (as in the First Circuit’s, see supra, at 4)
is Section 2126(a): “[A]ny action against the Oversight
Board, and any action otherwise arising out of ”
PROMESA, “shall be brought” in the Federal District
Court for Puerto Rico. In CPI’s view, that
provision—especially when combined with Section
2126(c)’s allusion to “declaratory or injunctive relief
against the Oversight Board”—expresses Congress’s
“clear intent to subject the Board to suit in federal
court.” Brief for CPI 16. CPI backs up that argument by
pointing to provisions insulating the Board (and its members and
employees) from monetary liability and barring suits challenging
the Board’s budgetary decisions. See id., at
15–16, 38–40; see supra, at 3. Those
protections, CPI maintains, would have no point “if the Board
were immune generally.” Brief for CPI 16. So taken together
(says CPI), PROMESA’s judicial review provisions are
“incompatible with sovereign immunity.” Id., at
35.

															But all those provisions serve a function
without our reading an abrogation of immunity into PROMESA. In
Sections 2126(a) and (c), Congress indeed contemplated the
possibility of suits—and of relief—against the Board.
And wisely so—because litigation against the Board can arise
even though the Board enjoys sovereign immunity generally. For one
thing, statutes other than PROMESA abrogate the Board’s
immunity from particular claims. See generally supra, at 7.
Consider Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, prohibiting various
kinds of employment discrimination. That law, this Court has held,
validly abrogates the immunity of “governments” and
“governmental agencies” from all actions it authorizes.
42 U. S. C. §§2000e(a)–(b); see
Fitzpatrick v. Bitzer, 427 U.S.
445, 447–448 (1976). So if a Board employee were fired
because of race, Section 2126(a) would tell him where to bring his
suit and Section 2126(c) would govern the timing of injunctive and
declaratory relief. And for another thing, the Board could decide
to waive its immunity from particular suits or claims. Were it to
do so, Sections 2126(a) and (c) would again kick in. So
PROMESA’s judicial review scheme—absent a categorical
abrogation of immunity—still has plenty of work to do. For
similar reasons, this Court has held that other jurisdictional and
judicial review provisions were insufficient to establish an
abrogation. See Blatchford v. Native Village of
Noatak, 501 U.S.
775, 786, and n. 4 (1991); Dellmuth, 491
U. S., at 231. Here, as there, providing for a judicial forum
does not make the requisite clear statement.

															Nor do the litigation protections in PROMESA
fill the gap. At the most basic level, it would be peculiar to read
shields from lawsuits as unmistakably subjecting the Board
to lawsuits (by abrogating immunity). But aside from that,
CPI is wrong to think that those shields would be
“pointless” or “superfluous” unless PROMESA
generally abrogates the Board’s immunity. Brief for CPI 38.
Consider first Section 2125’s protection of the Board, its
employees, and its members from monetary liability for carrying out
PROMESA. That provision would do work whenever, as discussed above,
some other law abrogated or waived the Board’s immunity from
specific claims. In such a case, the claim could go forward, but
Section 2125 would stop the award of money damages. Of particular
note, that section would limit the Board’s liability in Title
III cases, in which PROMESA has indeed abrogated immunity. See
supra, at 2. And last, Section 2125 protects
individuals—the Board’s members and
employees—not covered by the Board’s sovereign
immunity. All in all, that seems like more than enough to explain
the provision’s existence. Similarly for Section 2126(e),
which prevents challenges to the Board’s fiscal and budgetary
decisions. Yes, sovereign immunity insulates the Board itself from
those attacks. But without Section 2126(e), a plaintiff might get
around that immunity via an Ex parte Young action—a
suit against an individual Board member for injunctive relief. See
Virginia Office for Protection and Advocacy v.
Stewart, 563 U.S.
247, 254–255 (2011) (describing the Ex parte
Young “limit on the sovereign- immunity
principle”). Section 2126(e) precludes that possibility. So
it too has a role to play in a scheme with sovereign immunity.

															In short, nothing in PROMESA makes
Congress’s intent to abrogate the Board’s sovereign
immunity “unmistakably clear.” Kimel, 528
U. S., at 73. The statute does not explicitly strip the Board
of immunity. It does not expressly authorize the bringing of claims
against the Board. And its judicial review provisions and liability
protections are compatible with the Board’s generally
retaining sovereign immunity. We therefore reverse the judgment of
the Court of Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 The section contains two
exceptions not relevant here—one for applications to enforce
subpoenas, the other for certain actions related to Title III
cases. See 48 U. S. C. §§2124(f )(2),
2166(a)(2).
2
 CPI now asks us to extend
our review to the underlying immunity issue. CPI still does not
contest that the Board shares in whatever immunity Puerto Rico
possesses. But it argues here that Puerto Rico’s immunity
applies only in its own courts—not in federal courts. See
Brief for CPI 29–32. The Government also urges us to address
Puerto Rico’s immunity, though to come out the other way: It
reads our precedents as supporting immunity in both territorial and
federal courts. See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae
16–19 (citing, e.g., Porto Rico v. Rosaly y
Castillo, 227 U.S.
270, 273–277 (1913)). We decline the two invitations for
the reasons just stated: The proceedings below did not examine
those matters, and we agreed to tackle only the abrogation
question. Cf. Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority v.
Metcalf & Eddy, Inc., 506 U.S.
139, 141, n. 1 (1993) (similarly declining to address whether
Puerto Rico has sovereign immunity when holding that an order
denying immunity for one of its instrumentalities is immediately
appealable). We also note that this suit—in which Puerto Rico
itself plays no role—would be a singularly inapt vehicle to
resolve Puerto Rico’s immunity.
3
 Of course, when the
federal government is the defendant, the clear-statement rule
operates to identify a waiver of its own immunity, rather than an
abrogation of another government’s.


