::SCDB_caseID:: 1834-008
::decision_cite:: 33 U.S. 4 (1834)
::decision_name::  Stratton v. Jarvis
::decision_year:: 1834
::opinion_author:: 
::opinion_type:: 
::opinion:: 

U.S. Supreme Court
Stratton v. Jarvis, 33 U.S. 8 Pet. 4 4
(1834)
Stratton v. Jarvis
33 U.S. (8 Pet.) 4
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF
MARYLAND
Syllabus

															A libel was filed in the District Court of Maryland for a
salvage service performed by the libellant, the master and owner of
the sloop Liberty, and by his crew in saving certain goods
and merchandises on board of the brig Spark, while aground
on the bar at Thomas' Point in the Chesapeake Bay. The goods were
owned by a number of persons in several and distinct rights, and a
general claim and answer was interposed in behalf of all of them by
Jarvis and Brown (the owners of a part of them), without naming who
in particular the owners were or distinguishing their separate
proprietary interests.

															This proceeding was doubtless irregular in both respects. Jarvis
and Brown had no authority merely as co-shippers to interpose any
claim for other shippers with whom they had no privity of interest
or consignment, and several claims should have been interposed by
the several owners or by other persons authorized to act for them
in the premises, each intervening in his own name for his
proprietary interest and specifying it. If any owner should not
appear to claim any particular parcel of the property, the habit of
courts of admiralty is to retain such property or its proceeds,
after deducting the salvage, until a claim is made or a year and a
day have elapsed from the time of the institution of the
proceedings. And when separate claims are interposed, although the
libel is joint against the whole property, each claim is treated as
a distinct and independent proceeding in the nature of a several
suit, upon which there may be a several independent hearing,
decree, and appeal. This is very familiar in practice in prize
causes and seizures in rein for forfeitures, and is equally
applicable to all other proceedings in rem whenever there
are distinct and independent claimants.

															The district court decreed a salvage of one-fifth of the gross
proceeds of the sales of the goods and merchandises, and directed
the same to be sold accordingly. The salvage thus decreed was
afterwards ascertained, upon the sales, to be in the aggregate
$2,728.38, but no formal apportionment thereof was made. From this
decree an appeal was interposed in behalf of all the owners of the
goods and merchandise to the circuit court, but no appeal was
interposed by the libellant. The consequence is that the decree of
the district court is conclusive upon him as to the amount of
salvage in his favor. He cannot, in the appellate court, claim
anything beyond that amount, since he has not, by any appeal on his
part, controverted its sufficiency.

															Although no apportionment of the salvage among the various
claimants was formally directed to be made by any interlocutory
order of the district court, an apportionment appears to have been
in fact made under its authority. A schedule is found in the record
containing the names of all the owners and claimants, the gross
sales of their property, and the amount of salvage apportioned upon
each of them respectively. By this schedule, the highest

															Page 33 U. S. 5

															salvage chargeable on any distinct claimant is $906..17, and the
lowest $47.60, the latter sum being below the amount for which an
appeal by the Act of 3 March, 1803, ch. 93, is allowed from a
decree of the district court in admiralty and maritime causes.

															In the appeal here as in that from the district court, the case
of each claimant having a separate interest must be treated as a
separate appeal, pro interesse suo, from the decree so far
as it regards that interest, and the salvage chargeable on him
constitutes the whole matter in dispute between him and the
libellants with the fate of the other claims, however disposed of,
he has and can have nothing to do. It is true that the salvage
service was in one sense entire, but it certainly cannot be deemed
entire for the purpose of founding a right against all the
claimants jointly, so as to make them all jointly responsible for
the whole salvage. On the contrary, each claimant is responsible
only for the salvage properly due and chargeable on the gross
proceeds or sales of his own property pro rata. It would
otherwise follow that the property of one claimant might be made
chargeable with the payment of the whole salvage, which would be
against the clearest principles of law on this subject. The
district and circuit courts manifestly acted upon this view of the
matter, and their decrees would be utterly unintelligible upon any
other. Their decrees, respectively, in giving a certain proportion
of the gross sales must necessarily apportion that amount pro
rata upon the whole proceeds according to the distinct
interests of each claimant. This Court has no jurisdiction to
entertain the present appeal in regard to any of the claimants, and
the cause must for this reason be dismissed. The district court, as
a court of original jurisdiction, has general jurisdiction of all
causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, without reference to
the sum or value of the matter in controversy. But the appellate
jurisdiction of this Court and of the circuit courts depends upon
the sum or value of the matter in dispute between the parties
having independent interests.

															In the District Court of the United States for the District of
Maryland, a libel was filed by the appellant for salvage against
several packages of merchandize of the invoice value of thirteen
thousand six hundred and forty-one dollars and ninety-five cents,
the property of fifteen consignees, alleged to have been saved from
the brig Spark in the Chesapeake Bay, the vessel having
been on a voyage from New York to Baltimore and having struck on
Thomas' Point in the bay on 11 March, 1831.

															The libellant was master of the sloop Liberty, a small
vessel which took from the Spark the merchandize stated to
have been saved, he having been employed for the purpose in
Annapolis

															Page 33 U. S. 6

															by the master of the Spark, who, after she was on
shore, went there to obtain vessels in which to discharge the
cargo.

															The libel alleged that the contract under which the
Liberty was employed for a stipulated compensation was
rescinded by the owners of the Spark, who had repaired to
her from Baltimore after hearing of her misfortune, they declaring
they would not be responsible for the payment of the sum
stipulated, but that they "abandoned the goods," and the claim for
hire having thus been converted into a case of salvage.

															The answer of the appellees, the owners of the merchandize,
denied the claim of the libellant to salvage and relied upon the
agreement for a stipulated compensation as fixed upon by the
captain of the Spark, the amount of which was offered to
be paid to the libellant and was by him refused.

															The answer also denied that the cargo of the Spark was
in danger of loss and that services of a meritorious character,
upon which a claim for salvage would rest, had been performed by
the libellant.

															The district court allowed, as a salvage, twenty percent, which,
on appeal by the appellees, the circuit court reduced to five
percent on the gross proceeds of the goods, from which decree of
the circuit court the libellant appealed.

															In the circuit court the following agreement was entered
into:

															"List of owners. -- Patterson & Duncan, J. B.
Danforth, Chamberlin & Caldwell, William B. Keys & Co.,
Baltzell & Davidson, Mummey & Meredith, John Armstrong
& Son, William M. Ellicott & Co., Sacket & Shannon,
Baltzell & Dalrymple, Peabody, Riggs & Co., Bancroft &
Peck Lawrence & Anderson, S. & J. B. Ford, Jarvis &
Brown."

															"List of consignees. -- Joseph Taylor & Son, John
T. Barr B. & Davidson, M. & Meredith, C. F. Pochon &
Co., Ellicott & Co., S. & Shannon, B. & D., N. F.
Williams, P. R. & Co. B. & Peck E., Eichelberger & Co.,
Talbot Jones & Co., H. & W. Crawford, J. & B., Morrison
and Egerton."

															"It is agreed that separate appeals be filed in this case for
each of the owners, as specified in the foregoing list, and that
the cause be considered and treated as if such separate appeals
were filed, and that none of the appellants shall have any
privileges

															Page 33 U. S. 7

															or advantages which would not appertain to them if such appeal
were a separate one."

															"Signed by the proctors of the respondents and appellants."

															"Nov. 18, 1831."

															The salvage was apportioned among the owners of the property
saved as follows:

															image:a

															Page 33 U. S. 8

															MR. JUSTICE STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.

															This is the case of a libel for a salvage service performed by
the libellant, the master and owner of the sloop Liberty,
and by his crew, in saving certain goods and merchandise on board
of the brig Spark while aground on the bar at Thomas'
Point in the Chesapeake Bay. The goods were owned by a number of
persons in several and distinct rights, and a general claim and
answer was interposed in behalf of all of them by Jarvis and Brown
(the owners of a part of them) without naming who in particular the
owners were or distinguishing their separate proprietary interests.
This proceeding was doubtless irregular in both respects. Jarvis
and Brown had no authority merely as co-shippers to interpose any
claim for other shippers with

															Page 33 U. S. 9

															whom they had no privity of interest or consignment, and several
claims should have been interposed by the several owners or by
other persons authorized to act for them in the premises, each
intervening in his own name for his proprietary interest, and
specifying it. If any owner should not appear to claim any
particular parcel of the property, the habit of courts of admiralty
is to retain such property or its proceeds, after deducting the
salvage, until a claim is made or a year and a day have elapsed
from the time of the institution of the proceedings. And when
separate claims are interposed, although the libel is joint against
the whole property, each claim is treated as a distinct and
independent proceeding in the nature of a several suit, upon which
there may be a several independent hearing, decree, and appeal.
This is very familiar in practice in prize causes and seizures
in rem for forfeitures, and is equally applicable to all
other proceedings in rem whenever there are distinct and
independent claimants. The irregularity (such as it is) in the
present case is, however, of no importance, as the parties, by
their agreement of record, have agreed that separate appeals should
be filed from the decree of the district court for each of the
owners, as specified in a list subjoined thereto, and that the
cause should be considered and treated as if such separate appeals
were filed, and that none of the appellants should have any
privileges or advantages which would not appertain to them if such
appeal were a separate one. This agreement, in legal effect,
creates the very severance which the original claim and answer
ought to have propounded in due form.

															At the trial in the district court upon the allegations and
proofs in the cause, there was no controversy as to the salvage
service, and the case was reduced to the mere consideration of the
amount to be awarded as salvage. The district court decreed a
salvage of one-fifth of the gross proceeds of the sales of the
goods and merchandizes, and directed the same to be sold
accordingly. The salvage thus decreed was afterwards ascertained
upon the sales to be in the aggregate $2,728.38, but no formal
apportionment thereof was made. From this decree an appeal was
interposed in behalf of all the owners of the goods and
merchandizes to the circuit court, but no appeal was interposed by
the libellant.

															Page 33 U. S. 10

															The consequence is that the decree of the district court is
conclusive upon him as to the amount of salvage in his favor. He
cannot, in the appellate court, claim anything beyond that amount,
since he has not, by any appeal on his part, controverted its
sufficiency. Although no apportionment of the salvage among the
various claimants was formally directed to be made by any
interlocutory order of the district court, an apportionment appears
to have been in fact made under its authority. A schedule is found
in the record containing the names of all the owners and claimants,
the gross sales of their property, and the amount of salvage
apportioned upon each of them respectively. By this schedule, the
highest salvage chargeable on any distinct claimant is $906.17, and
the lowest $47.60, the latter sum being below the amount for which
an appeal by the Act of 3 March, 1803, ch. 93, is allowed from a
decree of the district court in admiralty and maritime causes.

															Upon an appeal, the circuit court reversed the decree of the
district court and awarded one-twentieth part (instead of
one-fifth) of the gross sales as salvage, and from this latter
decree the libellant has appealed to this Court.

															The first question is whether this Court has jurisdiction to
entertain the appeal, the aggregate amount of the whole salvage
exceeding the sum of $2,000, but that which is due or payable by
any distinct claimant being very far short of that sum. The
argument in favor of the jurisdiction is that the salvage service
is entire, and the decree is for a specified proportion or aliquot
part of the whole of the gross sales, and therefore it is
chargeable upon the proceeds as an entirety, and not upon the
separate parcels thereof according to the interests of the separate
owners. We are of a different opinion. In the appeal here as in
that from the district court, the case of each claimant having a
separate interest must be treated as a separate appeal, pro
interesse suo, from the decree, so far as it regards that
interest, and the salvage chargeable on him constitutes the whole
matter in dispute between him and the libellant,; with the fate of
the other claims, however disposed of, he has and can have nothing
to do. It is true that the salvage service was in one sense entire,
but it certainly

															Page 33 U. S. 11

															cannot be deemed entire for the purpose of founding a right
against all the claimants jointly, so as to make them all jointly
responsible for the whole salvage. On the contrary, each claimant
is responsible only for the salvage properly due, and chargeable on
the gross proceeds or sales of his own property pro rata.
It would otherwise follow that the property of one claimant might
be made chargeable with the payment of the whole salvage, which
would be against the clearest principles of law on this subject.
The district and circuit courts manifestly acted upon this view of
the matter, and their decrees would be utterly unintelligible upon
any other. Their decrees, respectively, in giving a certain
proportion of the gross sales, must necessarily apportion that
amount, pro rata, upon the whole proceeds, according to
the distinct interests of each claimant. We are therefore of
opinion that we have no jurisdiction to entertain the present
appeal in regard to any of the claimants, and the cause must for
this reason be dismissed. The district court, as a court of
original jurisdiction, has general jurisdiction of all causes of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, without reference to the sum
or value of the matter in controversy. But the appellate
jurisdiction of this Court and of the circuit courts depends upon
the sum or value of the matter in dispute between the parties
having independent interests.

															Appeal dismissed accordingly.

