::SCDB_caseID:: 1836-016
::decision_cite:: 35 U.S. 306 (1836)
::decision_name::  United States v. Segui
::decision_year:: 1836
::opinion_author:: 
::opinion_type:: 
::opinion:: 

U.S. Supreme CourtUnited States v. Segui, 35 U.S. 10 Pet. 306 306 (1836)
United States v. Segui
35 U.S. (10 Pet.) 306

APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR
COURT OF EAST FLORIDA
Syllabus 

															A grant by the Spanish government of a tract of land in Florida confirmed.

															This Court cannot attach any condition to a grant of absolute property in  the whole of the land.  It was made by the governor in absolute property, with a promise of a title in form.  He was the exclusive judge of the conditions to be imposed on his grant and of their performance.

															MR. JUSTICE BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court.

															This is an appeal from the decree of the judge of the Superior Court for the Eastern District of Florida confirming the claim of the appellee to sixteen thousand acres of land pursuant to the acts of Congress for the adjustment of land claims in Florida.

															In the court below, the petition was in the form prescribed by law, presenting a proper case for the jurisdiction of the Court.

															The claim of the petitioner was founded on his application to the Governor of East Florida for a grant of sixteen thousand acres of land in consideration of his services to the Spanish government and for erecting machinery for the purpose of sawing timber.  The grant was made by the governor in absolute property, with a promise of a title in form.  The date of the grant was 6 December, 1814.

															It has been suggested by the attorney general, that though there was no express condition in the grant, one was implied from the consideration being in part the erection of a saw mill.  But we cannot attach any condition to a grant of absolute property in the whole quantity.  It was exclusively for the governor to judge of the conditions to be imposed on his grant; he appears to have considered the services of the appellee a sufficient consideration, and made the grant absolute.

															The land was surveyed in one tract at the place called for in the grant on 2 September, 1818.  On an inspection of the 
															Page 35 U. S. 307
															 whole record, we are of opinion that the title of the petitioner to the land surveyed is valid, and therefore

															Affirm the decree of the court below.

															This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Superior Court for the District of East Florida and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this Court that the decree of the said Superior Court for the District of East Florida in this cause be and the same is hereby affirmed.

													
