::SCDB_caseID:: 1850-024
::decision_cite:: 49 U.S. 234 (1850)
::decision_name::  Wanzer v. Tupper
::decision_year:: 1850
::opinion_author:: 
::opinion_type:: 
::opinion:: 

U.S. Supreme CourtWanzer v. Tupper, 49 U.S. 8 How. 234 234 (1850)
Wanzer v. Tupper
49 U.S. (8 How.) 234

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI
Syllabus 

															By the statutes of Mississippi, the holder of an inland bill of exchange is entitled to recover of an endorser the amount due on the bill, with interest, upon giving the customary proof of default and notice.  A protest is necessary only for the purpose of enabling him to recover the five percent damages given by the act.

															The case of Bailey v. Dozier, 6 How. 23, confirmed.

															It was an action brought by Wanzer upon a bill of exchange drawn by him upon Silverbury & Co., accepted by drawees, and endorsed by Tupper & Rollins to Wanzer.

															The cause was tried in the circuit court in November, 1846, when the court refused to permit the bill, although admitted to be an inland bill of exchange, to be given in evidence to the jury, because there was no valid protest thereof.

															It is unnecessary to state any further facts in the case.

															MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.

															In this case, the Circuit Court for the Southern District of 
															Page 49 U. S. 235
															 Mississippi decided, that the holder of an inland bill of exchange drawn and accepted in that state was not entitled to recover against the endorser, unless the bill had been regularly protested for nonpayment.  This decision was made before the case of Bailey v. Dozier, reported in 6 How. 23, came before this Court.  In that case, the Court held, upon full consideration of the question, that under the statute of Mississippi, the holder of an inland bill of exchange was entitled to recover of an endorser the amount due on the bill, with interest, upon giving the customary proof of default and notice, and that the protest was necessary only for the purpose of enabling him to recover the five percent damages given by the act.  The case of Bailey v. Dozier must govern this, and the judgment in the circuit court is therefore

															Reversed.
Order 

															This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.  On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said circuit court, with directions to award a venire facias de novo.

