::SCDB_caseID:: 2003-006
::decision_cite:: 540 U.S. 93 (2003)
::decision_name::  McConnell v. FEC
::decision_year:: 2003
::opinion_author:: Rehnquist
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

 
REHNQUIST, C. J., DISSENTING
MCCONNELL V. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM'N
540 U. S. ____ (2003)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NOS. 02-1674, 02-1675, 02-1676, 02-1702, 02-1727, 02-1733,
02-1734;02-1740, 02-1747, 02-1753, 02-1755, AND
02-1756

															MITCH McCONNELL, UNITED STATES SENATOR,
et al., APPELLANTS

															02–1674   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1675   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1676   v.

															MITCH McCONNELL, UNITED STATES SENATOR,
et al.;

															JOHN McCAIN, UNITED STATES SENATOR, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1702   v.

															MITCH McCONNELL, UNITED STATES SENATOR,
et al.;

															REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1727   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															NATIONAL RIGHT TO LIFE COMMITTEE, INC.,
et al., APPELLANTS

															02–1733   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION, APPELLANTS

															02–1734   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															VICTORIA JACKSON GRAY ADAMS, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1740   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															RON PAUL, UNITED STATES CONGRESSMAN, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1747   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															CALIFORNIA DEMOCRATIC PARTY, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1753   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR AND CONGRESS OF
INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS, et al., APPELLANTS

															02–1755   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES,
et al., APPELLANTS

															02–1756   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.

															on appeals from the united states district court
for the district of columbia

															[December 10, 2003]

															   Chief Justice Rehnquist,
dissenting with respect to BCRA Titles I and V.*

															   Although I join Justice
Kennedy’s opinion in full, I write separately to highlight my
disagreement with the Court on Title I of the Bipartisan Campaign
Reform Act of 2002 (BCRA), 116 Stat. 81, and to dissent from the
Court’s opinion upholding §504 of Title V.

															I

															   The issue presented by Title I is
not, as the Court implies, whether Congress can permissibly
regulate campaign contributions to candidates, de facto or
otherwise, or seek to eliminate corruption in the political
process. Rather, the issue is whether Congress can permissibly
regulate much speech that has no plausible connection to candidate
contributions or corruption to achieve those goals. Under our
precedent, restrictions on political contributions implicate
important First Amendment values and are constitutional only if
they are “closely drawn” to reduce the corruption of
federal candidates or the appearance of corruption.
Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U. S. 1, 26– 27
(1976) (per curiam). Yet, the Court glosses over the
breadth of the restrictions, characterizing Title I of BCRA as
“do[ing] little more that regulat[ing] the ability of wealthy
individuals, corporations, and unions to contribute large sums of
money to influence federal elections, federal candidates, and
federal officeholders.” Ante, at 28 (joint opinion
of Stevens and O’Connor, JJ.). Because, in reality, Title I
is much broader than the Court allows, regulating a good deal of
speech that does not have the potential to corrupt federal
candidates and officeholders, I dissent.

															   The lynchpin of Title I, new FECA
§323(a), prohibits national political party committees from
“solicit[ing],” “receiv[ing],”
“direct[ing] to another person,” and
“spend[ing]” any funds not subject to federal
regulation, even if those funds are used for nonelection related
activities. 2 U. S. C. A. §441i(a)(1) (Supp. 2003).
The Court concludes that such a restriction is justified because
under FECA, “donors have been free to contribute substantial
sums of soft money to the national parties, which the parties can
spend for the specific purpose of influencing a particular
candidate’s federal election.” Ante, at 36.
Accordingly, “[i]t is not only plausible, but likely, that
candidates would feel grateful for such donations and that donors
would seek to exploit that gratitude.” Ibid. But the
Court misses the point. Certainly “infusions of money into
[candidates’] campaigns,” Federal Election
Comm’n v. National Conservative Political Action
Comm., 470
U. S. 480, 497 (1985), can be regulated, but §323(a) does
not regulate only donations given to influence a particular federal
election; it regulates all donations to national political
committees, no matter the use to which the funds are put.

															   The Court attempts to sidestep the
unprecedented breadth of this regulation by stating that the
“close relationship between federal officeholders and the
national parties” makes all donations to the national parties
“suspect.” Ante, at 45. But a close
association with others, especially in the realm of political
speech, is not a surrogate for corruption; it is one of our most
treasured First Amendment rights. See California Democratic
Party v. Jones, 530 U. S. 567, 574
(2000); Eu v. San Francisco County Democratic Central
Comm., 489
U. S. 214, 225 (1989); Tashjian v. Republican
Party of Conn., 479 U. S. 208, 214
(1986). The Court’s willingness to impute corruption on the
basis of a relationship greatly infringes associational rights and
expands Congress’ ability to regulate political speech. And
there is nothing in the Court’s analysis that limits
congressional regulation to national political parties. In fact,
the Court relies in part on this closeness rationale to regulate
nonprofit organizations. Ante, at 47–48,
n. 51. Who knows what association will be deemed too close to
federal officeholders next. When a donation to an organization has
no potential to corrupt a federal officeholder, the relationship
between the officeholder and the organization is simply
irrelevant.

															   The Court fails to recognize that the national
political parties are exemplars of political speech at all levels
of government, in addition to effective fundraisers for federal
candidates and officeholders. For sure, national political party
committees exist in large part to elect federal candidates, but as
a majority of the District Court found, they also promote
coordinated political messages and participate in public policy
debates unrelated to federal elections, promote, even in off-year
elections, state and local candidates and seek to influence policy
at those levels, and increase public participation in the electoral
process. See 251 F. Supp. 2d 176, 334–337 (DC 2003)
(per curiam) (Henderson, J., concurring in judgment in
part and dissenting in part); id., at 820–821 (Leon,
J.). Indeed, some national political parties exist primarily for
the purpose of expressing ideas and generating debate. App.
185–186 (declaration of Stephen L. Dasbach et al. ¶ ;11
(describing Libertarian Party)).

															   As these activities illustrate, political
parties often foster speech crucial to a healthy democracy, 251
F. Supp. 2d, at 820 (Leon, J.), and fulfill the need for
like-minded individuals to ban together and promote a political
philosophy, see Jones, supra, at 574;
Eu, supra, at 225. When political parties engage
in pure political speech that has little or no potential to corrupt
their federal candidates and officeholders, the government cannot
constitutionally burden their speech any more than it could burden
the speech of individuals engaging in these same activities.
E.g., National Conservative Political Action
Comm., supra, at 496–497; Citizens Against
Rent Control/Coalition for Fair Housing v.
Berkeley, 454 U. S. 290,
297–298 (1981); Buckley, 424 U. S., at 27.
Notwithstanding the Court’s citation to the numerous abuses
of FECA, under any definition of “exacting scrutiny,”
the means chosen by Congress, restricting all donations to national
parties no matter the purpose for which they are given or are used,
are not “closely drawn to avoid unnecessary abridgment of
associational freedoms,” id., at 25.

															   BCRA’s overinclusiveness is not limited
to national political parties. To prevent the circumvention of the
ban on the national parties’ use of nonfederal funds, BCRA
extensively regulates state parties, primarily state elections, and
state candidates. For example, new FECA §323(b), by reference
to new FECA §§301(20)(A)(i)–(ii), prohibits state
parties from using nonfederal funds[Footnote 1] for general partybuilding activities such as
voter registration, voter identification, and get out the vote for
state candidates even if federal candidates are not mentioned. See
2 U. S. C. A. §§441i(b),
431(20)(A)(i)–(ii) (Supp. 2003). New FECA §323(d)
prohibits state and local political party committees, like their
national counterparts, from soliciting and donating “any
funds” to nonprofit organizations such as the National Rifle
Association or the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People (NAACP). See 2 U. S. C. A. §441i(d).
And, new FECA §323(f) requires a state gubernatorial candidate
to abide by federal funding restrictions when airing a television
ad that tells voters that, if elected, he would oppose the
President’s policy of increased oil and gas exploration
within the State because it would harm the environment. See 2 U.
S. C. A. §§441i(f), 431(20)(A)(iii) (regulating
“public communication[s] that refe[r] to a clearly identified
candidate for Federal office (regardless of whether a candidate for
State or local office is also mentioned or identified) and that
… attacks or opposes a candidate for that
office”).

															   Although these provisions are more focused on
activities that may affect federal elections, there is
scant evidence in the record to indicate that federal candidates or
officeholders are corrupted or would appear corrupted by donations
for these activities. See 251 F. Supp. 2d, at 403, 407, 416,
422 (Henderson, J., concurring in judgment in part and dissenting
in part); id., at 779–780, 791 (Leon, J.); see also
Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Comm. v. Federal
Election Comm’n, 518 U. S. 604, 616
(1996) (plurality opinion) (noting that “the opportunity for
corruption posed by [nonfederal contributions for state elections,
get-out-the-vote, and voter registration activities] is, at best,
attenuated”). Nonetheless, the Court concludes that because
these activities benefit federal candidates and
officeholders, see ante, at 59 or prevent the
circumvention of pre-existing or contemporaneously enacted
restrictions,[Footnote 2] see
ante, at 57, 67, 71, 78, it must defer to the
“ ‘predictive judgments of
Congress,’ ” ante, at 57 (quoting
Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v.
FCC, 512 U. S. 622, 665
(1994)).

															   Yet the Court cannot truly mean what it says.
Newspaper editorials and political talk shows benefit
federal candidates and officeholders every bit as much as a generic
voter registration drive conducted by a state party; there is
little doubt that the endorsement of a major newspaper
affects federal elections, and federal candidates and
officeholders are surely “grateful,” ante, at
60, for positive media coverage. I doubt, however, the Court would
seriously contend that we must defer to Congress’ judgment if
it chose to reduce the influence of political endorsements in
federal elections.[Footnote 3]
See Miami Herald Publishing Co. v.
Tornillo, 418 U. S. 241, 247, 250
(1974) (holding unconstitutional a state law that required
newspapers to provide “right to reply” to any candidate
who was personally or professionally assailed in order to eliminate
the “abuses of bias and manipulative reportage” by the
press).

															   It is also true that any circumvention
rationale ultimately must rest on the circumvention itself leading
to the corruption of federal candidates and officeholders. See
Buckley, 424 U. S., at 38 (upholding restrictions on funds
donated to national political parties “for the purpose of
influencing any election for a Federal office” because they
were prophylactic measures designed “to prevent
evasion” of the contribution limit on candidates).
All political speech that is not sifted through federal regulation
circumvents the regulatory scheme to some degree or another, and
thus by the Court’s standard would be a
“loophole” in the current system.[Footnote 4] Unless the Court would uphold federal
regulation of all funding of political speech, a rationale
dependent on circumvention alone will not do. By untethering its
inquiry from corruption or the appearance of corruption, the Court
has removed the touchstone of our campaign finance precedent and
has failed to replace it with any logical limiting principle.

															   But such an untethering is necessary to the
Court’s analysis. Only by using amorphous language to
conclude a federal interest, however vaguely defined, exists can
the Court avoid the obvious fact that new FECA §§323(a),
(b), (d), and (f ) are vastly overinclusive. Any campaign
finance law aimed at reducing corruption will almost surely affect
federal elections or prohibit the circumvention of federal law, and
if broad enough, most laws will generally reduce some appearance of
corruption. Indeed, it is precisely because broad laws are likely
to nominally further a legitimate interest that we require Congress
to tailor its restrictions; requiring all federal candidates to
self-finance their campaigns would surely reduce the appearance of
donor corruption, but it would hardly be constitutional. In
allowing Congress to rely on general principles such as affecting a
federal election or prohibiting the circumvention of existing law,
the Court all but eliminates the “closely drawn”
tailoring requirement and meaningful judicial review.

															   No doubt Congress was convinced by the many
abuses of the current system that something in this area must be
done. Its response, however, was too blunt. Many of the abuses
described by the Court involve donations that were made for the
“purpose of influencing a federal election,” and thus
are already regulated. See Buckley, supra.
Congress could have sought to have the existing restrictions
enforced or to enact other restrictions that are “closely
drawn” to its legitimate concerns. But it should not be able
to broadly restrict political speech in the fashion it has chosen.
Today’s decision, by not requiring tailored restrictions, has
significantly reduced the protection for political speech having
little or nothing to do with corruption or the appearance of
corruption.

															II

															   BCRA §504 amends §315
of the Communications Act to require broadcast licensees to
maintain and disclose records of any request to purchase
broadcast time that “is made by or on behalf of a legally
qualified candidate for public office” or that
“communicates a message relating to any political matter of
national importance,” including communications relating to
“a legally qualified candidate,” “any election to
Federal office,” and “a national legislative issue of
public importance.” BCRA §504; 47 U. S. C. A.
§315(e)(1) (Supp. 2003).[Footnote 5] This section differs from other BCRA
disclosure sections because it requires broadcast
licensees to disclose requests to purchase broadcast
time rather than requiring purchasers to disclose their
disbursements for broadcast time. See, e.g., BCRA
§201. The Court concludes that §504 “must survive a
facial attack under any potentially applicable First
Amendment standard, including that of heightened scrutiny.”
Ante, at 15 (opinion of Breyer, J.). I disagree.

															   This section is deficient because
of the absence of a sufficient governmental interest to justify
disclosure of mere requests to purchase broadcast time, as well as
purchases themselves. The Court approaches §504 almost
exclusively from the perspective of the broadcast licensees,
ignoring the interests of candidates and other purchasers, whose
speech and association rights are affected by §504. See,
e.g., ante, at 5 (noting that broadcasters are
subject to numerous recordkeeping requirements); ante, at
7 (opining that this Court has recognized “broad governmental
authority for agency information demands from regulated
entities”); ante, at 8–9 (“[W]e cannot
say that these requirements will impose disproportionate
administrative burdens”). An approach that simply focuses on
whether the administrative burden is justifiable is untenable.
Because §504 impinges on core First Amendment rights, it is
subject to a more demanding test than mere rational-basis review.
The Court applies the latter by asking essentially whether there is
any conceivable reason to support §504. See ante, at
8 (discussing the ways in which the disclosure “can
help” the FCC and the public); ante, at 10 (noting
that the “recordkeeping requirements seem likely to help the
FCC” enforce the fairness doctrine).

															   Required disclosure provisions that deter
constitutionally protected association and speech rights are
subject to heightened scrutiny. See Buckley, 424 U. S., at
64. When applying heightened scrutiny, we first ask whether the
Government has asserted an interest sufficient to justify the
disclosure of requests to purchase broadcast time. Ibid.;
see ante, at 89 (joint opinion of Stevens and
O’Connor, JJ.) (concluding that the important state interests
the Buckley Court held justified FECA’s disclosure
requirements apply to BCRA §201’s disclosure
requirement). But the Government, in its brief, proffers no
interest whatever to support §504 as a whole.

															   Contrary to the Court’s suggestion,
ante, at 7 (opinion of Breyer, J.), the Government’s
brief does not succinctly present interests sufficient to support
§504. The two paragraphs that the Court relies on provide the
following:

															   “As explained in the
government’s brief in opposition to the motion for summary
affirmance on this issue filed by plaintiff National Association of
Broadcasters (NAB), longstanding FCC regulations impose disclosure
requirements with respect to the sponsorship of broadcast matter
‘involving the discussion of a controversial issue of public
importance.’ 47 C. F. R. 73.1212(d) and (e) (2002);
see 47 C. F. R. 76.1701(d) (2002) (same standard used in
disclosure regulation governing cablecasting). By enabling viewers
and listeners to identify the persons actually responsible for
communications aimed at a mass audience, those regulations assist
the public in evaluating the message transmitted. See
Bellotti, 435 U.S. at 792 n. 32
(‘Identification of the source of advertising may be required
… so that the people will be able to evaluate the arguments
to which they are being subjected.’).

															   “The range of information required to be
disclosed under BCRA §504 is comparable to the disclosures
mandated by pre-existing FCC rules. Compare 47 U. S. C.
315(e)(2)(G) (added by BCRA §504), with 47 C. F. R.
73.1212(e) and 76.1701(d) (2002). Plaintiffs do not attempt to show
that BCRA §504’s requirements are more onerous than the
FCC’s longstanding rules, nor do they contend that the
pre-existing agency regulations are themselves unconstitutional.
See generally 02–1676 Gov’t Br. in Opp. to Mot. of NAB
for Summ. Aff. 4–9. Because BCRA §504 is essentially a
codification of established and unchallenged regulatory
requirements, plaintiffs’ First Amendment claim should be
rejected.” Brief for FEC et al. in No. 02–1674
et al., pp. 132–133; ante, at 7.

															While these paragraphs attempt to set forth a
justification for the new Communications Act §315(e)(1)(B),
discussed below, I fail to see any justification for BCRA §504
in its entirety. Nor do I find persuasive the Court’s and the
Government’s argument that pre-existing unchallenged agency
regulations imposing similar disclosure requirements compel the
conclusion that §504 is constitutional and somehow relieve the
Government of its burden of advancing a constitutionally sufficient
justification for §504.

															   At oral argument, the Government counsel
indicated that one of the interests supporting §504 in its
entirety stems from the fairness doctrine, Tr. of Oral Arg. 192,
which in general imposes an obligation on licensees to devote a
“reasonable percentage” of broadcast time to issues of
public importance in a way that reflects opposing views. See
Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367 (1969).
Assuming, arguendo, this latter-day assertion should be
considered, I think the District Court correctly noted that there
is nothing in the record that indicates licensees have treated
purchasers unfairly. 251 F. Supp. 2d, at 812 (Leon, J.). In
addition, this interest seems wholly unconnected to the central
purpose of BCRA, and it is not at all similar to the governmental
interests in Buckley that we found to be
“sufficiently important to outweigh the possibility of
infringement,” 424 U. S., at 66.

															   As to the disclosure requirements involving
“any political matter of national importance” under the
new Communications Act §315(e)(1)(B), the Government suggests
that the disclosure enables viewers to evaluate the message
transmitted.[Footnote 6] First,
insofar as BCRA §504 requires reporting of “request[s
for] broadcast time” as well as actual broadcasts, it is not
supported by this goal. Requests that do not mature into actual
purchases will have no viewers, but the information may allow
competitors or adversaries to obtain information regarding
organizational or political strategies of purchasers. Second, even
as to broadcasts themselves, in this noncandidate-related context,
this goal is a far cry from the Government interests endorsed in
Buckley, which were limited to evaluating and preventing
corruption of federal candidates. Ibid.; see also
McIntyre v. Ohio Elections
Comm’n, 514 U. S. 334, 354
(1995).

															   As to disclosure requirements with respect to
candidates under the new Communications Act §315(e)(1)(A),
BCRA §504 significantly overlaps with §201, which is
today also upheld by this Court, ante, at 87–95
(joint opinion of Stevens and O’Connor, JJ.), and requires
purchasers of “electioneering communications” to
disclose a wide array of information, including the amount of each
disbursement and the elections to which electioneering
communications pertain. While I recognize that there is this
overlap, §504 imposes a different burden on the
purchaser’s First Amendment rights: as noted above, §201
is limited to purchasers’ disclosure of
disbursements for electioneering communications, whereas
§504 requires broadcast licensees’ disclosure
of requests for broadcast time by purchasers. Not only are
the purchasers’ requests, which may never result in an actual
advertisement, subject to the disclosure requirements, but
§504 will undoubtedly result in increased costs of
communication because the licensees will shift the costs of the
onerous disclosure and recordkeeping requirements to purchasers.
The Government fails to offer a reason for the separate burden and
apparent overlap.

															   The Government cannot justify, and for that
matter, has not attempted to justify, its requirement that
“request[s for] broadcast” time be publicized. On the
record before this Court, I cannot even speculate as to a
governmental interest that would allow me to conclude that the
disclosure of “requests” should be upheld. Such
disclosure risks, inter alia, allowing candidates and
political groups the opportunity to ferret out a purchaser’s
political strategy and, ultimately, unduly burdens the First
Amendment freedoms of purchasers.

															   Absent some showing of a Government interest
served by §504 and in light of the breadth of disclosure of
“requests,” I must conclude that §504 fails to
satisfy First Amendment scrutiny.

															* Justice Scalia and Justice Kennedy join this
opinion in its entirety.
Footnote 1

															 The Court points out that state parties may
use Levin funds for certain activities. Levin funds, however, are
still federal restrictions on speech, even if they are less onerous
than the restrictions placed on national parties.
Footnote 2

															 Ironically, in the Court’s view,
Congress cannot be trusted to exercise judgment independent of its
parties’ large donors in its usual voting decisions because
donations may be used to further its members’ reelection
campaigns, but yet must be deferred to when it passes a
comprehensive regulatory regime that restricts election-related
speech. It seems to me no less likely that Congress would create
rules that favor its Members’ reelection chances, than be
corrupted by the influx of money to its political parties, which
may in turn be used to fund a portion of the Members’
reelection campaigns.
Footnote 3

															 The Court’s suggestion that the
“close relationship” between federal officeholders and
state and local political parties in some way excludes the media
from its rationale is unconvincing, see ante, at 24,
n. 15 (Thomas, J., concurring in part, concurring in result in
part, and dissenting in part), particularly because such a
relationship may be proved with minimal evidence. Indeed, although
the Court concludes that local political parties have a
“close relationship” with federal candidates, thus
warranting greater congressional regulation, I am unaware of
any evidence in the record that indicates that local
political parties have any relationship with federal
candidates.
Footnote 4

															 BCRA does not even close all of the
“loopholes” that currently exist. Nonprofit
organizations are currently able to accept, without disclosing,
unlimited donations for voter registration, voter identification,
and get-out-the-vote activities, and the record indicates that such
organizations already receive large donations, sometimes in the
millions of dollars, for these activities, 251 F. Supp. 2d
176, 323 (DC 2003) (Henderson, J., concurring in judgment in part
and dissenting in part) (noting that the NAACP Voter Fund received
a single, anonymous $7 million donation for get-out-the-vote
activities). There is little reason why all donations to these
nonprofit organizations, no matter the purpose for which the money
is used, will deserve any more protection than the Court provides
state parties if Congress decides to regulate them. And who knows
what the next “loophole” will be.
Footnote 5

															 Section 315(e), as amended by BCRA §504,
provides:

															   “Political record

															   “(1) In general

															   “A licensee shall maintain, and make
available for public inspection, a complete record of a request to
purchase broadcast time that—

															   “(A) is made by or on behalf of a
legally qualified candidate for public office; or

															   “(B) communicates a message relating to
any political matter of national importance, including—

															   “(i) a legally qualified candidate;

															   “(ii) any election to Federal office;
or

															   “(iii) a national legislative issue of
public importance.

															   “(2) Contents of record

															   “A record maintained under paragraph (1)
shall contain information regarding—

															   “(A) whether the request to purchase
broadcast time is accepted or rejected by the licensee;

															   “(B) the rate charged for the broadcast
time;

															   “(C) the date and time on which the
communication is aired;

															   “(D) the class of time that is
purchased;

															   “(E) the name of the candidate to which
the communication refers and the office to which the candidate is
seeking election, the election to which the communication refers,
or the issue to which the communication refers (as applicable);

															   “(F) in the case of a request made by,
or on behalf of, a candidate, the name of the candidate, the
authorized committee of the candidate, and the treasurer of such
committee; and

															   “(G) in the case of any other request,
the name of the person purchasing the time, the name, and phone
number of a contact person for such person, and a list of the chief
executive officers or members of the executive committee or of the
board of directors of such person.

															   “(3) Time to maintain file

															   “The information required under this
subsection shall be placed in a political file as soon as possible
and shall be retained by the licensee for a period of not less than
2 years.”
Footnote 6

															 Communications relating to candidates will be
covered by the new Communications Act §315(e)(1)(A), so, in
this context, we must consider, for example, the
plaintiff-organizations, which may attempt to use the broadcast
medium to convey a message espoused by the organizations.

													
