::SCDB_caseID:: 2003-006
::decision_cite:: 540 U.S. 93 (2003)
::decision_name::  McConnell v. FEC
::decision_year:: 2003
::opinion_author:: Kennedy
::opinion_type:: Concurrence & Dissent In Part
::opinion:: 

 
OPINION OF KENNEDY, J.
MCCONNELL V. FEDERAL ELECTION COMM'N
540 U. S. ____ (2003)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NOS. 02-1674, 02-1675, 02-1676, 02-1702, 02-1727, 02-1733,
02-1734;02-1740, 02-1747, 02-1753, 02-1755, AND
02-1756

															MITCH McCONNELL, UNITED STATES SENATOR,
et al., APPELLANTS

															02–1674   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1675   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1676   v.

															MITCH McCONNELL, UNITED STATES SENATOR,
et al.;

															JOHN McCAIN, UNITED STATES SENATOR, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1702   v.

															MITCH McCONNELL, UNITED STATES SENATOR,
et al.;

															REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1727   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															NATIONAL RIGHT TO LIFE COMMITTEE, INC.,
et al., APPELLANTS

															02–1733   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION, APPELLANTS

															02–1734   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															VICTORIA JACKSON GRAY ADAMS, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1740   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															RON PAUL, UNITED STATES CONGRESSMAN, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1747   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															CALIFORNIA DEMOCRATIC PARTY, et al.,
APPELLANTS

															02–1753   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															AMERICAN FEDERATION OF LABOR AND CONGRESS OF
INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATIONS, et al., APPELLANTS

															02–1755   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.;

															CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES,
et al., APPELLANTS

															02–1756   v.

															FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION, et al.

															on appeals from the united states district court
for the district of columbia

															[December 10, 2003]

															   Justice Kennedy, concurring in
the judgment in part and dissenting in part with respect to BCRA
Titles I and II.*

															   The First Amendment guarantees
our citizens the right to judge for themselves the most effective
means for the expression of political views and to decide for
themselves which entities to trust as reliable speakers.
Significant portions of Titles I and II of the Bipartisan Campaign
Reform Act of 2002 (BCRA or Act) constrain that freedom. These new
laws force speakers to abandon their own preference for speaking
through parties and organizations. And they provide safe harbor to
the mainstream press, suggesting that the corporate media alone
suffice to alleviate the burdens the Act places on the rights and
freedoms of ordinary citizens.

															   Today’s decision upholding these laws
purports simply to follow Buckley v.
Valeo, 424 U. S. 1 (1976)
(per curiam), and to abide by stare decisis, see
ante, at 27 (joint opinion of Stevens and O’Connor,
JJ. (hereinafter Court or majority)); but the majority, to make its
decision work, must abridge free speech where Buckley did
not. Buckley did not authorize Congress to decide what
shapes and forms the national political dialogue is to take. To
reach today’s decision, the Court surpasses
Buckley’s limits and expands Congress’
regulatory power. In so doing, it replaces discrete and respected
First Amendment principles with new, amorphous, and unsound rules,
rules which dismantle basic protections for speech.

															   A few examples show how BCRA reorders speech
rights and codifies the Government’s own preferences for
certain speakers. BCRA would have imposed felony punishment on Ross
Perot’s 1996 efforts to build the Reform Party. Compare
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (FECA)
§§309(d)(1)(A), 315(a)(1)(B), and 323(a)(1) (prohibiting,
by up to five years’ imprisonment, any individual from giving
over $25,000 annually to a national party), with Spending By Perot,
The Houston Chronicle, Dec. 13, 1996, p. 43 (reporting
Perot’s $8 million founding contribution to the Reform
Party). BCRA makes it a felony for an environmental group to
broadcast an ad, within 60 days of an election, exhorting the
public to protest a Congressman’s impending vote to permit
logging in national forests. See BCRA §203. BCRA escalates
Congress’ discrimination in favor of the speech rights of
giant media corporations and against the speech rights of other
corporations, both profit and nonprofit. Compare BCRA §203,
with Austin v. Michigan Chamber of
Commerce, 494 U. S. 652, 659–660 (1990)
(first sanctioning this type of discrimination).

															   To the majority, all this is not only valid
under the First Amendment but also is part of Congress’
“steady improvement of the national election laws.”
Ante, at 6. We should make no mistake. It is neither. It
is the codification of an assumption that the mainstream media
alone can protect freedom of speech. It is an effort by Congress to
ensure that civic discourse takes place only through the modes of
its choosing. And BCRA is only the beginning, as its congressional
proponents freely admit:

															“This is a modest step, it is a first step,
it is an essential step, but it does not even begin to address, in
some ways, the fundamental problems that exist with the hard money
aspect of the system.” 148 Cong. Rec. S2101 (Mar. 20, 2002)
(statement of Sen. Feingold).

															Id., at S2097 (statement of Sen.
Wellstone) (“[P]assing this legislation … will whet
people’s appetite for more”); id., at S2101
(statement of Sen. Boxer) (“[T]his bill is not the be-all or
the end-all, but it is a strong start”); id., at
S2152 (statement of Sen. Corzine) (“[T]his should not and
will not be the last time campaign finance reform is debated on the
Senate floor. We have many more important campaign finance issues
to explore”); id., at S2157 (statement of Sen.
Torricelli) (“Make [BCRA] the beginning of a reform, not the
end of reform”); id., at H442 (Feb. 13, 2002)
(statement of Rep. Doggett) (“Mr. Chairman, if [BCRA] has any
defect, it is that it does too little, not too much”).

															   Our precedents teach, above all, that
Government cannot be trusted to moderate its own rules for
suppression of speech. The dangers posed by speech regulations have
led the Court to insist upon principled constitutional lines and a
rigorous standard of review. The majority now abandons these
distinctions and limitations.

															   With respect, I dissent from the majority
opinion upholding BCRA Titles I and II. I concur in the judgment as
to BCRA §213 and new FECA §323(e) and concur in the
judgment in part and dissent in part as to BCRA §§201,
202, and 214.

															I. TITLE I AND COORDINATION PROVISIONS

															   Title I principally bans the
solicitation, receipt, transfer and spending of soft money by the
national parties (new FECA §323(a), 2 U. S. C. A.
§441i(a) (Supp. 2003)). It also bans certain uses of soft
money by state parties (new FECA §323(b)); the transfer of
soft money from national parties to nonprofit groups (new FECA
§323(d)); the solicitation, receipt, transfer, and spending of
soft money by federal candidates and officeholders (new FECA
§323(e)); and certain uses of soft money by state candidates
(new FECA §323(f)). These provisions, and the other provisions
with which this opinion is principally concerned, are set out in
full, see Appendix, infra. Even a cursory review of the
speech and association burdens these laws create makes their First
Amendment infirmities obvious:

															   Title I bars individuals with
shared beliefs from pooling their money above limits set by
Congress to form a new third party. See new FECA §323(a).

															   Title I bars national party officials from
soliciting or directing soft money to state parties for use on a
state ballot initiative. This is true even if no federal office
appears on the same ballot as the state initiative. See new FECA
§323(a).

															   A national party’s mere involvement in
the strategic planning of fundraising for a state ballot initiative
risks a determination that the national party is exercising
“indirect control” of the state party. If that
determination is made, the state party must abide by federal
regulations. And this is so even if the federal candidate on the
ballot, if there is one, runs unopposed or is so certain of
election that the only voter interest is in the state and local
campaigns. See new FECA §323(a).

															   Title I compels speech. Party officials who
want to engage in activity such as fundraising must now speak magic
words to ensure the solicitation cannot be interpreted as anything
other than a solicitation for hard, not soft, money. See
ibid.

															   Title I prohibits the national parties from
giving any sort of funds to nonprofit entities, even federally
regulated hard money, and even if the party hoped to sponsor the
interest group’s exploration of a particular issue in advance
of the party’s addition of it to their platform. See new FECA
§323(d).

															   By express terms, Title I imposes multiple
different forms of spending caps on parties, candidates, and their
agents. See new FECA §§323(a), (e), and (f).

															   Title I allows state parties to raise
quasi-soft money Levin funds for use in activities that might
affect a federal election; but the Act prohibits national parties
from assisting state parties in developing and executing these
fundraising plans, even when the parties seek only to advance state
election interests. See new FECA §323(b).

															   Until today’s consolidated
cases, the Court has accepted but two principles to use in
determining the validity of campaign finance restrictions. First is
the anticorruption rationale. The principal concern, of course, is
the agreement for a quid pro quo between officeholders (or
candidates) and those who would seek to influence them. The Court
has said the interest in preventing corruption allows limitations
on receipt of the quid by a candidate or officeholder,
regardless of who gives it or of the intent of the donor or
officeholder. See Buckley, 424 U. S., at 26– 27,
45–48; infra, at  7–10. Second, the Court
has analyzed laws that classify on the basis of the speaker’s
corporate or union identity under the corporate speech rationale.
The Court has said that the willing adoption of the entity form by
corporations and unions justifies regulating them differently:
Their ability to give candidates quids may be subject not
only to limits but also to outright bans; their electoral speech
may likewise be curtailed. See Austin, 494 U. S., at
659–660; Federal Election Comm’n v.
National Right to Work Comm., 459 U. S. 197,
201–211 (1982).

															   The majority today opens with rhetoric that
suggests a conflation of the anticorruption rationale with the
corporate speech rationale. See ante, at 3–6
(hearkening back to, among others, Elihu Root and his advocacy
against the use of corporate funds in political campaigning). The
conflation appears designed to cast the speech regulated here as
unseemly corporate speech. The effort, however, is unwarranted, and
not just because money is not per se the evil the majority
thinks. Most of the regulations at issue, notably all of the Title
I soft money bans and the Title II coordination provisions, do not
draw distinctions based on corporate or union status. Referring to
the corporate speech rationale as if it were the linchpin of the
case, when corporate speech is not primarily at issue, adds no
force to the Court’s analysis. Instead, the focus must be on
Buckley’s anticorruption rationale and the First
Amendment rights of individual citizens.

															A. Constitutionally Sufficient Interest

															   In Buckley, the Court
held that one, and only one, interest justified the significant
burden on the right of association involved there: eliminating, or
preventing, actual corruption or the appearance of corruption
stemming from contributions to candidates.

															“It is unnecessary to look beyond the
Act’s primary purpose—to limit the actuality and
appearance of corruption resulting from large individual financial
contributions—in order to find a constitutionally sufficient
justification for the $1,000 contribution limitation.” 424 U.
S., at 26.

															See also ibid. (concluding this corruption
interest was sufficiently “significant” to sustain
“closely drawn” interference with protected First
Amendment rights).

															   In parallel, Buckley concluded the
expenditure limitations in question were invalid because they did
not advance that same interest. See id., at 47–48
(“[T]he independent expenditure ceiling thus fails to serve
any substantial governmental interest in stemming the reality or
appearance of corruption in the electoral process”); see also
id., at 45, 46.

															   Thus, though Buckley subjected
expenditure limits to strict scrutiny and contribution limits to
less exacting review, it held neither could withstand
constitutional challenge unless it was shown to advance the
anticorruption interest. In these consolidated cases, unless
Buckley is to be repudiated, we must conclude that the
regulations further that interest before considering whether they
are closely drawn or narrowly tailored. If the interest is not
advanced, the regulations cannot comport with the Constitution,
quite apart from the standard of review.

															   Buckley made clear, by its express
language and its context, that the corruption interest only
justifies regulating candidates’ and officeholders’
receipt of what we can call the “quids” in the
quid pro quo formulation. The Court rested its decision on
the principle that campaign finance regulation that restricts
speech without requiring proof of particular corrupt action
withstands constitutional challenge only if it regulates conduct
posing a demonstrable quid pro quo danger:

															“To the extent that large contributions are
given to secure a political quid pro quo from current and
potential office holders, the integrity of our system of
representative democracy is undermined.” Id., at
26–27.

															See also id., at 45 (“[A]ssuming,
arguendo, that large independent expenditures pose the
same dangers of actual or apparent quid pro quo
arrangements as do large contributions …”). That
Buckley rested its decision on this quid pro quo
standard is not a novel observation. We have held this was the
case:

															“The exception [of contribution limits being
justified under the First Amendment] relates to the perception of
undue influence of large contributions to a candidate:
‘ To the extent that large contributions are given to
secure a political quid pro quo from current and potential
office holders, the integrity of our system of representative
democracy is undermined.’ ” Citizens Against
Rent Control/Coalition for Fair Housing v.
Berkeley, 454 U. S. 290, 297 (1981) (quoting
Buckley, supra, at 26–27).

															See also Federal Election Comm’n v.
Beaumont, 539 U. S. ___ (2003) (furthering this
anticorruption rationale by upholding limits on contributions given
directly to candidates); Nixon v. Shrink Missouri
Government PAC, 528 U. S. 377 (2000)
(same).

															   Despite the Court’s attempt to rely on
language from cases like Shrink Missouri to establish that
the standard defining corruption is broader than conduct that
presents a quid pro quo danger, see ante, at 43,
n. 48, in those cases the Court in fact upheld limits on conduct
possessing quid pro quo dangers, and nothing more. See
also infra, 12. For example, the Shrink Missouri
Court’s distinguishing of what was at issue there and
quid pro quo, in fact, shows only that it used the term
quid pro quo to refer to actual corrupt, vote-buying
exchanges, as opposed to interactions that possessed quid pro
quo potential even if innocently undertaken. Thus, the Court
said:

															“[W]e spoke in Buckley of the perception of
corruption ‘inherent in a regime of large individual
financial contributions’ to candidates for public office . .
. as a source of concern “almost equal” to quid pro
quo improbity.” 528 U. S., at 390 (citations
omitted).

															Thus, the perception of corruption that the
majority now asserts is somehow different from the quid pro
quo potential discussed in this opinion, was created by an
exchange featuring quid pro quo
potential—contributions directly to a candidate.

															   In determining whether conduct poses a
quid pro quo danger the analysis is functional. In
Buckley, the Court confronted an expenditure limitation
provision that capped the amount of money individuals could spend
on any activity intended to influence a federal election
(i.e., it reached to both independent and coordinated
expenditures). See 424 U. S., at 46–47. The Court concluded
that though the limitation reached both coordinated and independent
expenditures, there were other valid FECA provisions that barred
coordinated expenditures. Hence, the limit at issue only added
regulation to independent expenditures. On that basis it concluded
the provision was unsupported by any valid corruption interest. The
conduct to which it added regulation (independent expenditures)
posed no quid pro quo danger. See ibid.

															   Placing Buckley’s
anticorruption rationale in the context of the federal legislative
power yields the following rule: Congress’ interest in
preventing corruption provides a basis for regulating federal
candidates’ and officeholders’ receipt of
quids, whether or not the candidate or officeholder
corruptly received them. Conversely, the rule requires the Court to
strike down campaign finance regulations when they do not add
regulation to “actual or apparent quid pro quo
arrangements.” Id., at 45.

															   The Court ignores these constitutional bounds
and in effect interprets the anticorruption rationale to allow
regulation not just of “actual or apparent quid pro
quo arrangements,” ibid., but of any conduct
that wins goodwill from or influences a Member of Congress. It is
not that there is any quarrel between this opinion and the majority
that the inquiry since Buckley has been whether certain
conduct creates “undue influence.” See ante,
at 40–41. On that we agree. The very aim of
Buckley’s standard, however, was to define undue
influence by reference to the presence of quid pro quo
involving the officeholder. The Court, in contrast, concludes that
access, without more, proves influence is undue. Access, in the
Court’s view, has the same legal ramifications as actual or
apparent corruption of officeholders. This new definition of
corruption sweeps away all protections for speech that lie in its
path.

															   The majority says it is not abandoning our
cases in this way, but its reasoning shows otherwise:

															   “More importantly,
plaintiffs conceive of corruption too narrowly. Our cases have
firmly established that Congress’ legitimate interest extends
beyond preventing simple cash-for-votes corruption to curbing
‘undue influence on an officeholder’s judgment, or the
appearance of such influence.’ [Federal Election
Comm’n v. Colorado Republican Federal Campaign
Comm., 533
U. S. 431, 441 (2001) (Colorado II)]. Many of the
‘deeply disturbing examples’ of corruption cited by
this Court in Buckley to justify FECA’s contribution
limits were not episodes of vote buying, but evidence that various
corporate interests had given substantial donations to gain access
to high-level government officials. Even if that access did not
secure actual influence, it certainly gave the ‘appearance of
such influence.’ Colorado II, supra, at
441; see also [Buckley v. Valeo, 519 F. 2d
821, 838 (CADC 1975)].

															   “The record in the present case is
replete with similar examples of national party committees peddling
access to federal candidates and officeholders in exchange for
large soft-money donations. See [251 F. Supp. 2d 176,
492–506 (DC 2003) (Kollar-Kotelly, J.)].”
Ante, at 40–41.

															   The majority notes that access
flowed from the regulated conduct at issue in Buckley and
its progeny, then uses that fact as the basis for concluding that
access peddling by the parties equals corruption by the candidates.
That conclusion, however, is tenable only by a quick and subtle
shift, and one that breaks new ground: The majority ignores the
quid pro quo nature of the regulated conduct central to
our earlier decisions. It relies instead solely on the fact that
access flowed from the conduct.

															   To ignore the fact that in Buckley
the money at issue was given to candidates, creating an obvious
quid pro quo danger as much as it led to the candidates
also providing access to the donors, is to ignore the Court’s
comments in Buckley that show quid pro quo was of
central importance to the analysis. See 424 U. S., at 26–27,
45. The majority also ignores that in Buckley, and ever
since, those party contributions that have been subject to
congressional limit were not general party-building contributions
but were only contributions used to influence particular elections.
That is, they were contributions that flowed to a particular
candidate’s benefit, again posing a quid pro quo
danger. And it ignores that in Colorado II, the party
spending was that which was coordinated with a particular
candidate, thereby implicating quid pro quo dangers. In
all of these ways the majority breaks the necessary tether between
quid and access and assumes that access, all by itself,
demonstrates corruption and so can support regulation. See also
ante, at 47 (“[L]arge soft-money donations to
national party committees are likely to buy donors preferential
access to federal officeholders no matter the ends to which their
contributions are eventually put”).

															   Access in itself, however, shows only that in
a general sense an officeholder favors someone or that someone has
influence on the officeholder. There is no basis, in law or in
fact, to say favoritism or influence in general is the same as
corrupt favoritism or influence in particular. By equating vague
and generic claims of favoritism or influence with actual or
apparent corruption, the Court adopts a definition of corruption
that dismantles basic First Amendment rules, permits Congress to
suppress speech in the absence of a quid pro quo threat,
and moves beyond the rationale that is Buckley’s
very foundation.

															   The generic favoritism or influence theory
articulated by the Court is at odds with standard First Amendment
analyses because it is unbounded and susceptible to no limiting
principle. Any given action might be favored by any given person,
so by the Court’s reasoning political loyalty of the purest
sort can be prohibited. There is no remaining principled method for
inquiring whether a campaign finance regulation does in fact
regulate corruption in a serious and meaningful way. We are left to
defer to a congressional conclusion that certain conduct creates
favoritism or influence.

															   Though the majority cites common sense as the
foundation for its definition of corruption, see ante, at
35, 43, in the context of the real world only a single definition
of corruption has been found to identify political corruption
successfully and to distinguish good political responsiveness from
bad—that is quid pro quo. Favoritism and influence
are not, as the Government’s theory suggests, avoidable in
representative politics. It is in the nature of an elected
representative to favor certain policies, and, by necessary
corollary, to favor the voters and contributors who support those
policies. It is well understood that a substantial and legitimate
reason, if not the only reason, to cast a vote for, or to make a
contribution to, one candidate over another is that the candidate
will respond by producing those political outcomes the supporter
favors. Democracy is premised on responsiveness. Quid pro
quo corruption has been, until now, the only agreed upon
conduct that represents the bad form of responsiveness and presents
a justiciable standard with a relatively clear limiting principle:
Bad responsiveness may be demonstrated by pointing to a
relationship between an official and a quid.

															   The majority attempts to mask its extension of
Buckley under claims that BCRA prevents the appearance of
corruption, even if it does not prevent actual corruption, since
some assert that any donation of money to a political party is
suspect. See ante, at 40–42. Under
Buckley’s holding that Congress has a valid
“interest in stemming the reality or appearance of
corruption,” 424 U. S., at 47–48, however, the inquiry
does not turn on whether some persons assert that an appearance of
corruption exists. Rather, the inquiry turns on whether the
Legislature has established that the regulated conduct has inherent
corruption potential, thus justifying the inference that regulating
the conduct will stem the appearance of real corruption.
Buckley was guided and constrained by this analysis. In
striking down expenditure limits the Court in Buckley did
not ask whether people thought large election expenditures corrupt,
because clearly at that time many persons, including a majority of
Congress and the President, did. See id., at 25
(“According to the parties and amici, the primary
interest served . . . by the Act as a whole, is the prevention of
corruption and the appearance of corruption”). Instead, the
Court asked whether the Government had proved that the regulated
conduct, the expenditures, posed inherent quid pro quo
corruption potential. See id., at 46.

															   The Buckley decision made this
analysis even clearer in upholding contribution limitations. It
stated that even if actual corrupt contribution practices had not
been proved, Congress had an interest in regulating the appearance
of corruption that is “inherent in a regime of large
individual financial contributions.” Id., at 27
(discussing contributions to candidates). See also id., at
28, 30. The quid pro quo nature of candidate contributions
justified the conclusion that the contributions pose inherent
corruption potential; and this in turn justified the conclusion
that their regulation would stem the appearance of real
corruption.

															   From that it follows that the Court today
should not ask, as it does, whether some persons, even Members of
Congress, conclusorily assert that the regulated conduct appears
corrupt to them. Following Buckley, it should instead
inquire whether the conduct now prohibited inherently poses a real
or substantive quid pro quo danger, so that its regulation
will stem the appearance of quid pro quo corruption.

															1. New FECA §§323(a), (b), (d), and
(f)

															   Sections 323(a), (b), (d), and
(f), 2 U. S. C. A. §§441i(a), (b), (d), and
(f ) (Supp. 2003), cannot stand because they do not add
regulation to conduct that poses a demonstrable quid pro
quo danger. They do not further Buckley’s
corruption interest.

															   The majority, with a broad brush,
paints §323(a) as aimed at limiting contributions possessing
federal officeholder corruption potential. From there it would
justify §323’s remaining provisions as necessary
complements to ensure the national parties cannot circumvent
§323(a)’s prohibitions. The broad brush approach fails,
however, when the provisions are reviewed under
Buckley’s proper definition of corruption
potential.

															   On its face §323(a) does not regulate
federal candidates’ or officeholders’ receipt of
quids because it does not regulate contributions to, or
conduct by, candidates or officeholders. See BCRA §101(a)
(setting out new FECA §323(a): National parties may not
“solicit, receive, or direct to another person … or
spend any [soft money]”).

															   The realities that underlie the statute,
furthermore, do not support the majority’s interpretation.
Before BCRA’s enactment, parties could only use soft money
for a candidate’s “benefit” (e.g.,
through issue ads, which all parties now admit may influence
elections) independent of that candidate. And, as discussed later,
§323(e) validly prohibits federal candidate and officeholder
solicitation of soft money party donations. See infra, at
31. Section 323(a), therefore, only adds regulation to soft money
party donations not solicited by, or spent in coordination with, a
candidate or officeholder.

															   These donations (noncandidate or officeholder
solicited soft money party donations that are independently spent)
do not pose the quid pro quo dangers that provide the
basis for restricting protected speech. Though the government
argues §323(a) does regulate federal candidates’ and
officeholders’ receipt of quids, it bases its
argument on this flawed reasoning:

															   (1) “[F]ederal elected
officeholders are inextricably linked to their political
parties,” Brief for Appellees/Cross Appellants FEC
et al. in No. 02–1674 et al., p. 21; cf.
Colorado Republican Federal Campaign Comm. v. Federal
Election Comm’n, 518 U. S. 604, 626 (1996)
(Colorado I) (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment and
dissenting in part).

															   (2) All party receipts must be connected to,
and must create, corrupt donor favoritism among these
officeholders.

															   (3) Therefore, regulation of party receipts
equals regulation of quids to the party’s
officeholders.

															   The reasoning is flawed because
the Government’s reliance on reasoning parallel to the
Colorado I concurrence only establishes the first step in
its chain of logic: that a party is a proxy for its candidates
generally. It does not establish the second step: that as a proxy
for its candidates generally, all moneys the party
receives (not just candidate solicited-soft money donations, or
donations used in coordinated activity) represent quids
for all the party’s candidates and officeholders. The
Government’s analysis is inconsistent with what a majority of
the Justices, in different opinions, have said.

															   Justice Thomas’ dissent in Colorado
II, 533 U. S., at 476–477, taken together with Justice
Breyer’s opinion announcing the judgment of the Court in
Colorado I, rebuts the second step of the
Government’s argument. Justice Thomas demonstrated that a
general party-candidate corruption linkage does not exist. As he
pointed out:

															“The dearth of evidence [of such corruption]
is unsurprising in light of the unique relationship between a
political party and its candidates: ‘The very aim of a
political party is to influence its candidate’s stance on
issues and, if the candidate takes office or is reelected, his
votes.’ If coordinated expenditures help achieve this aim,
the achievement ‘does not … constitute “a
subversion of the political
process.” ’ ” Colorado II,
supra, at 476–477 (citations omitted).
   Justice Breyer reached
the same conclusion about the corrupting effect general party
receipts could have on particular candidates, though on narrower
grounds. He concluded that independent party conduct lacks quid
pro quo corruption potential. See Colorado I, 518 U.
S., at 617–618; id., at 617 (“If anything, an
independent [party] expenditure made possible by a $20,000
donation, but controlled and directed by a party rather than the
donor, would seem less likely to corrupt than the same (or a much
larger) independent expenditure made directly by that
donor”); id., at 616 (“[T]he opportunity for
corruption posed by [soft money] contributions is, at best,
attenuated” because they may not be used for the purposes of
influencing a federal election under FECA).

															   These opinions establish that independent
party activity, which by definition includes independent receipt
and spending of soft money, lacks a possibility for quid pro
quo corruption of federal officeholders. This must be all the
more true of a party’s independent receipt and spending of
soft money donations neither directed to nor solicited by a
candidate.

															   The Government’s premise is also
unsupported by the record before us. The record confirms that soft
money party contributions, without more, do not create quid pro
quo corruption potential. As a conceptual matter, generic
party contributions may engender good will from a can- didate or
officeholder because, as the Government says:
“[A] Member of Congress can be expected to feel a
natural temptation to favor those persons who have helped the
‘team,’ ” Brief for
Appellees/Cross-Appellants FEC et al. in No. 02–1674
et al., p. 33. Still, no Member of Congress testified
this favoritism changed voting behavior.

															   The piece of record evidence the Government
puts forward on this score comes by way of deposition testimony
from former Senator Simon and Senator Feingold. See 251
F. Supp. 2d 176, 482 (DC 2003) (Kollar-Kotelly, J.). Senator
Simon reported an unidentified colleague indicated frustration with
Simon’s opposition to legislation that would benefit a party
contributor on the grounds that “ ‘we’ve got
to pay attention to who is buttering our bread’ ”
and testified he did not think there was any question
“ ‘this’ ” (i.e.,
“donors getting their way”) was why the legislation
passed. See App. 805. Senator Feingold, too, testified an
unidentified colleague suggested he support the legislation because
“ ‘they [i.e., the donor] just gave us
[i.e., the party] $100,000.’ ” 251
F. Supp. 2d, at 482 (Kollar-Kotelly, J.).

															   That evidence in fact works against the
Government. These two testifying Senators expressed disgust toward
the favoring of a soft money giver, and not the good will one would
have expected under the Government’s theory. That necessarily
undercuts the inference of corruption the Government would have us
draw from the evidence.

															   Even more damaging to the Government’s
argument from the testimony is the absence of testimony that the
Senator who allegedly succumbed to corrupt influence had himself
solicited soft money from the donor in question. Equally, there is
no indication he simply favored the company with his vote because
it had, without any involvement from him, given funds to the party
to which he belonged. This fact is crucial. If the Senator himself
had been the solicitor of the soft money funds in question, the
incident does nothing more than confirm that Congress’
efforts at campaign finance reform ought to be directed to conduct
that implicates quid pro quo relationships. Only if there
was some evidence that the officeholder had not solicited funds
from the donor could the Court extrapolate from this episode that
general party contributions function as quids, inspiring
corrupt favoritism among party members. The episode is the single
one of its type reported in the record and does not seem sufficient
basis for major incursions into settled practice. Given the
Government’s claim that the corrupt favoritism problem is
widespread, its inability to produce more than a single instance
purporting to illustrate the point demonstrates the Government has
not fairly characterized the general attitudes of Members towards
soft money donors from whom they have not solicited.

															   Other aspects of the record confirm the
Government has not produced evidence that Members corruptly favor
soft money donors to their party as a per se matter. Most
testimony from which the Government would have the Court infer
corruption is testimony that Members are rewarded by their parties
for soliciting soft money. See id., at 438–521
(Kollar-Kotelly, J.). This says nothing about how Members feel
about a party’s soft money donors from whom they have not
solicited. Indeed, record evidence on this point again cuts against
the Government:

															“ ‘As a Member of the Senate
Finance Committee, I experienced the pressure first hand. On
several occasions when we were debating important tax bills, I
needed a police escort to get into the Finance Committee hearing
room because so many lobbyists were crowding the halls, trying to
get one last chance to make their pitch to each Senator. Senators
generally knew which lobbyist represented the interests of which
large donor. I was often glad that I limited the amount of soft
money fundraising I did and did not take PAC contributions, because
it would be extremely difficult not to feel beholden to these
donors otherwise.’ ” Id., at 482
(testimony of former Senator Boren; see 6–R Defs. Exhs., Tab
8, ¶ ;8).

															Thus, one of the handful of Senators on whom the
Government relies to make its case candidly admits the pressure of
appeasing soft money donors derives from the Members’
solicitation of donors, not from those donors’ otherwise
giving to their party.

															   In light of all this, §323(a) has no
valid anticorruption interest. The anticircumvention interests the
Government offers in defense of §§323(b), (d), and (f)
must also fall with the interests asserted to justify §323(a).
Any anticircumvention interest can be only as compelling as the
interest justifying the underlying regulation.

															   None of these other sections has an
independent justifying interest. Section 323(b), for example, adds
regulation only to activity undertaken by a state party. In the
District Court two of the three judges found as fact that
particular state and local parties exist primarily to participate
in state and local elections, that they spend the majority of their
resources on those elections, and that their voter registration and
Get Out The Vote (GOTV) activities, in particular, are directed
primarily at state and local elections. See 251 F. Supp. 2d,
at 301–302 (Henderson, J., concurring in judgment in part and
dissenting in part); id., at 837–840 (Leon, J.).
These findings, taken together with BCRA’s other, valid
prohibitions barring coordination with federal candidates or
officeholders and their soft money solicitation, demonstrate that
§323(b) does not add regulation to conduct that poses a danger
of a federal candidate’s or officeholder’s receipt of
quids.

															   Even §323(b)’s narrowest
regulation, which bans state party soft money funded ads that (1)
refer to a clearly identified federal candidate, and (2) either
support or attack any candidate for the office of the clearly
mentioned federal candidate, see new FECA §301(20)(A)(iii),
fails the constitutional test. The ban on conduct that by the
statute’s own definition may serve the interest of a federal
candidate suggests to the majority that it is conduct that poses
quid pro quo danger for federal candidates or
officeholders. Yet, even this effect—considered after
excising the coordination and candidate-solicited funding aspects
elsewhere prohibited by BCRA §§202 and 214(a) and new
FECA §323(a)—poses no danger of a federal
candidate’s or officeholder’s receipt of a
quid. That conduct is no different from an
individual’s independent expenditure referring to and
supporting a clearly identified candidate—and this poses no
regulable danger.

															   Section 323(d), which governs relationships
between the national parties and nonprofit groups, fails for
similar reasons. It is worth noting that neither the record nor our
own experience tells us how significant these funds transfers are
at this time. It is plain, however, that the First Amendment ought
not to be manipulated to permit Congress to forbid a political
party from aiding other speakers whom the party deems more
effective in addressing discrete issues. One of the central flaws
in BCRA is that Congress is determining what future course the
creation of ideas and the expression of views must follow. Its
attempt to foreclose new and creative partnerships for speech, as
illustrated here, is consistent with neither the traditions nor
principles of our Free Speech guarantee, which insists that the
people, and not the Congress, decide what modes of expression are
the most legitimate and effective.

															   The majority’s upholding §323(d) is
all the more unsettling because of the way it ignores the Act as
Congress wrote it. Congress said national parties “shall not
solicit any funds for, or make or direct any donations to”
§501(c) nonprofit organizations that engage in federal
election activity or to §527 political committees. The Court,
however, reads out the word “any” and construes the
words “funds” and “donations” to mean
“soft money funds” and “soft money
donations.” See ante, at 72 (“This
construction is consistent with the concerns animating Title I,
whose purpose is to plug the soft-money loophole”). The
Court’s statutory amendment may be consistent with its
anti-soft-money rationale; it is not, however, consistent with the
plain and unavoidable statutory text Congress has given us. Even as
construed by the Court, moreover, it is invalid.

															   The majority strains to save the provision
from what must seem to it an unduly harsh First Amendment. It does
so by making a legislative determination Congress chose not to
make: to prefer hard money to soft money within the construct of
national party relationships with nonprofit groups. Congress gave
no indication of a preference to regulate either hard money or soft
in this context. Rather, it simply proscribed all transfers of
money between the two organizations and all efforts by the national
parties to raise any money on the nonprofit groups’ behalf.
The question the Court faces is not which part of a text to sever
and strike, but whether Congress can prohibit such transfers
altogether. The answer, as the majority recognizes, is no. See
ante, at 71 (“[P]rohibiting parties from donating
funds already raised in compliance with FECA does little to further
Congress’ goal of preventing corruption or the appearance of
corruption of federal candidates and officeholders”).

															   Though §323(f) in effect imposes limits
on candidate contributions, it does not address federal candidate
and officeholder contributions. Yet it is the possibility of
federal officeholder quid pro quo corruption potential
that animates Buckley’s rule as it relates to Acts
of Congress (as opposed to Acts of state legislatures). See 424 U.
S., at 13 (“The constitutional power of Congress to regulate
federal elections is well established”).

															   When one recognizes that §§323(a),
(b), (d), and (f) do not serve the interest the anticorruption
rationale contemplates, Title I’s entirety begins to look
very much like an incumbency protection plan. See J. Miller,
Monopoly Politics 84–101 (1999) (concluding that regulations
limiting election fundraising and spending constrain challengers
more than incumbents). That impression is worsened by the fact that
Congress exempted its officeholders from the more stringent
prohibitions imposed on party officials. Compare new FECA
§323(a) with new FECA §323(e). Section 323(a) raises an
inflexible bar against soft money solicitation, in any way, by
parties or party officials. Section 323(e), in contrast, enacts
exceptions to the rule for federal officeholders (the very
centerpiece of possible corruption), and allows them to solicit
soft money for various uses and organizations.

															   The law in some respects even weakens the
regulation of federal candidates and officeholders. Under former
law, officeholders were understood to be limited to receipt of hard
money by their campaign committees. See 2 U. S. C.
§§431, 441a (setting out the pre-BCRA FECA regime). BCRA,
however, now allows them and their campaign committees to receive
soft money that fits the hard money source and amount restrictions,
so long as the officeholders direct that money on to other
nonfederal candidates. See new FECA §323(e)(1)(B). The
majority’s characterization of this weakening of the regime
as “tightly constrain[ing]” candidates, ante,
at 73, n. 70, is a prime example of its unwillingness to
confront Congress’ own interest or the persisting fact that
the regulations violate First Amendment freedoms. The more lenient
treatment accorded to incumbency-driven politicians than to party
officials who represent broad national constituencies must render
all the more suspect Congress’ claim that the Act’s
sole purpose is to stop corruption.

															   The majority answers this charge
by stating the obvious, that “§323(e) applies to both
officeholders and candidates.” Ante, at 78,
n. 72. The controlling point, of course, is the practical burden on
challengers. That the prohibition applies to both incumbents and
challengers in no way establishes that it burdens them equally in
that regard. Name recognition and other advantages held by
incumbents ensure that as a general rule incumbents will be
advantaged by the legislation the Court today upholds.

															   The Government identifies no
valid anticorruption interest justifying §§323(a), (b),
(d), and (f). The very nature of the restrictions imposed by these
provisions makes one all the more skeptical of the Court’s
explanation of the interests at stake. These provisions cannot
stand under the First Amendment.

															2. New FECA §323(e)

															   Ultimately, only one of the
challenged Title I provisions satisfies Buckley’s
anticorruption rationale and the First Amendment’s guarantee.
It is §323(e). This provision is the sole aspect of Title I
that is a direct and necessary regulation of federal
candidates’ and officeholders’ receipt of
quids. Section 323(e) governs “candidate[s],
individual[s] holding Federal office, agent[s] of a candidate or an
individual holding Federal office, or an entity directly or
indirectly established, financed, maintained or controlled by or
acting on behalf of 1 or more candidates or individuals holding
Federal office.” 2 U. S. C. A. §441i(e) (Supp.
2003). These provisions, and the regulations that follow, limit
candidates’ and their agents’ solicitation of soft
money. The regulation of a candidate’s receipt of funds
furthers a constitutionally sufficient interest. More difficult,
however, is the question whether regulation of a candidate’s
solicitation of funds also furthers this interest if the funds are
given to another.

															   I agree with the Court that the
broader solicitation regulation does further a sufficient interest.
The making of a solicited gift is a quid both to the
recipient of the money and to the one who solicits the payment (by
granting his request). Rules governing candidates’ or
officeholders’ solicitation of contributions are, therefore,
regulations governing their receipt of quids. This
regulation fits under Buckley’s anticorruption
rationale.

															B. Standard of Review

															   It is common ground between the
majority and this opinion that a speech-suppressing campaign
finance regulation, even if supported by a sufficient Government
interest, is unlawful if it cannot satisfy our designated standard
of review. See ante, at 24–27. In Buckley,
we applied “closely drawn” scrutiny to contribution
limitations and strict scrutiny to expenditure limitations. Compare
424 U. S., at 25, with id., at 44–45. Against that
backdrop, the majority assumes that because Buckley
applied the rationale in the context of contribution and
expenditure limits, its application gives Congress and the Court
the capacity to classify any challenged campaign finance regulation
as either a contribution or an expenditure limit. Thus, it first
concludes Title I’s regulations are contributions limits and
then proceeds to apply the lesser scrutiny.

															“Complex as its provisions may be, §323,
in the main, does little more than regulate the ability of wealthy
individuals, corporations, and unions to contribute large sums of
money to influence federal elections, federal candidates, and
federal officeholders.” Ante, at 28.

															   Though the majority’s
analysis denies it, Title I’s dynamics defy this facile,
initial classification.

															   Title I’s provisions prohibit the
receipt of funds; and in most instances, but not all, this can be
defined as a contribution limit. They prohibit the spending of
funds; and in most instances this can be defined as an expenditure
limit. They prohibit the giving of funds to nonprofit groups; and
this falls within neither definition as we have ever defined it.
Finally, they prohibit fundraising activity; and the parties
dispute the classification of this regulation (the challengers say
it is core political association, while the Government says it
ultimately results only in a limit on contribution receipts).

															   The majority’s classification overlooks
these competing characteristics and exchanges
Buckley’s substance for a formulaic caricature of
it. Despite the parties’ and the majority’s best
efforts on both sides of the question, it ignores reality to force
these regulations into one of the two legal categories as either
contribution or expenditure limitations. Instead, these
characteristics seem to indicate Congress has enacted regulations
that are neither contribution nor expenditure limits, or are
perhaps both at once.

															   Even if the laws could be classified in broad
terms as only contribution limits, as the majority is inclined to
do, that still leaves the question what “contribution
limits” can include if they are to be upheld under
Buckley. Buckley’s application of a less
exacting review to contribution limits must be confined to the
narrow category of money gifts that are directed, in some manner,
to a candidate or officeholder. Any broader definition of the
category contradicts Buckley’s quid pro quo
rationale and overlooks Buckley’s language, which
contemplates limits on contributions to a candidate or campaign
committee in explicit terms. See 424 U. S., at 13 (applying less
exacting review to “contribution … limitations in the
Act prohibit[ing] individuals from contributing more than $25,000
in a single year or more than $1,000 to any single candidate for an
election campaign”); id., at 45 (“[T]he
contribution limitations’ [apply a] total ban on the giving
of large amounts of money to candidates”). See also
id., at 20, 25, 28.

															   The Court, it must be acknowledged, both in
Buckley and on other occasions, has described contribution
limits due some more deferential review in less than precise terms.
At times it implied that donations to political parties would also
qualify as contributions whose limitation too would be subject to
less exacting review. See id., at 23–24, n. 24
(“[T]he general understanding of what constitutes a political
contribution[:] Funds provided to a candidate or political party or
campaign committee either directly or indirectly through an
intermediary constitute a contribution”). See also
Federal Election Comm’n v. Beaumont, 539 U.
S., at ___ (2003) (slip op., at 14)
(“ ‘[C]ontributions may result in political
expression if spent by a candidate or an
association’ ”).

															   These seemingly conflicting statements are
best reconciled by reference to Buckley’s underlying
rationale for applying less exacting review. In a similar, but more
imperative, sense proper application of the standard of review to
regulations that are neither contribution nor expenditure limits
(or which are both at once) can only be determined by reference to
that rationale.

															   Buckley’s underlying rationale
is this: Less exacting review applies to Government regulations
that “significantly interfere” with First Amendment
rights of association. But any regulation of speech or
associational rights creating “markedly greater
interference” than such significant interference receives
strict scrutiny. Unworkable and ill advised though it may be,
Buckley unavoidably sets forth this test:

															“Even a ‘ “significant
interference” with protected rights of political
association’ may be sustained if the State demonstrates [1] a
sufficiently important interest and [2] employs means closely drawn
to avoid unnecessary abridgment of associational freedoms.
Cousins v. Wigoda, [419 U. S. 477, 488
(1975)]; NAACP v. Button, [371 U. S. 415, 438
(1963)]; Shelton v. Tucker [364 U. S. 479, 488
(1960)].” 424 U. S., at 25.

															“The markedly greater burden on basic freedoms [referring
to ‘the freedom of speech and association’] caused by
[expenditure limits] thus cannot be sustained simply by invoking
the interest in maximizing the effectiveness of the less intrusive
contribution limitations. Rather, the constitutionality of [the
expenditure limits] turns on whether the governmental interests
advanced in its support satisfy the exacting scrutiny applicable to
limitations on core First Amendment rights of political
expression.” Id., at 44–45.†

													
