::SCDB_caseID:: 0
::decision_cite:: 540 US 398 (2003)
::decision_name::  Verizon Communications, Inc. v. Law Offices of Curtis V. Trinko, LLP
::decision_year:: 2003
::opinion_author:: Stevens
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 


STEVENS, J., CONCURRING IN JUDGMENT
VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC. V. LAW OFFICESOF CURTIS V. TRINKO,
LLP
540 U. S. ____ (2004)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 02-682

															VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC., PETITIONER v.
LAW OFFICES OF CURTIS V. TRINKO, LLP

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the second circuit

															[January 13, 2004]

															   Justice Stevens, with whom
Justice Souter and Justice Thomas join, concurring in the
judgment.

															   In complex cases it is usually
wise to begin by deciding whether the plaintiff has standing to
maintain the action. Respondent, the plaintiff in this case, is a
local telephone service customer of AT&T. Its complaint alleges
that it has received unsatisfactory service because Verizon has
engaged in conduct that adversely affects AT&T’s ability
to serve its customers, in violation of §2 of the Sherman Act.
15 U. S. C. §2. Respondent seeks from Verizon treble
damages, a remedy that §4 of the Clayton Act makes available
to “any person who has been injured in his business or
property.” 15 U. S. C. §15. The threshold question
presented by the complaint is whether, assuming the truth of its
allegations, respondent is a “person” within the
meaning of §4.

															   Respondent would unquestionably be such a
“person” if we interpreted the text of the statute
literally. But we have eschewed a literal reading of §4,
particularly in cases in which there is only an indirect
relationship between the defendant’s alleged misconduct and
the plaintiff’s asserted injury. Associated Gen.
Contractors of Cal., Inc. v. Carpenters, 459 U. S. 519,
529–535 (1983). In such cases, “the importance of
avoiding either the risk of duplicate recoveries on the one hand,
or the danger of complex apportionment of damages on the
other,” weighs heavily against a literal reading of §4.
Id., at 543–544. Our interpretation of §4 has
thus adhered to Justice Holmes’ observation that the
“general tendency of the law, in regard to damages at least,
is not to go beyond the first step.” Southern Pacific
Co. v. Darnell-Taenzer Lumber Co., 245 U. S. 531, 533
(1918).

															   I would not go beyond the first step in this
case. Although respondent contends that its injuries were, like the
plaintiff’s injuries in Blue Shield of Va. v.
McCready, 457 U. S. 465, 479
(1982), “the very means by which … [Verizon] sought to
achieve its illegal ends,” it remains the case that whatever
antitrust injury respondent suffered because of Verizon’s
conduct was purely derivative of the injury that AT&T suffered.
And for that reason, respondent’s suit, unlike
McCready, runs both the risk of duplicative recoveries and
the danger of complex apportionment of damages. The task of
determining the monetary value of the harm caused to respondent by
AT&T’s inferior service, the portion of that harm
attributable to Verizon’s misconduct, whether all or just
some of such possible misconduct was prohibited by the Sherman Act,
and what offset, if any, should be allowed to make room for a
recovery that would make AT&T whole, is certain to be daunting.
AT&T, as the direct victim of Verizon’s alleged
misconduct, is in a far better position than respondent to
vindicate the public interest in enforcement of the antitrust laws.
Denying a remedy to AT&T’s customer is not likely to
leave a significant antitrust violation undetected or unremedied,
and will serve the strong interest “in keeping the scope of
complex antitrust trials within judicially manageable
limits.” Associated Gen. Contractors, 459 U. S., at
543.

															   In my judgment, our reasoning in
Associated General Contractors requires us to reverse the
judgment of the Court of Appeals. I would not decide the merits of
the §2 claim unless and until such a claim is advanced by
either AT&T or a similarly situated competitive local exchange
carrier.

													
