::SCDB_caseID:: 2003-053
::decision_cite:: 541 U.S. 386 (2004)
::decision_name::  Dretke v. Haley
::decision_year:: 2004
::opinion_author:: Kennedy
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 


541 U. S. ____ (2004)
DRETKE V. HALEY
541 U. S. ____ (2004)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 02-1824

															DOUG DRETKE, DIRECTOR, TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL
JUSTICE, CORRECTIONAL INSTI-TUTIONS DIVISION, PETITIONER
v. MICHAEL WAYNE HALEY

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the fifth circuit

															[May 3, 2004]

															   Justice Kennedy, dissenting.

															   For the reasons Justice Stevens
sets forth, the Respondent should be entitled to immediate relief,
and I join his dissenting opinion. The case also merits this
further comment concerning the larger obligation of state or
federal officials when they know an individual has been sentenced
for a crime he did not commit.

															   In 1997, Michael Haley was sentenced to serve
16 years and 6 months in prison for violating the Texas habitual
offender law. Texas officials concede Haley did not violate this
law. They agree that Haley is guilty only of theft, a crime with a
2-year maximum sentence. Yet, despite the fact that Haley served
more than two years in prison for his crime, Texas officials come
before our Court opposing Haley’s petition for relief. They
wish to send Haley back to prison for a crime they agree he did not
commit.

															   The rigors of the penal system are thought to
be mitigated to some degree by the discretion of those who enforce
the law. See, e.g., Jackson, The Federal Prosecutor, 31 J.
Am. Inst. Crim. L. & Criminology 3, 6 (1940–1941). The
clemency power is designed to serve the same function. Among its
benign if too-often ignored objects, the clemency power can correct
injustices that the ordinary criminal process seems unable or
unwilling to consider. These mechanisms hold out the promise that
mercy is not foreign to our system. The law must serve the cause of
justice.

															   These mitigating elements seem to have played
no role in Michael Haley’s case. Executive discretion and
clemency can inspire little confidence if officials sworn to fight
injustice choose to ignore it. Perhaps some would say that
Haley’s innocence is a mere technicality, but that would miss
the point. In a society devoted to the rule of law, the difference
between violating or not violating a criminal statute cannot be
shrugged aside as a minor detail.

															   It may be that Haley’s case provides a
convenient mechanism to vindicate an important legal principle.
Beyond that, however, Michael Haley has a greater interest in
knowing that he will not be reincarcerated for a crime he did not
commit. It is not clear to me why the State did not exercise its
power and perform its duty to vindicate that interest in the first
place.

													
