::SCDB_caseID:: 2003-069
::decision_cite:: 542 U.S. 1 (2004)
::decision_name::  Elk Grove Unified School Dist. v. Newdow
::decision_year:: 2004
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 


THOMAS, J., CONCURRING IN JUDGMENT
ELK GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DIST. V. NEWDOW
542 U. S. ____ (2004)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 02-1624

															ELK GROVE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT and DAVID W.
GORDON, SUPERINTENDENT, PETITIONERS v. MICHAEL A. NEWDOW
et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 14, 2004]

															   Justice Thomas, concurring in the
judgment.

															   We granted certiorari in this
case to decide whether the Elk Grove Unified School
District’s Pledge policy violates the Constitution. The
answer to that question is: “no.” But in a testament to
the condition of our Establishment Clause jurisprudence, the Court
of Appeals reached the opposite conclusion based on a persuasive
reading of our precedent, especially Lee v.
Weisman, 505
U. S. 577 (1992). In my view, Lee adopted an expansive
definition of “coercion” that cannot be defended
however one decides the “difficult question” of
“[w]hether and how th[e Establishment] Clause should
constrain state action under the Fourteenth Amendment.”
Zelman v. Simmons-Harris, 536 U. S. 639, 678
(2002) (Thomas, J., concurring). The difficulties with our
Establishment Clause cases, however, run far deeper than
Lee.[Footnote 1]

															   Because I agree with The Chief Justice that
respondent Newdow has standing, I would take this opportunity to
begin the process of rethinking the Establishment Clause. I would
acknowledge that the Establishment Clause is a federalism
provision, which, for this reason, resists incorporation. Moreover,
as I will explain, the Pledge policy is not implicated by any
sensible incorporation of the Establishment Clause, which would
probably cover little more than the Free Exercise Clause.

															I

															   In Lee, the Court held
that invocations and benedictions could not, consistent with the
Establishment Clause, be given at public secondary school
graduations. The Court emphasized “heightened concerns with
protecting freedom of conscience from subtle coercive pressure in
the elementary and secondary public schools.” 505 U. S., at
592. It brushed aside both the fact that the students were not
required to attend the graduation, see id., at 586
(asserting that student “attendance and participation
in” the graduation ceremony “are in a fair and real
sense obligatory”), and the fact that they were not
compelled, in any meaningful sense, to participate in the religious
component of the graduation ceremony, see id., at 593
(“What matters is that, given our social conventions, a
reasonable dissenter in this milieu could believe that the group
exercise signified her own participation or approval of it”).
The Court surmised that the prayer violated the Establishment
Clause because a high school student could—in light of the
“peer pressure” to attend graduation and “to
stand as a group or, at least, maintain respectful silence during
the invocation and benediction,” ibid.—have
“a reasonable perception that she is being forced by the
State to pray in a manner her conscience will not allow,”
ibid.
   Adherence to Lee would
require us to strike down the Pledge policy, which, in most
respects, poses more serious difficulties than the prayer at issue
in Lee. A prayer at graduation is a one-time event, the
graduating students are almost (if not already) adults, and their
parents are usually present. By contrast, very young students,
removed from the protection of their parents, are exposed to the
Pledge each and every day.

															   Moreover, this case is more troubling than
Lee with respect to both kinds of “coercion.”
First, although students may feel “peer pressure” to
attend their graduations, the pressure here is far less subtle:
Students are actually compelled (that is, by law, and not merely
“in a fair and real sense,” id., at 586) to
attend school. See also School Dist. of Abington Township
v. Schempp, 374 U. S. 203, 223
(1963).

															   Analysis of the second form of
“coercion” identified in Lee is somewhat more
complicated. It is true that since this Court decided West
Virginia Bd. of Ed. v. Barnette, 319 U. S. 624 (1943),
States cannot compel (in the traditional sense) students to pledge
their allegiance. Formally, then, dissenters can refuse to pledge,
and this refusal would be clear to onlookers.[Footnote 2] That is, students have a theoretical
means of opting out of the exercise. But as Lee indicated:
“Research in psychology supports the common assumption that
adolescents are often susceptible to pressure from their peers
towards conformity … .” 505 U. S., at
593–594 (citations omitted). On Lee’s
reasoning, Barnette’s protection is illusory, for
government officials can allow children to recite the Pledge and
let peer pressure take its natural and predictable course. Further,
even if we assume that sitting in respectful silence could be
mistaken for assent to or participation in a graduation
prayer, dissenting students graduating from high school are not
“coerced” to pray. At most, they are
“coerced” into possibly appearing to assent to the
prayer. The “coercion” here, however, results in
unwilling children actually pledging their allegiance.[Footnote 3]

															   The Chief Justice would
distinguish Lee by asserting “that the phrase
‘under God’ in the Pledge [does not] conver[t] its
recital into a ‘religious exercise’ of the sort
described in Lee.” Ante, at 14 (opinion
concurring in judgment). In Barnette, the Court addressed
a state law that compelled students to salute and pledge allegiance
to the flag. The Court described this as “compulsion of
students to declare a belief.” 319 U. S., at 631. The Pledge
“require[d] affirmation of a belief and an attitude of
mind.” Id., at 633. In its current form, reciting
the Pledge entails pledging allegiance to “the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands,
one Nation under God.” 4 U. S. C. §4. Under
Barnette, pledging allegiance is “to declare a
belief ” that now includes that this is “one
Nation under God.” It is difficult to see how this does not
entail an affirmation that God exists. Whether or not we classify
affirming the existence of God as a “formal religious
exercise” akin to prayer, it must present the same or similar
constitutional problems.

															   To be sure, such an affirmation
is not a prayer, and I admit that this might be a significant
distinction. But the Court has squarely held that the government
cannot require a person to “declare his belief in God.”
Torcaso v. Watkins, 367 U. S. 488, 489
(1961); id., at 495 (“We repeat and again reaffirm
that neither a State nor the Federal Government can
constitutionally force a person ‘to profess a belief or
disbelief in any religion’ ”); see also
Employment Div., Dept. of Human Resources of Ore. v.
Smith, 494
U. S. 872, 877 (1990) (“The government may not compel
affirmation of religious belief”); Widmar v.
Vincent, 454 U. S. 263,
269–270, n. 6 (1981) (rejecting attempt to distinguish
worship from other forms of religious speech). And the Court has
said, in my view questionably, that the Establishment Clause
“prohibits government from appearing to take a position on
questions of religious belief.” County of Allegheny
v. American Civil Liberties Union, Greater Pittsburgh
Chapter, 492 U. S. 573, 594 (1989). See also
Good News Club v. Milford Central School,
533 U. S. 98,
126–127 (2001) (Scalia, J., concurring).

															   I conclude that, as a matter of our precedent,
the Pledge policy is unconstitutional. I believe, however, that
Lee was wrongly decided. Lee depended on a notion
of “coercion” that, as I discuss below, has no basis in
law or reason. The kind of coercion implicated by the Religion
Clauses is that accomplished “by force of law and threat
of penalty.” 505 U. S., at 640 (Scalia, J., dissenting);
see id., at 640–645. Peer pressure, unpleasant as it
may be, is not coercion. But rejection of Lee-style
“coercion” does not suffice to settle this case.
Although children are not coerced to pledge their allegiance, they
are legally coerced to attend school. Cf., e.g.,
Schempp, supra; Engel v.
Vitale, 370
U. S. 421 (1962). Because what is at issue is a state action,
the question becomes whether the Pledge policy implicates a
religious liberty right protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.

															II

															   I accept that the Free Exercise
Clause, which clearly protects an individual right, applies against
the States through the Fourteenth Amendment. See Zelman,
536 U. S., at 679, and n. 4 (Thomas, J., concurring). But the
Establishment Clause is another matter. The text and history of the
Establishment Clause strongly suggest that it is a federalism
provision intended to prevent Congress from interfering with state
establishments. Thus, unlike the Free Exercise Clause, which does
protect an individual right, it makes little sense to incorporate
the Establishment Clause. In any case, I do not believe that the
Pledge policy infringes any religious liberty right that would
arise from incorporation of the Clause. Because the Pledge policy
also does not infringe any free-exercise rights, I conclude that it
is constitutional.

															A

															   The Establishment Clause provides that
“Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion.” Amdt. 1. As a textual matter, this Clause probably
prohibits Congress from establishing a national religion. But see
P. Hamburger, Separation of Church and State 106, n. 40 (2002)
(citing sources). Perhaps more importantly, the Clause made clear
that Congress could not interfere with state establishments,
notwithstanding any argument that could be made based on
Congress’ power under the Necessary and Proper Clause. See A.
Amar, The Bill of Rights 36–39 (1998).

															   Nothing in the text of the Clause
suggests that it reaches any further. The Establishment Clause does
not purport to protect individual rights. By contrast, the Free
Exercise Clause plainly protects individuals against congressional
interference with the right to exercise their religion, and the
remaining Clauses within the First Amendment expressly disable
Congress from “abridging [particular]
freedom[s].” (Emphasis added.) This textual analysis
is consistent with the prevailing view that the Constitution left
religion to the States. See, e.g., 2 J. Story,
Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States §1873
(5th ed. 1891); see also Amar, The Bill of Rights, at 32–42;
id., at 246–257. History also supports this
understanding: At the founding, at least six States had established
religions, see McConnell, The Origins and Historical Understanding
of Free Exercise of Religion, 103 Harv. L. Rev. 1409, 1437
(1990). Nor has this federalism point escaped the notice of Members
of this Court. See, e.g., Zelman, supra,
at 677–680 (Thomas, J., concurring); Lee,
supra, at 641 (Scalia, J., dissenting).

															   Quite simply, the Establishment Clause is best
understood as a federalism provision—it protects state
establishments from federal interference but does not protect any
individual right. These two features independently make
incorporation of the Clause difficult to understand. The best
argument in favor of incorporation would be that, by disabling
Congress from establishing a national religion, the Clause
protected an individual right, enforceable against the Federal
Government, to be free from coercive federal establishments.
Incorporation of this individual right, the argument goes, makes
sense. I have alluded to this possibility before. See
Zelman, supra, at 679 (Thomas, J., concurring)
(“States may pass laws that include or touch on religious
matters so long as these laws do not impede free exercise rights
or any other individual liberty interest” (emphasis
added)).

															   But even assuming that the Establishment
Clause precludes the Federal Government from establishing a
national religion, it does not follow that the Clause created or
protects any individual right. For the reasons discussed above, it
is more likely that States and only States were the direct
beneficiaries. See also Lee, supra, at 641
(Scalia, J., dissenting). Moreover, incorporation of this putative
individual right leads to a peculiar outcome: It would prohibit
precisely what the Establishment Clause was intended to
protect—state establishments of religion. See
Schempp, 374 U. S., at 310 (Stewart, J., dissenting)
(noting that “the Fourteenth Amendment has somehow absorbed
the Establishment Clause, although it is not without irony that a
constitutional provision evidently designed to leave the States
free to go their own way should now have become a restriction upon
their autonomy”). Nevertheless, the potential right against
federal establishments is the only candidate for incorporation.

															   I would welcome the opportunity to consider
more fully the difficult questions whether and how the
Establishment Clause applies against the States. One observation
suffices for now: As strange as it sounds, an incorporated
Establishment Clause prohibits exactly what the Establishment
Clause protected—state practices that pertain to “an
establishment of religion.” At the very least, the burden of
persuasion rests with anyone who claims that the term took on a
different meaning upon incorporation. We must therefore determine
whether the Pledge policy pertains to an “establishment of
religion.”

															B

															   The traditional
“establishments of religion” to which the Establishment
Clause is addressed necessarily involve actual legal coercion:

															“The coercion that was a hallmark of historical
establishments of religion was coercion of religious orthodoxy and
of financial support by force of law and threat of
penalty. Typically, attendance at the state church was
required; only clergy of the official church could lawfully perform
sacraments; and dissenters, if tolerated, faced an array of civil
disabilities. L. Levy, The Establishment Clause 4 (1986). Thus, for
example, in the Colony of Virginia, where the Church of England had
been established, ministers were required by law to conform to the
doctrine and rites of the Church of England; and all persons were
required to attend church and observe the Sabbath, were tithed for
the public support of Anglican ministers, and were taxed for the
costs of building and repairing churches. Id., at
3–4.” Lee, 505 U. S., at 640–641
(Scalia, J., dissenting).

															Even if “establishment” had a broader
definition, one that included support for religion generally
through taxation, the element of legal coercion (by the State)
would still be present. See id., at 641.

															   It is also conceivable that a government could
“establish” a religion by imbuing it with governmental
authority, see, e.g., Larkin v.
Grendel’s Den, Inc., 459 U. S. 116 (1982), or
by “delegat[ing] its civic authority to a group chosen
according to a religious criterion,” Board of Ed. of
Kiryas Joel Village School Dist. v. Grumet, 512 U. S. 687, 698
(1994); County of Allegheny, 492 U. S., at 590–591.
A religious organization that carries some measure of the authority
of the State begins to look like a traditional “religious
establishment,” at least when that authority can be used
coercively. See also Zorach v. Clauson, 343 U. S. 306, 319 (1952) (Black, J.,
dissenting) (explaining that the Establishment Clause
“insure[s] that no one powerful sect or combination of sects
could use political or governmental power to punish
dissenters whom they could not convert to their faith”
(emphasis added)).

															   It is difficult to see how government
practices that have nothing to do with creating or maintaining the
sort of coercive state establishment described above implicate the
possible liberty interest of being free from coercive state
establishments. In addressing the constitutionality of voluntary
school prayer, Justice Stewart made essentially this point,
emphasizing that “we deal here not with the establishment of
a state church, … but with whether school children who want
to begin their day by joining in prayer must be prohibited from
doing so.” Engel, 370 U. S., at 445 (dissenting
opinion).[Footnote 4]

															   To be sure, I find much to commend the view
that the Establishment Clause “bar[s] governmental
preferences for particular religious faiths.”
Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of Univ. of
Va., 515 U. S. 819, 856 (1995) (Thomas, J.,
concurring). But the position I suggest today is consistent with
this. Legal compulsion is an inherent component of
“preferences” in this context. James Madison’s
Memorial and Remonstrance Against Religious Assessments (reprinted
in Everson v. Board of Ed. of Ewing, 330 U. S. 1, 63–72
(1947) (appendix to dissent of Rutledge, J.)), which extolled the
no-preference argument, concerned coercive taxation to support an
established religion, much as its title implies.[Footnote 5] And, although “more extreme
notions of the separation of church and state [might] be
attribut[able] to Madison, many of them clearly stem from
‘arguments reflecting the concepts of natural law, natural
rights, and the social contract between government and a civil
society,’ [R. Cord, Separation of Church and State:
Historical Fact and Current Fiction 22 (1982)], rather than the
principle of nonestablishment in the Constitution.”
Rosenberger, supra, at 856 (Thomas, J.,
concurring). See also Hamburger, Separation of Church and State, at
105 (noting that Madison’s proposed language for what became
the Establishment Clause did not reflect his more extreme
views).

															C

															   Through the Pledge policy, the
State has not created or maintained any religious establishment,
and neither has it granted government authority to an existing
religion. The Pledge policy does not expose anyone to the legal
coercion associated with an established religion. Further, no other
free-exercise rights are at issue. It follows that religious
liberty rights are not in question and that the Pledge policy fully
comports with the Constitution.
Footnote 1

															 This is by no means a novel observation. See,
e.g., Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of
Univ. of Va., 515 U. S. 819, 861 (1995) (Thomas, J.,
concurring) (noting that “our Establishment Clause
jurisprudence is in hopeless disarray”); Lamb’s
Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free School Dist.,
508 U. S. 384,
398–401 (1993) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment). We have
selectively invoked particular tests, such as the
“Lemon test,” Lemon v.
Kurtzman, 403 U. S. 602 (1971),
with predictable outcomes. See, e.g., Lamb’s
Chapel, supra, at 398–401 (Scalia, J.,
concurring in judgment). Our jurisprudential confusion has led to
results that can only be described as silly. In County of
Allegheny v. American Civil Liberties Union, Greater
Pittsburgh Chapter, 492 U. S. 573 (1989), for example, the
Court distinguished between a crèche on the one hand and an
18-foot Chanukah menorah placed near a 45-foot Christmas tree on
the other. The Court held that the first display violated the
Establishment Clause but that the second did not.
Footnote 2

															 Of course, as Lee and subsequent
cases make clear, “ ‘[l]aw reaches past
formalism.’ ” Santa Fe Independent School
Dist. v. Doe, 530 U. S. 290, 311
(2000) (quoting Lee v. Weisman, 505
U. S. 577, 595 (1992)).
Footnote 3

															 Surely the “coercion” to pledge
(where failure to do so is immediately obvious to one’s
peers) is far greater than the “coercion” resulting
from a student-initiated and student-led prayer at a high school
football game. See Santa Fe Independent School Dist.,
supra.
Footnote 4
 It may well be the case that anything
that would violate the incorporated Establishment Clause would
actually violate the Free Exercise Clause, further calling into
doubt the utility of incorporating the Establishment Clause. See,
e.g., A. Amar, The Bill of Rights 253–254 (1998).
Lee v. Weisman, 505
U. S. 577 (1992), could be thought of this way to the extent
that anyone might have been “coerced” into a religious
exercise. Cf. Zorach v. Clauson, 343 U. S. 306, 311 (1952) (rejecting
as “obtuse reasoning” a free-exercise claim where
“[n]o one is forced to go to the religious classroom and no
religious exercise or instruction is brought to the classrooms of
the public schools”); ibid. (rejecting
coercion-based Establishment Clause claim absent evidence that
“teachers were using their office to persuade or
force students to take religious instruction” (emphasis
added)).
Footnote 5

															 Again, coercive government preferences might
also implicate the Free Exercise Clause and are perhaps better
analyzed in that framework.

													
