::SCDB_caseID:: 2004-024
::decision_cite:: 543 U.S. 551 (2005)
::decision_name::  Roper v. Simmons
::decision_year:: 2005
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 


SCALIA, J., DISSENTING
ROPER V. SIMMONS
543 U. S. ____ (2005)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 03-633

															DONALD P. ROPER, SUPERINTENDENT, POTOSI
CORRECTIONAL CENTER, PETITIONER v. CHRISTOPHER SIMMONS

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
missouri

															[March 1, 2005]

															   Justice Scalia, with whom The
Chief Justice and Justice Thomas join, dissenting.

															   In urging approval of a
constitution that gave life-tenured judges the power to nullify
laws enacted by the people’s representatives, Alexander
Hamilton assured the citizens of New York that there was little
risk in this, since “[t]he judiciary … ha[s] neither
FORCE nor WILL but merely judgment.” The Federalist No. 78,
p. 465 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961). But Hamilton had in mind a
traditional judiciary, “bound down by strict rules and
precedents which serve to define and point out their duty in every
particular case that comes before them.” Id., at
471. Bound down, indeed. What a mockery today’s opinion makes
of Hamilton’s expectation, announcing the Court’s
conclusion that the meaning of our Constitution has changed over
the past 15 years—not, mind you, that this Court’s
decision 15 years ago was wrong, but that the Constitution
has changed. The Court reaches this implausible
result by purporting to advert, not to the original meaning of the
Eighth Amendment, but to “the evolving standards of
decency,” ante, at 6 (internal quotation marks
omitted), of our national society. It then finds, on the flimsiest
of grounds, that a national consensus which could not be perceived
in our people’s laws barely 15 years ago now solidly exists.
Worse still, the Court says in so many words that what our
people’s laws say about the issue does not, in the last
analysis, matter: “[I]n the end our own judgment will be
brought to bear on the question of the acceptability of the death
penalty under the Eighth Amendment.” Ante, at 9
(internal quotation marks omitted). The Court thus proclaims itself
sole arbiter of our Nation’s moral standards—and in the
course of discharging that awesome responsibility purports to take
guidance from the views of foreign courts and legislatures. Because
I do not believe that the meaning of our Eighth Amendment, any more
than the meaning of other provisions of our Constitution, should be
determined by the subjective views of five Members of this Court
and like-minded foreigners, I dissent.

															I

															   In determining that capital
punishment of offenders who committed murder before age 18 is
“cruel and unusual” under the Eighth Amendment, the
Court first considers, in accordance with our modern (though in my
view mistaken) jurisprudence, whether there is a “national
consensus,” ibid. (internal quotation marks
omitted), that laws allowing such executions contravene our modern
“standards of decency,”[Footnote 1] Trop v. Dulles, 356 U. S. 86, 101 (1958).
We have held that this determination should be based on
“objective indicia that reflect the public attitude toward a
given sanction”—namely, “statutes passed by
society’s elected representatives.” Stanford
v. Kentucky, 492
U. S. 361, 370 (1989) (internal quotation marks omitted). As in
Atkins v. Virginia, 536 U. S. 304, 312
(2002), the Court dutifully recites this test and claims
halfheartedly that a national consensus has emerged since our
decision in Stanford, because 18 States—or 47% of
States that permit capital punishment—now have legislation
prohibiting the execution of offenders under 18, and because all of
four States have adopted such legislation since Stanford.
See ante, at 11.

															   Words have no meaning if the
views of less than 50% of death penalty States can constitute a
national consensus. See Atkins, supra, at
342–345 (Scalia, J., dissenting). Our previous cases have
required overwhelming opposition to a challenged practice,
generally over a long period of time. In Coker v.
Georgia, 433 U. S. 584, 595–596 (1977), a
plurality concluded the Eighth Amendment prohibited capital
punishment for rape of an adult woman where only one jurisdiction
authorized such punishment. The plurality also observed that
“[a]t no time in the last 50 years ha[d] a majority of States
authorized death as a punishment for rape.” Id., at
593. In Ford v. Wainwright, 477 U. S. 399, 408 (1986), we held
execution of the insane unconstitutional, tracing the roots of this
prohibition to the common law and noting that “no State in
the union permits the execution of the insane.” In
Enmund v. Florida, 458 U. S. 782, 792 (1982), we
invalidated capital punishment imposed for participation in a
robbery in which an accomplice committed murder, because 78% of all
death penalty States prohibited this punishment. Even there we
expressed some hesitation, because the legislative judgment was
“neither ‘wholly unanimous among state
legislatures,’ … nor as compelling as the legislative
judgments considered in Coker.” Id., at
793. By contrast, agreement among 42% of death penalty States in
Stanford, which the Court appears to believe was correctly
decided at the time, ante, at 20, was insufficient to show
a national consensus. See Stanford, supra, at
372.

															   In an attempt to keep afloat its implausible
assertion of national consensus, the Court throws overboard a
proposition well established in our Eighth Amendment jurisprudence.
“It should be observed,” the Court says, “that
the Stanford Court should have considered those States
that had abandoned the death penalty altogether as part of the
consensus against the juvenile death penalty …; a
State’s decision to bar the death penalty altogether of
necessity demonstrates a judgment that the death penalty is
inappropriate for all offenders, including juveniles.”
Ante, at 20. The insinuation that the Court’s new
method of counting contradicts only “the Stanford
Court” is misleading. None of our cases dealing with
an alleged constitutional limitation upon the death penalty has
counted, as States supporting a consensus in favor of that
limitation, States that have eliminated the death penalty entirely.
See Ford, supra, at 408, n. 2;
Enmund, supra, at 789; Coker,
supra, at 594. And with good reason. Consulting States
that bar the death penalty concerning the necessity of making an
exception to the penalty for offenders under 18 is rather like
including old-order Amishmen in a consumer-preference poll on the
electric car. Of course they don’t like it, but that
sheds no light whatever on the point at issue. That 12 States favor
no executions says something about consensus against the
death penalty, but nothing—absolutely nothing—about
consensus that offenders under 18 deserve special immunity from
such a penalty. In repealing the death penalty, those 12 States
considered none of the factors that the Court puts forth
as determinative of the issue before us today—lower
culpability of the young, inherent recklessness, lack of capacity
for considered judgment, etc. What might be relevant, perhaps, is
how many of those States permit 16- and 17-year-old offenders to be
treated as adults with respect to noncapital offenses. (They all
do;[Footnote 2] indeed, some
even require that juveniles as young as 14 be tried as
adults if they are charged with murder.[Footnote 3]) The attempt by the Court to turn its
remarkable minority consensus into a faux majority by counting
Amishmen is an act of nomological desperation.

															   Recognizing that its national-consensus
argument was weak compared with our earlier cases, the
Atkins Court found additional support in the fact that 16
States had prohibited execution of mentally retarded individuals
since Penry v. Lynaugh, 492 U. S. 302 (1989).
Atkins, supra, at 314–316. Indeed, the
Atkins Court distinguished Stanford on that very
ground, explaining that “[a]lthough we decided
Stanford on the same day as Penry, apparently
only two state legislatures have raised the threshold age
for imposition of the death penalty.” 536 U. S., at 315,
n. 18 (emphasis added). Now, the Court says a legislative
change in four States is “significant” enough to
trigger a constitutional prohibition.[Footnote 4] Ante, at 11. It is amazing to think
that this subtle shift in numbers can take the issue entirely off
the table for legislative debate.

															   I also doubt whether many of the legislators
who voted to change the laws in those four States would have done
so if they had known their decision would (by the pronouncement of
this Court) be rendered irreversible. After all, legislative
support for capital punishment, in any form, has surged and ebbed
throughout our Nation’s history. As Justice O’Connor
has explained:

															   “The history of the death
penalty instructs that there is danger in inferring a settled
societal consensus from statistics like those relied on in this
case. In 1846, Michigan became the first State to abolish the death
penalty … . In succeeding decades, other American
States continued the trend towards abolition … .
Later, and particularly after World War II, there ensued a steady
and dramatic decline in executions … . In the
1950’s and 1960’s, more States abolished or radically
restricted capital punishment, and executions ceased completely for
several years beginning in 1968… .

															   “In 1972, when this Court heard
arguments on the constitutionality of the death penalty, such
statistics might have suggested that the practice had become a
relic, implicitly rejected by a new societal
consensus… . We now know that any inference of a
societal consensus rejecting the death penalty would have been
mistaken. But had this Court then declared the existence of such a
consensus, and outlawed capital punishment, legislatures would very
likely not have been able to revive it. The mistaken premise of the
decision would have been frozen into constitutional law, making it
difficult to refute and even more difficult to reject.”
Thompson v. Oklahoma, 487 U. S. 815,
854–855 (1988) (opinion concurring in judgment).

															   Relying on such narrow margins is
especially inappropriate in light of the fact that a number of
legislatures and voters have expressly affirmed their support for
capital punishment of 16- and 17-year-old offenders since
Stanford. Though the Court is correct that no State has
lowered its death penalty age, both the Missouri and Virginia
Legislatures—which, at the time of Stanford, had no
minimum age requirement—expressly established 16 as the
minimum. Mo. Rev. Stat. §565.020.2 (2000); Va. Code Ann.
§18.2–10(a) (Lexis 2004). The people of Arizona[Footnote 5] and Florida[Footnote 6] have done the same by ballot
initiative. Thus, even States that have not executed an under-18
offender in recent years unquestionably favor the possibility of
capital punishment in some circumstances.

															   The Court’s reliance on the infrequency
of executions, for under-18 murderers, ante, at
10–11, 13, credits an argument that this Court considered and
explicitly rejected in Stanford. That infrequency is
explained, we accurately said, both by “the undisputed fact
that a far smaller percentage of capital crimes are committed by
persons under 18 than over 18,” 492 U. S., at 374, and by the
fact that juries are required at sentencing to consider the
offender’s youth as a mitigating factor, see Eddings
v. Oklahoma, 455 U. S. 104,
115–116 (1982). Thus, “it is not only possible, but
overwhelmingly probable, that the very considerations which induce
[respondent] and [his] supporters to believe that death should
never be imposed on offenders under 18 cause prosecutors
and juries to believe that it should rarely be
imposed.” Stanford, supra, at 374.

															   It is, furthermore, unclear that executions of
the relevant age group have decreased since we decided
Stanford. Between 1990 and 2003, 123 of 3,599 death
sentences, or 3.4%, were given to individuals who committed crimes
before reaching age 18. V. Streib, The Juvenile Death Penalty
Today: Death Sentences and Executions for Juvenile Crimes, January
1, 1973–September 30, 2004, No. 75, p. 9 (Table 3) (last
updated Oct. 5, 2004), http://
www.law.onu.edu/faculty/streib/documentsJuvDeathSept302004.pdf (all
Internet materials as visited Jan. 12, 2005, and available in the
Clerk of Court’s case file) (hereinafter Juvenile Death
Penalty Today). By contrast, only 2.1% of those sentenced to death
between 1982 and 1988 committed the crimes when they were under 18.
See Stanford, supra, at 373 (citing V. Streib,
Imposition of Death Sentences for Juvenile Offenses, January 1,
1982, Through April 1, 1989, p. 2 (paper for
Cleveland-Marshall College of Law, April 5, 1989)). As for actual
executions of under-18 offenders, they constituted 2.4% of the
total executions since 1973. Juvenile Death Penalty Today 4. In
Stanford, we noted that only 2% of the executions between
1642 and 1986 were of under-18 offenders and found that that lower
number did not demonstrate a national consensus against the
penalty. 492 U. S., at 373–374 (citing V. Streib, Death
Penalty for Juveniles 55, 57 (1987)). Thus, the numbers of under-18
offenders subjected to the death penalty, though low compared with
adults, have either held steady or slightly increased since
Stanford. These statistics in no way support the action
the Court takes today.

															II

															   Of course, the real force driving
today’s decision is not the actions of four state
legislatures, but the Court’s
“ ‘ “own
judgment” ’ ” that murderers younger
than 18 can never be as morally culpable as older counterparts.
Ante, at 9 (quoting Atkins, 536 U. S., at 312 (in
turn quoting Coker, 433 U. S., at 597 (plurality
opinion))). The Court claims that this usurpation of the role of
moral arbiter is simply a “retur[n] to the rul[e] established
in decisions predating Stanford,” ante, at
9. That supposed rule—which is reflected solely in dicta and
never once in a holding that purports to supplant the
consensus of the American people with the Justices’
views[Footnote 7]—was
repudiated in Stanford for the very good reason that it
has no foundation in law or logic. If the Eighth Amendment set
forth an ordinary rule of law, it would indeed be the role of this
Court to say what the law is. But the Court having pronounced that
the Eighth Amendment is an ever-changing reflection of “the
evolving standards of decency” of our society, it makes no
sense for the Justices then to prescribe those standards
rather than discern them from the practices of our people. On the
evolving-standards hypothesis, the only legitimate function of this
Court is to identify a moral consensus of the American people. By
what conceivable warrant can nine lawyers presume to be the
authoritative conscience of the Nation? [Footnote 8]
   The reason for
insistence on legislative primacy is obvious and fundamental:
“ ‘[I]n a democratic society legislatures, not
courts, are constituted to respond to the will and consequently the
moral values of the people.’ ” Gregg v.
Georgia, 428 U. S. 153,
175–176 (1976) (joint opinion of Stewart, Powell, and
Stevens, JJ.) (quoting Furman v. Georgia,
408 U. S. 238,
383 (1972) (Burger, C. J., dissenting)). For a similar reason
we have, in our determination of society’s moral standards,
consulted the practices of sentencing juries: Juries
“ ‘maintain a link between contemporary community
values and the penal system’ ” that this Court
cannot claim for itself. Gregg, supra, at 181
(quoting Witherspoon v. Illinois, 391 U. S. 510, 519,
n. 15 (1968)).
   Today’s opinion provides
a perfect example of why judges are ill equipped to make the type
of legislative judgments the Court insists on making here. To
support its opinion that States should be prohibited from imposing
the death penalty on anyone who committed murder before age 18, the
Court looks to scientific and sociological studies, picking and
choosing those that support its position. It never explains why
those particular studies are methodologically sound; none was ever
entered into evidence or tested in an adversarial proceeding. As
The Chief Justice has explained:
“[M]ethodological and other
errors can affect the reliability and validity of estimates about
the opinions and attitudes of a population derived from various
sampling techniques. Everything from variations in the survey
methodology, such as the choice of the target population, the
sampling design used, the questions asked, and the statistical
analyses used to interpret the data can skew the results.”
Atkins, supra, at 326–327 (dissenting
opinion) (citing R. Groves, Survey Errors and Survey Costs (1989);
1 C. Turner & E. Martin, Surveying Subjective Phenomena
(1984)).
In other words, all the Court has
done today, to borrow from another context, is to look over the
heads of the crowd and pick out its friends. Cf. Conroy v.
Aniskoff, 507 U. S. 511, 519
(1993) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment).
   We need not look far to find
studies contradicting the Court’s conclusions. As petitioner
points out, the American Psychological Association (APA), which
claims in this case that scientific evidence shows persons under 18
lack the ability to take moral responsibility for their decisions,
has previously taken precisely the opposite position before this
very Court. In its brief in Hodgson v. Minnesota,
497 U. S. 417
(1990), the APA found a “rich body of research” showing
that juveniles are mature enough to decide whether to obtain an
abortion without parental involvement. Brief for APA as Amicus
Curiae, O. T. 1989, No. 88–805 etc., p. 18.
The APA brief, citing psychology treatises and studies too numerous
to list here, asserted: “[B]y middle adolescence (age
14–15) young people develop abilities similar to adults in
reasoning about moral dilemmas, understanding social rules and
laws, [and] reasoning about interpersonal relationships and
interpersonal problems.” Id., at 19–20
(citations omitted). Given the nuances of scientific methodology
and conflicting views, courts—which can only consider the
limited evidence on the record before them—are ill equipped
to determine which view of science is the right one. Legislatures
“are better qualified to weigh and ‘evaluate the
results of statistical studies in terms of their own local
conditions and with a flexibility of approach that is not available
to the courts.’ ” McCleskey v.
Kemp, 481
U. S. 279, 319 (1987) (quoting Gregg, supra, at
186).
   Even putting aside questions
of methodology, the studies cited by the Court offer scant support
for a categorical prohibition of the death penalty for murderers
under 18. At most, these studies conclude that, on
average, or in most cases, persons under 18 are
unable to take moral responsibility for their actions. Not one of
the cited studies opines that all individuals under 18 are unable
to appreciate the nature of their crimes.
   Moreover, the cited studies
describe only adolescents who engage in risky or antisocial
behavior, as many young people do. Murder, however, is more than
just risky or antisocial behavior. It is entirely consistent to
believe that young people often act impetuously and lack judgment,
but, at the same time, to believe that those who commit
premeditated murder are—at least sometimes—just as
culpable as adults. Christopher Simmons, who was only seven months
shy of his 18th birthday when he murdered Shirley Crook, described
to his friends beforehand—“[i]n chilling,
callous terms,” as the Court puts it, ante, at
1—the murder he planned to commit. He then broke into the
home of an innocent woman, bound her with duct tape and electrical
wire, and threw her off a bridge alive and conscious.
Ante, at 2. In their amici brief, the States of
Alabama, Delaware, Oklahoma, Texas, Utah, and Virginia offer
additional examples of murders committed by individuals under 18
that involve truly monstrous acts. In Alabama, two 17-year-olds,
one 16-year-old, and one 19-year-old picked up a female hitchhiker,
threw bottles at her, and kicked and stomped her for approximately
30 minutes until she died. They then sexually assaulted her
lifeless body and, when they were finished, threw her body off a
cliff. They later returned to the crime scene to mutilate her
corpse. See Brief for Alabama et al. as Amici Curiae
9–10; see also Loggins v. State, 771
So. 2d 1070, 1074–1075 (Ala. Crim. App. 1999);
Duncan v. State, 827 So. 2d 838,
840–841 (Ala. Crim. App. 1999). Other examples in the brief
are equally shocking. Though these cases are assuredly the
exception rather than the rule, the studies the Court cites in no
way justify a constitutional imperative that prevents legislatures
and juries from treating exceptional cases in an exceptional
way—by determining that some murders are not just the acts of
happy-go-lucky teenagers, but heinous crimes deserving of
death.
   That “almost every State
prohibits those under 18 years of age from voting, serving on
juries, or marrying without parental consent,” ante,
at 15, is patently irrelevant—and is yet another resurrection
of an argument that this Court gave a decent burial in
Stanford. (What kind of Equal Justice under Law is it
that—without so much as a “Sorry about
that”—gives as the basis for sparing one person from
execution arguments explicitly rejected in refusing to
spare another?) As we explained in Stanford, 492 U. S., at
374, it is “absurd to think that one must be mature enough to
drive carefully, to drink responsibly, or to vote intelligently, in
order to be mature enough to understand that murdering another
human being is profoundly wrong, and to conform one’s conduct
to that most minimal of all civilized standards.” Serving on
a jury or entering into marriage also involve decisions far more
sophisticated than the simple decision not to take another’s
life.
   Moreover, the age statutes the
Court lists “set the appropriate ages for the operation of a
system that makes its determinations in gross, and that does not
conduct individualized maturity tests.” Ibid. The
criminal justice system, by contrast, provides for individualized
consideration of each defendant. In capital cases, this Court
requires the sentencer to make an individualized determination,
which includes weighing aggravating factors and mitigating factors,
such as youth. See Eddings, 455 U. S., at 115–117.
In other contexts where individualized consideration is provided,
we have recognized that at least some minors will be mature enough
to make difficult decisions that involve moral considerations. For
instance, we have struck down abortion statutes that do not allow
minors deemed mature by courts to bypass parental notification
provisions. See, e.g., Bellotti v.
Baird, 443
U. S. 622, 643–644 (1979) (opinion of Powell, J.);
Planned Parenthood of Central Mo. v. Danforth,
428 U. S. 52,
74–75 (1976). It is hard to see why this context should be
any different. Whether to obtain an abortion is surely a much more
complex decision for a young person than whether to kill an
innocent person in cold blood.
   The Court concludes, however,
ante, at 18, that juries cannot be trusted with the
delicate task of weighing a defendant’s youth along with the
other mitigating and aggravating factors of his crime. This
startling conclusion undermines the very foundations of our capital
sentencing system, which entrusts juries with “mak[ing] the
difficult and uniquely human judgments that defy codification and
that ‘buil[d] discretion, equity, and flexibility into a
legal system.’ ” McCleskey,
supra, at 311 (quoting H. Kalven & H. Zeisel, The
American Jury 498 (1966)). The Court says, ante, at 18,
that juries will be unable to appreciate the significance of a
defendant’s youth when faced with details of a brutal crime.
This assertion is based on no evidence; to the contrary, the Court
itself acknowledges that the execution of under-18 offenders is
“infrequent” even in the States “without a formal
prohibition on executing juveniles,” ante, at 10,
suggesting that juries take seriously their responsibility to weigh
youth as a mitigating factor.
   Nor does the Court suggest a
stopping point for its reasoning. If juries cannot make appropriate
determinations in cases involving murderers under 18, in what other
kinds of cases will the Court find jurors deficient? We have
already held that no jury may consider whether a mentally deficient
defendant can receive the death penalty, irrespective of his crime.
See Atkins, 536 U. S., at 321. Why not take other
mitigating factors, such as considerations of childhood abuse or
poverty, away from juries as well? Surely jurors
“overpower[ed]” by “the brutality or cold-blooded
nature” of a crime, ante, at 19, could not
adequately weigh these mitigating factors either.
   The Court’s contention
that the goals of retribution and deterrence are not served by
executing murderers under 18 is also transparently false. The
argument that “[r]etribution is not proportional if the
law’s most severe penalty is imposed on one whose culpability
or blameworthiness is diminished,” ante, at 17, is
simply an extension of the earlier, false generalization that youth
always defeats culpability. The Court claims that
“juveniles will be less susceptible to deterrence,”
ante, at 18, because “ ‘[t]he likelihood
that the teenage offender has made the kind of cost-benefit
analysis that attaches any weight to the possibility of execution
is so remote as to be virtually nonexistent,’ ”
ibid. (quoting Thompson, 487 U. S., at 837). The
Court unsurprisingly finds no support for this astounding
proposition, save its own case law. The facts of this very case
show the proposition to be false. Before committing the crime,
Simmons encouraged his friends to join him by assuring them that
they could “get away with it” because they were minors.
State ex rel. Simmons v. Roper, 112 S. W. 3d
397, 419 (Mo. 2003) (Price, J., dissenting). This fact may have
influenced the jury’s decision to impose capital punishment
despite Simmons’ age. Because the Court refuses to entertain
the possibility that its own unsubstantiated generalization about
juveniles could be wrong, it ignores this evidence
entirely.
III
   Though the views
of our own citizens are essentially irrelevant to the Court’s
decision today, the views of other countries and the so-called
international community take center stage.
   The Court begins
by noting that “Article 37 of the United Nations Convention
on the Rights of the Child, [1577 U. N. T. S. 3, 28
I. L. M. 1448, 1468–1470, entered into force Sept.
2, 1990], which every country in the world has ratified save
for the United States and Somalia, contains an express
prohibition on capital punishment for crimes committed by juveniles
under 18.” Ante, at 22 (emphasis added). The Court
also discusses the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights (ICCPR), December 19, 1966, 999 U. N. T. S.
175, ante, at 13, 22, which the Senate ratified only
subject to a reservation that reads:
“The United States reserves
the right, subject to its Constitutional restraints, to impose
capital punishment on any person (other than a pregnant woman) duly
convicted under existing or future laws permitting the imposition
of capital punishment, including such punishment for crime
committed by persons below eighteen years of age.” Senate
Committee on Foreign Relations, International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, S. Exec. Rep. No. 102–23,
(1992).
Unless the Court has added to its
arsenal the power to join and ratify treaties on behalf of the
United States, I cannot see how this evidence favors, rather than
refutes, its position. That the Senate and the
President—those actors our Constitution empowers to enter
into treaties, see Art. II, §2—have declined to join and
ratify treaties prohibiting execution of under-18 offenders can
only suggest that our country has either not reached a
national consensus on the question, or has reached a consensus
contrary to what the Court announces. That the reservation to the
ICCPR was made in 1992 does not suggest otherwise, since the
reservation still remains in place today. It is also worth noting
that, in addition to barring the execution of under-18 offenders,
the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child prohibits
punishing them with life in prison without the possibility of
release. If we are truly going to get in line with the
international community, then the Court’s reassurance that
the death penalty is really not needed, since “the punishment
of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole is itself a
severe sanction,” ante, at 18, gives little
comfort.
   It is interesting that whereas
the Court is not content to accept what the States of our Federal
Union say, but insists on inquiring into what they
do (specifically, whether they in fact apply the
juvenile death penalty that their laws allow), the Court is quite
willing to believe that every foreign nation—of whatever
tyrannical political makeup and with however subservient or
incompetent a court system—in fact adheres to a rule
of no death penalty for offenders under 18. Nor does the Court
inquire into how many of the countries that have the death penalty,
but have forsworn (on paper at least) imposing that penalty on
offenders under 18, have what no State of this country can
constitutionally have: a mandatory death penalty for
certain crimes, with no possibility of mitigation by the sentencing
authority, for youth or any other reason. I suspect it is most of
them. See, e.g., R. Simon & D. Blaskovich, A
Comparative Analysis of Capital Punishment: Statutes, Policies,
Frequencies, and Public Attitudes the World Over 25, 26, 29 (2002).
To forbid the death penalty for juveniles under such a system may
be a good idea, but it says nothing about our system, in which the
sentencing authority, typically a jury, always can, and almost
always does, withhold the death penalty from an under-18 offender
except, after considering all the circumstances, in the rare cases
where it is warranted. The foreign authorities, in other words, do
not even speak to the issue before us here.
   More fundamentally, however,
the basic premise of the Court’s argument—that American
law should conform to the laws of the rest of the world—ought
to be rejected out of hand. In fact the Court itself does not
believe it. In many significant respects the laws of most other
countries differ from our law—including not only such
explicit provisions of our Constitution as the right to jury trial
and grand jury indictment, but even many interpretations of the
Constitution prescribed by this Court itself. The Court-pronounced
exclusionary rule, for example, is distinctively American. When we
adopted that rule in Mapp v. Ohio, 367 U. S. 643, 655
(1961), it was “unique to American Jurisprudence.”
Bivens v. Six Unknown Fed. Narcotics Agents,
403 U. S. 388,
415 (1971) (Burger, C. J., dissenting). Since then a
categorical exclusionary rule has been “universally
rejected” by other countries, including those with rules
prohibiting illegal searches and police misconduct, despite the
fact that none of these countries “appears to have any
alternative form of discipline for police that is effective in
preventing search violations.” Bradley, Mapp Goes
Abroad, 52 Case W. Res. L. Rev. 375, 399–400 (2001).
England, for example, rarely excludes evidence found during an
illegal search or seizure and has only recently begun excluding
evidence from illegally obtained confessions. See C. Slobogin,
Criminal Procedure: Regulation of Police Investigation 550 (3d ed.
2002). Canada rarely excludes evidence and will only do so if
admission will “bring the administration of justice into
disrepute.” Id., at 550–551 (internal
quotation marks omitted). The European Court of Human Rights has
held that introduction of illegally seized evidence does not
violate the “fair trial” requirement in Article 6,
§1, of the European Convention on Human Rights. See Slobogin,
supra, at 551; Bradley, supra, at
377–378.
   The Court has been oblivious
to the views of other countries when deciding how to interpret our
Constitution’s requirement that “Congress shall make no
law respecting an establishment of religion… .”
Amdt. 1. Most other countries—including those committed to
religious neutrality—do not insist on the degree of
separation between church and state that this Court requires. For
example, whereas “we have recognized special Establishment
Clause dangers where the government makes direct money payments to
sectarian institutions,” Rosenberger v. Rector
and Visitors of Univ. of Va., 515 U. S. 819, 842
(1995) (citing cases), countries such as the Netherlands, Germany,
and Australia allow direct government funding of religious schools
on the ground that “the state can only be truly neutral
between secular and religious perspectives if it does not dominate
the provision of so key a service as education, and makes it
possible for people to exercise their right of religious expression
within the context of public funding.” S. Monsma & J.
Soper, The Challenge of Pluralism: Church and State in Five
Democracies 207 (1997); see also id., at 67, 103, 176.
England permits the teaching of religion in state schools.
Id., at 142. Even in France, which is considered
“America’s only rival in strictness of church-state
separation,” “[t]he practice of contracting for
educational services provided by Catholic schools is very
widespread.” C. Glenn, The Ambiguous Embrace: Government and
Faith-Based Schools and Social Agencies 110 (2000).
   And let us not forget the
Court’s abortion jurisprudence, which makes us one of only
six countries that allow abortion on demand until the point of
viability. See Larsen, Importing Constitutional Norms from a
“Wider Civilization”: Lawrence and the
Rehnquist Court’s Use of Foreign and International Law in
Domestic Constitutional Interpretation, 65 Ohio St. L. J.
1283, 1320 (2004); Center for Reproductive Rights, The
World’s Abortion Laws (June 2004),
http://www.reproductiverights.org/ pub_fac_abortion_laws.html.
Though the Government and amici in cases following
Roe v. Wade, 410 U. S. 113 (1973),
urged the Court to follow the international community’s lead,
these arguments fell on deaf ears. See McCrudden, A Part of the
Main? The Physician-Assisted Suicide Cases and Comparative Law
Methodology in the United States Supreme Court, in Law at the End
of Life: The Supreme Court and Assisted Suicide 125, 129–130
(C. Schneider ed. 2000).
   The Court’s special
reliance on the laws of the United Kingdom is perhaps the most
indefensible part of its opinion. It is of course true that we
share a common history with the United Kingdom, and that we often
consult English sources when asked to discern the meaning of a
constitutional text written against the backdrop of 18th-century
English law and legal thought. If we applied that approach today,
our task would be an easy one. As we explained in Harmelin
v. Michigan, 501 U. S. 957,
973–974 (1991), the “Cruell and Unusuall
Punishments” provision of the English Declaration of Rights
was originally meant to describe those punishments
“ ‘out of [the Judges’]
Power’ ”—that is, those punishments that
were not authorized by common law or statute, but that were
nonetheless administered by the Crown or the Crown’s judges.
Under that reasoning, the death penalty for under-18 offenders
would easily survive this challenge. The Court has, however—I
think wrongly—long rejected a purely originalist approach to
our Eighth Amendment, and that is certainly not the approach the
Court takes today. Instead, the Court undertakes the majestic task
of determining (and thereby prescribing) our
Nation’s current standards of decency. It is beyond
comprehension why we should look, for that purpose, to a country
that has developed, in the centuries since the Revolutionary
War—and with increasing speed since the United
Kingdom’s recent submission to the jurisprudence of European
courts dominated by continental jurists—a legal, political,
and social culture quite different from our own. If we took the
Court’s directive seriously, we would also consider relaxing
our double jeopardy prohibition, since the British Law Commission
recently published a report that would significantly extend the
rights of the prosecution to appeal cases where an acquittal was
the result of a judge’s ruling that was legally incorrect.
See Law Commission, Double Jeopardy and Prosecution Appeals, LAW
COM No. 267, Cm 5048, p. 6, ¶1.19 (Mar. 2001); J.
Spencer, The English System in European Criminal Procedures 142,
204, and n. 239 (M. Delmas-Marty & J. Spencer eds. 2002).
We would also curtail our right to jury trial in criminal cases
since, despite the jury system’s deep roots in our shared
common law, England now permits all but the most serious offenders
to be tried by magistrates without a jury. See D. Feldman, England
and Wales, in Criminal Procedure: A Worldwide Study 91,
114–115 (C. Bradley ed. 1999).
   The Court should either
profess its willingness to reconsider all these matters in light of
the views of foreigners, or else it should cease putting forth
foreigners’ views as part of the reasoned basis of
its decisions. To invoke alien law when it agrees with one’s
own thinking, and ignore it otherwise, is not reasoned
decisionmaking, but sophistry.[Footnote 9]
   The Court responds that
“[i]t does not lessen our fidelity to the Constitution or our
pride in its origins to acknowledge that the express affirmation of
certain fundamental rights by other nations and peoples simply
underscores the centrality of those same rights within our own
heritage of freedom.” Ante, at 24–25. To begin
with, I do not believe that approval by “other nations and
peoples” should buttress our commitment to American
principles any more than (what should logically follow) disapproval
by “other nations and peoples” should weaken that
commitment. More importantly, however, the Court’s statement
flatly misdescribes what is going on here. Foreign sources are
cited today, not to underscore our “fidelity”
to the Constitution, our “pride in its origins,” and
“our own [American] heritage.” To the contrary, they
are cited to set aside the centuries-old American
practice—a practice still engaged in by a large majority of
the relevant States—of letting a jury of 12 citizens decide
whether, in the particular case, youth should be the basis for
withholding the death penalty. What these foreign sources
“affirm,” rather than repudiate, is the Justices’
own notion of how the world ought to be, and their diktat that it
shall be so henceforth in America. The Court’s parting
attempt to downplay the significance of its extensive discussion of
foreign law is unconvincing. “Acknowledgment” of
foreign approval has no place in the legal opinion of this Court
unless it is part of the basis for the Court’s
judgment—which is surely what it parades as
today.
IV
   To add insult to
injury, the Court affirms the Missouri Supreme Court without even
admonishing that court for its flagrant disregard of our precedent
in Stanford. Until today, we have always held that
“it is this Court’s prerogative alone to overrule one
of its precedents.” State Oil Co. v. Khan,
522 U. S. 3, 20
(1997). That has been true even where “ ‘changes
in judicial doctrine’ ha[ve] significantly undermined”
our prior holding, United States v. Hatter,
532 U. S. 557,
567 (2001) (quoting Hatter v. United States, 64
F. 3d 647, 650 (CA Fed. 1995)), and even where our prior
holding “appears to rest on reasons rejected in some other
line of decisions,” Rodriguez de Quijas v.
Shearson/ American Express, Inc., 490 U. S. 477, 484
(1989). Today, however, the Court silently approves a state-court
decision that blatantly rejected controlling precedent.
   One must admit
that the Missouri Supreme Court’s action, and this
Court’s indulgent reaction, are, in a way, understandable. In
a system based upon constitutional and statutory text
democratically adopted, the concept of “law” ordinarily
signifies that particular words have a fixed meaning. Such law does
not change, and this Court’s pronouncement of it therefore
remains authoritative until (confessing our prior error) we
overrule. The Court has purported to make of the Eighth Amendment,
however, a mirror of the passing and changing sentiment of American
society regarding penology. The lower courts can look into that
mirror as well as we can; and what we saw 15 years ago bears no
necessary relationship to what they see today. Since they are not
looking at the same text, but at a different scene, why should our
earlier decision control their judgment?
   However sound philosophically,
this is no way to run a legal system. We must disregard the new
reality that, to the extent our Eighth Amendment decisions
constitute something more than a show of hands on the current
Justices’ current personal views about penology, they purport
to be nothing more than a snapshot of American public opinion at a
particular point in time (with the timeframes now shortened to a
mere 15 years). We must treat these decisions just as though they
represented real law, real prescriptions
democratically adopted by the American people, as conclusively
(rather than sequentially) construed by this Court. Allowing lower
courts to reinterpret the Eighth Amendment whenever they decide
enough time has passed for a new snapshot leaves this Court’s
decisions without any force—especially since the
“evolution” of our Eighth Amendment is no longer
determined by objective criteria. To allow lower courts to behave
as we do, “updating” the Eighth Amendment as needed,
destroys stability and makes our case law an unreliable basis for
the designing of laws by citizens and their representatives, and
for action by public officials. The result will be to crown
arbitrariness with chaos.
Footnote
1
 The Court ignores entirely
the threshold inquiry in determining whether a particular
punishment complies with the Eighth Amendment: whether it is one of
the “modes or acts of punishment that had been considered
cruel and unusual at the time that the Bill of Rights was
adopted.” Ford v. Wainwright, 477 U. S. 399, 405 (1986). As we have
noted in prior cases, the evidence is unusually clear that the
Eighth Amendment was not originally understood to prohibit capital
punishment for 16- and 17-year-old offenders. See Stanford
v. Kentucky, 492
U. S. 361, 368 (1989). At the time the Eighth Amendment was
adopted, the death penalty could theoretically be imposed for the
crime of a 7-year-old, though there was a rebuttable presumption of
incapacity to commit a capital (or other) felony until the age of
14. See ibid. (citing 4 W. Blackstone, Commentaries
*23–*24; 1 M. Hale, Pleas of the Crown 24–29
(1800)).
Footnote
2
 See Alaska Stat.
§47.12.030 (Lexis 2002); Haw. Rev. Stat. §571–22
(1999); Iowa Code §232.45 (2003); Me. Rev. Stat. Ann., Tit.
15, §3101(4) (West 2003); Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., ch. 119,
§74 (West 2003); Mich. Comp. Laws Ann. §764.27 (West
2000); Minn. Stat. §260B.125 (2002); N. D. Cent. Code
§27–20–34 (Lexis Supp. 2003); R. I. Gen. Laws
§14–1–7 (Lexis 2002); Vt. Stat. Ann., Tit. 33,
§5516 (Lexis 2001); W. Va. Code §49–5–10
(Lexis 2004); Wis. Stat. §938.18 (2003–2004); see also
National Center for Juvenile Justice, Trying and Sentencing
Juveniles as Adults: An Analysis of State Transfer and Blended
Sentencing Laws 1 (Oct. 2003). The District of Columbia is the only
jurisdiction without a death penalty that specifically exempts
under-18 offenders from its harshest sanction—life
imprisonment without parole. See D. C. Code
§22–2104 (West 2001).
Footnote
3
 See Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., ch.
119, §74 (West 2003); N. D. Cent. Code
§27–20–34 (Lexis Supp. 2003); W. Va. Code
§49–5–10 (Lexis 2004).
Footnote
4
 As the Court notes,
Washington State’s decision to prohibit executions of
offenders under 18 was made by a judicial, not legislative,
decision. State v. Furman, 122 Wash. 2d 440, 459,
858 P. 2d 1092, 1103 (1993), construed the State’s death
penalty statute—which did not set any age limit—to
apply only to persons over 18. The opinion found that construction
necessary to avoid what it considered constitutional difficulties,
and did not purport to reflect popular sentiment. It is irrelevant
to the question of changed national consensus.
Footnote
5
 In 1996, Arizona’s
Ballot Proposition 102 exposed under-18 murderers to the death
penalty by automatically transferring them out of juvenile courts.
The statute implementing the proposition required the county
attorney to “bring a criminal prosecution against a juvenile
in the same manner as an adult if the juvenile is fifteen, sixteen
or seventeen years of age and is accused of … first degree
murder.” Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13–501 (West
2001). The Arizona Supreme Court has added to this scheme a
constitutional requirement that there be an individualized
assessment of the juvenile’s maturity at the time of the
offense. See State v. Davolt, 207 Ariz. 191,
214–216, 84 P. 3d 456, 479–481 (2004).
Footnote
6
 Florida voters approved an
amendment to the State Constitution, which changed the wording from
“cruel or unusual” to “cruel
and unusual,” Fla. Const., Art. I, §17 (2003).
See Commentary to 1998 Amendment, 25B Fla. Stat. Ann., p. 180 (West
2004). This was a response to a Florida Supreme Court ruling that
“cruel or unusual” excluded the death penalty
for a defendant who committed murder when he was younger than 17.
See Brennan v. State, 754 So. 2d 1, 5 (Fla.
1999). By adopting the federal constitutional language, Florida
voters effectively adopted our decision in Stanford v.
Kentucky, 492
U. S. 361 (1989). See Weaver, Word May Allow Execution of
16-Year-Olds, Miami Herald, Nov. 7, 2002, p. 7B.
Footnote
7
 See, e.g.,
Enmund v. Florida, 458 U. S. 782, 801 (1982) (“[W]e
have no reason to disagree with th[e] judgment [of the state
legislatures] for purposes of construing and applying the Eighth
Amendment”); Coker v. Georgia, 433 U. S. 584, 597 (1977) (plurality
opinion) (“[T]he legislative rejection of capital punishment
for rape strongly confirms our own judgment”).
Footnote
8
 Justice O’Connor agrees
with our analysis that no national consensus exists here,
ante, at 8–12 (dissenting opinion). She is
nonetheless prepared (like the majority) to override the judgment
of America’s legislatures if it contradicts her own
assessment of “moral proportionality,” ante,
at 12. She dissents here only because it does not. The votes in
today’s case demonstrate that the offending of selected
lawyers’ moral sentiments is not a predictable basis for
law—much less a democratic one.
Footnote
9
 Justice O’Connor
asserts that the Eighth Amendment has a “special
character,” in that it “draws its meaning directly from
the maturing values of civilized society.” Ante, at
19. Nothing in the text reflects such a distinctive
character—and we have certainly applied the “maturing
values” rationale to give brave new meaning to other
provisions of the Constitution, such as the Due Process Clause and
the Equal Protection Clause. See, e.g., Lawrence
v. Texas, 539 U. S. 558,
571–573 (2003); United States v. Virginia,
518 U. S. 515,
532–534 (1996); Planned Parenthood of Southeastern
Pa. v. Casey, 505 U. S. 833,
847–850 (1992). Justice O’Connor asserts that an
international consensus can at least “serve to confirm the
reasonableness of a consonant and genuine American
consensus.” Ante, at 19. Surely not unless
it can also demonstrate the unreasonableness of such a
consensus. Either America’s principles are its own, or they
follow the world; one cannot have it both ways. Finally, Justice
O’Connor finds it unnecessary to consult foreign law in the
present case because there is “no . . . domestic
consensus” to be confirmed. Ibid. But since she
believes that the Justices can announce their own requirements of
“moral proportionality” despite the absence of
consensus, why would foreign law not be relevant to that
judgment? If foreign law is powerful enough to supplant the
judgment of the American people, surely it is powerful enough to
change a personal assessment of moral proportionality.

