::SCDB_caseID:: 2004-020
::decision_cite:: 543 U.S. 447 (2005)
::decision_name::  Bell v. Cone
::decision_year:: 2005
::opinion_author:: Ginsburg
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 


543 U. S. ____ (2005)
BELL V. CONE
543 U. S. ____ (2005)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															RICKY BELL, WARDEN v. GARY BRADFORD
CONE

															on petition for writ of certiorari to the united
states court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															No. 04–394.Decided January 24, 2005

															   Justice Ginsburg, with whom
Justice Souter and Justice Breyer join, concurring.

															   The Sixth Circuit assumed that
the Tennessee Supreme Court, on direct appeal, adjudicated the
merits of respondent’s vagueness claim. See 359 F. 3d
785, 791–794 (2004); see also ante, at 4. This Court
indulges the same assumption. See ante, at 9–11, 13.
I agree with the Court that, once the highest court of a State has
dispositively decided a point of law, it is not incumbent on that
court to cite its precedential decision in every case thereafter
presenting the same issue in order to demonstrate its adherence to
the pathmarking decision.

															   Today’s decision, as I comprehend it, is
confined to the situation the Sixth Circuit posited, one in which
the state court has confronted and decided an issue governed by a
prior ruling. This Court’s opinion, it bears emphasis, does
not grapple with the following scenario: A state prisoner petitions
for federal habeas review after exhausting his state remedies. In
the anterior state proceeding, the prisoner raised multiple issues.
The state court, in disposing of the case, left one or more of the
issues unaddressed. There would be no warrant, in such a case, for
an assumption that the state court, sub silentio,
considered the issue and resolved it on the merits in accord with
the State’s relevant law. Nothing in the record would
discount the possibility that the issue was simply overlooked. A
federal court would act arbitrarily if it assumed that an issue
raised in state court was necessarily decided there, despite the
absence of any indication that the state court itself adverted to
the point.

													
