::SCDB_caseID:: 2004-016
::decision_cite:: 543 U.S. 371 (2005)
::decision_name::  Clark v. Martinez
::decision_year:: 2005
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 


THOMAS, J., DISSENTING
CLARK V. MARTINEZ
543 U. S. ____ (2005)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NOS. 03-878 AND 03-7434

															A. NEIL CLARK, FIELD OFFICE DIRECTOR, SEATTLE,
WASHINGTON, IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT, et al.,
PETITIONERS

															03–878   v.
SERGIO SUAREZ MARTINEZ
on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit
DANIEL BENITEZ, PETITIONER
03–7434   v.
MICHAEL ROZOS, FIELD OFFICE DIRECTOR, MIAMI,
FLORIDA, IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT
on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the eleventh circuit
[January 12, 2005]
   Justice Thomas, with
whom The Chief Justice joins as to Part I–A, dissenting.

															   Title 8 U. S. C.
§1231(a)(6) states that aliens whom the Secretary of Homeland
Security has ordered removed “may be detained beyond the
removal period.” Nevertheless, in Zadvydas v.
Davis, 533
U. S. 678 (2001), this Court construed this provision “to
contain an implicit ‘reasonable time’ limitation”
on the Secretary’s power to detain admitted aliens
“[b]ased on our conclusion that indefinite detention
of” those aliens “would raise serious constitutional
concerns.” Id., at 682. “Aliens who have not
yet gained initial admission to this country,” the Court
assured us, “would present a very different question.”
Ibid.

															   Today, the Court holds that this
constitutional distinction—which “made all the
difference” to the Zadvydas Court, id., at
693—is actually irrelevant, because “[t]he operative
language of §1231(a)(6) … applies without
differentiation to all three categories of aliens that are its
subject.” Ante, at 6. While I wholeheartedly agree
with the Court’s fidelity to the text of §1231(a)(6),
the Court’s analysis cannot be squared with
Zadvydas. And even if it could be so squared,
Zadvydas was wrongly decided and should be overruled. I
respectfully dissent.

															I

															   I begin by addressing the
majority’s interpretation of Zadvydas. The
Court’s interpretation is not a fair reading of that case. It
is also not required by any sound principle of statutory
construction of which I am aware. To the contrary, what drives the
majority’s reading is a novel “lowest common
denominator” principle. Ante, at 8.

															A

															   The majority’s reading of
Zadvydas is implausible. Zadvydas held that
interpreting §1231(a)(6) to authorize indefinite detention of
admitted aliens later found removable would raise serious due
process concerns. 533 U. S., at 690–696. The Court therefore
read the statute to permit the Attorney General (now the Secretary
of Homeland Security) to detain admitted aliens only as long as
reasonably necessary to remove them from the country. Id.,
at 699.

															   The majority concedes that
Zadvydas explicitly reserved the question whether its
statutory holding as to admitted aliens applied equally to
inadmissible aliens. Ante, at 7. This reservation
was front and center in Zadvydas. It appeared in the
introduction and is worth repeating in full:

															“In these cases, we must decide whether
[§1231(a)(6)] authorizes the Attorney General to detain a
removable alien indefinitely beyond the removal period or
only for a period reasonably necessary to secure the
alien’s removal. We deal here with aliens who were admitted
to the United States but subsequently ordered removed. Aliens who
have not yet gained initial admission to this country would present
a very different question. Based on our conclusion that indefinite
detention of aliens in the former category would raise serious
constitutional concerns, we construe the statute to contain an
implicit ‘reasonable time’ limitation, the application
of which is subject to federal-court review.” 533 U. S., at
682 (citation omitted; emphasis in original).

															The Court reserved this question because the
constitutional questions raised by detaining inadmissible
aliens are different from those raised by detaining admitted
aliens. It stated that the detention period in §1231(a)(6) was
limited because it “read [the statute] in light of the
Constitution’s demands.” Id., at 689. And it
repeatedly emphasized constitutional distinctions among various
groups of aliens, for which §1231(a)(6) makes no distinctions.
See id., at 693–694 (noting the different
constitutional considerations applicable to inadmissible and
admissible aliens); id., at 695 (noting that “the
cases before us [do not] require us to consider the political
branches’ authority to control entry into the United
States”); id., at 696 (noting that the opinion did
not “consider terrorism or other special circumstances where
special arguments might be made for forms of preventive detention
and for heightened deference to the judgments of the political
branches with respect to matters of national security”).

															   The majority’s reading of
Zadvydas is inconsistent with these qualifications. If it
were true that Zadvydas’ interpretation of
§1231(a)(6) applied to all aliens regardless of the
constitutional concerns involved in each case, then the question of
how §1231(a)(6) applies to them would not be “very
different” depending on the alien before the Court. The
question would be trivial, because the text of §1231(a)(6)
plainly does not distinguish between admitted and nonadmitted
aliens. There would also have been no need for the Court to go out
of its way to leave aside “terrorism or other special
circumstances,” id., at 696, or to disavow
“considerat[ion of] the political branches’ authority
to control entry into the United States,” id., at
695, for the construction the majority extracts from
Zadvydas would have applied across the board,
ibid. And the Court’s rationalization that its
construction would therefore “leave no unprotected spot in
the Nation’s armor,” id., at 695–696
(internal quotation marks omitted), would have been incorrect. The
constitutional distinctions that pervade Zadvydas are
evidence that the “very different” statutory question
it reserved turned on them.

															   The Zadvydas Court thus tethered its
reading of §1231(a)(6) to the specific class of aliens before
it. The term this Court read into the statute was not simply a
presumptive 6-month period, but a presumptive 6-month period for
admitted aliens. Its reading of the statute “in light of the
Constitution’s demands,” id., at 689, that is,
depended on the constitutional considerations at work in
“the cases before [it],”
id., at 695 (emphasis added). One would expect the Court
today, then, to follow the same two-step procedure it employed in
Zadvydas. It should first ask whether the statute is
ambiguous and, if so, whether one of the possible interpretations
raises constitutional doubts as applied to Martinez and Benitez.
Step one is dictated by Zadvydas: §1231(a)(6) is not
clear on whether it permits indefinite detention. The Court should
then move to the second step and ask whether either of the
statute’s possible interpretations raises constitutional
doubts as applied to Benitez and Martinez. If so, the Court would
apply avoidance to adopt the interpretation free from
constitutional doubt (as Zadvydas itself did).

															   The Court’s reasons for departing from
this reading of Zadvydas are unpersuasive. The Court says
that its reading is necessary to avoid “invent[ing] a statute
rather than interpret[ing] one,” ante, at 6; to
preclude “giving the same detention provision a
different meaning” depending on the aliens before the Court,
ante, at 8 (emphasis in original); and to forestall
establishing “the dangerous principle that judges can give
the same statutory text different meanings in different
cases,” ante, at 15. I agree that we should adopt
none of these principles, but this is no warrant for the reading of
Zadvydas that the majority advocates. Zadvydas
established a single and unchanging, if implausible, meaning of
§1231(a)(6): that the detention period authorized by
§1231(a)(6) depends not only on the circumstances surrounding
a removal, but also on the type of alien ordered removed.

															   I grant that this understanding of
Zadvydas could result in different detention periods for
different classes of aliens—indefinite detention for some,
limited detention for others. But it does not follow that this
reads the meaning of the statute to “change” depending
on the alien involved, any more than the meaning of the statute
could be said to “change” simply because the time that
is “reasonably necessary to effect removal” may differ
depending on the type of alien involved, as both the Court’s
opinion, ante, at 15, and Justice O’Connor’s
concurring opinion, ante, at 1, concede it may. A
statute’s sense is the same even if what it requires depends
on factual context.

															   In support of its reading of
Zadvydas, the Court relies on a statement in a dissent in
Zadvydas that §1231(a)(6) could not be given a
different reading for inadmissible aliens. Ante, at 8
(citing 533 U. S., at 710–711, 717 (opinion of Kennedy, J.)).
That dissenting view, as the very quotation the majority stresses
demonstrates, rested on the dissent’s premise that “it
is not a plausible construction of §1231(a)(6) to imply a time
limit as to one class and not to another.” Id., at
710 (opinion of Kennedy, J.). But the Zadvydas majority
disagreed with that assumption and adopted a contrary
interpretation of §1231(a)(6). For as the dissent recognized,
Zadvydas’ “logic might be that inadmissible
and removable aliens might be treated differently.”
Ibid. That was Zadvydas’ logic precisely,
as its repeated statements limiting its decision to inadmissible
aliens show. To interpret Zadvydas properly, we must take
its logic as given, not the logic of the reductio ad
absurdum of Zadvydas that I joined in dissent.

															B

															   The majority strains to
recharacterize Zadvydas because it thinks that “[i]t
is not at all unusual to give a statute’s ambiguous language
a limiting construction called for by one of the statute’s
applications, even though other of the statute’s
applications, standing alone, would not support the same
limitation.” Ante, at 8. In other words, it claims,
“[t]he lowest common denominator, as it were, must
govern.” Ibid. I disagree.

															   As an initial matter, this
principle is inconsistent with Zadvydas itself. As
explained above, the limiting construction Zadvydas
adopted as to admitted aliens does not necessarily govern the other
applications of §1231(a)(6). If the majority is correct that
the “lowest common denominator” governs, then the
careful distinction Zadvydas drew between admitted aliens
and nonadmitted aliens was irrelevant at best and misleading at
worst. Under this reading, Zadvydas would have come out
the same way even if it had involved inadmissible aliens, for the
“lowest common denominator” of the statute remains the
same regardless of the identity of the alien before the Court.
Again, this understanding of Zadvydas is implausible.

															   Beyond Zadvydas, the Court offers
scant support for the idea that statutes should be stripped down to
their “lowest common denominator[s].” It attempts to
distinguish Jinks v. Richland County, 538 U. S. 456 (2003),
and Raygor v. Regents of Univ. of Minn., 534 U. S. 533 (2002),
ante, at 11–12, and n. 6, yet these cases employed
exactly the procedure that the majority today says is
impermissible. They construed 28 U. S. C.
§1367(d),[Footnote 1] a
tolling provision, to apply to States and political subdivisions of
States only to the extent that doing so would raise a
constitutional doubt as applied to either entity. Jinks
was explicit on this point:

															“Although we held in [Raygor] that
§1367(d) does not apply to claims filed in federal court
against States but subsequently dismissed on sovereign
immunity grounds, we did so to avoid interpreting the statute in a
manner that would raise ‘serious constitutional doubt’
in light of our decisions protecting a
State’s sovereign immunity from
congressional abrogation … . [N]o such constitutional
doubt arises from holding that petitioner’s claim against
respondent—which is not a State, but a political subdivision
of a State—falls under the definition of ‘any
claim asserted under subsection (a) [of
§1367].’ ” 538 U. S., at 466 (citation
omitted; emphasis in original).

															This passage reads the meaning of
§1367(d)—which applies to “any claim asserted
under subsection (a)” of §1367—to hinge on the
constitutional context. The Court is correct that Jinks
and Raygor “hold that the single and unchanging
disposition of §1367(d) … does not apply to claims
against States.” Ante, at 12. But as the Court
concedes, Jinks reached that holding only after analyzing
whether the constitutional doubts at issue in Raygor
applied to the county defendant. Ante, at 12, n. 6. The
Court’s failure to do the same here cannot be reconciled with
Jinks and Raygor: the Court should ask whether
the constitutional concerns that justified the requirement of a
clear statement in Zadvydas apply as well to inadmissible
aliens.

															   The Court’s “lowest common
denominator” principle is also in tension with
Salinas v. United States, 522 U. S. 52 (1997).
There, we rejected an argument that the federal bribery statute, 18
U. S. C. §666(a)(1)(B), should be construed to avoid
constitutional doubts, in part on the ground that there was
“no serious doubt about the constitutionality of
§666(a)(1)(B) as applied to the facts of this case.” 522
U. S., at 60 (emphasis added). Unlike the Court’s approach to
avoidance today, we disclaimed examination of the constitutionality
of applications not before the Court: “Whatever might be said
about §666(a)(1)(B)’s application in other cases, the
application of §666(a)(1)(B) did not extend federal power
beyond its proper bounds.” Id., at 61. The Court is
mistaken that this passage in Salinas was a rejection of a
constitutional argument on its merits. Ante, at 9, n. 5.
Salinas, the petitioner, phrased his question presented solely in
terms of the proper statutory interpretation of §666(a)(1)(B),
Brief for Petitioner, O. T. 1996, No. 96–738, p. i, and
never claimed that the statute was unconstitutional, see generally
ibid.

															C

															   More importantly, however, the
Court’s “lowest common denominator” principle is
inconsistent with the history of the canon of avoidance and is
likely to have mischievous consequences. The modern canon of
avoidance is a doctrine under which courts construe ambiguous
statutes to avoid constitutional doubts, but this doctrine has its
origins in a very different form of the canon. Traditionally, the
avoidance canon was not a doctrine under which courts read statutes
to avoid mere constitutional doubts. Instead, it commanded courts,
when faced with two plausible constructions of a statute—one
constitutional and the other unconstitutional—to choose the
constitutional reading.[Footnote
2] The traditional version of the canon thus requires courts to
reach the issue whether the doubtful version of the statute is
constitutional before adopting the construction that saves the
statute from constitutional invalidity. A court faced with an
ambiguous statute applies traditional avoidance by asking whether,
given two plausible interpretations of that statute, one would be
unconstitutional as applied to the plaintiff; and, if that
interpretation is actually unconstitutional as applied to the
plaintiff, the court picks the other (constitutional) reading. The
court does not inquire whether either of the interpretations would
be unconstitutional if applied to third parties not before the
court, unless the challenge is facial or otherwise implicates
third-party rights.

															   This history suggests that the
“lowest common denominator” principle is mistaken.
Courts applying the modern version of the canon of avoidance should
no more look to the rights of third parties than do courts using
the traditional version. Under modern avoidance, in other words, an
ambiguous statute should be read to avoid a constitutional doubt
only if the statute is constitutionally doubtful as applied to the
litigant before the court (again, unless the constitutional
challenge involves third-party rights). Yet the Court’s
lowest common denominator principle allows a limiting construction
of an ambiguous statute prompted by constitutional doubts to infect
other applications of the statute—even if the statute raises
no constitutional doubt as applied to the specific litigant in a
given case and even if the constitutionally unproblematic
application of the statute to the litigant is severable from the
constitutionally dubious applications. The lowest common
denominator principle thus allows an end run around black-letter
constitutional doctrine governing facial and as-applied
constitutional challenges to statutes: A litigant ordinarily cannot
attack statutes as constitutionally invalid based on constitutional
doubts concerning other litigants or factual circumstances.

															   The Court misses the point by answering that
the canon of constitutional avoidance “is not a method of
adjudicating constitutional questions by other means,” and
that the canon rests on a presumption that “Congress did not
intend the alternative which raises serious constitutional
doubts.” Ante, at 10. That is true, but in deciding
whether a plausible interpretation “raises serious
constitutional doubts,” a court must employ the usual rules
of constitutional adjudication. See ante, at 9 (noting
that whether an interpretation is constitutionally doubtful turns
on whether it raises “a multitude of constitutional
problems”); Zadvydas, 533 U. S., at 690–696
(extensively employing constitutional analysis). Those rules
include doctrines governing third-party constitutional challenges
and the like. Moreover, the reason that courts perform avoidance at
all, in any form, is that we assume “Congress intends
statutes to have effect to the full extent the Constitution
allows.” United States v. Booker,
ante, at __ (Thomas, J., dissenting in part). Only my
approach would extend §1231(a)(6) to its full constitutional
bound consistent with modern avoidance, by narrowing the statute on
a case-by-case basis only if constitutional concerns are actually
present. By contrast, under the majority’s lowest common
denominator principle, a statute like §1231(a)(6) must be
narrowed once and for all based on constitutional concerns that may
never materialize. In short, once narrowed in Zadvydas,
§1231(a)(6) now limits the Executive’s power to detain
unadmitted aliens—even though indefinite detention of
unadmitted aliens may be perfectly constitutional.

															   All of this shows why the sole support the
majority offers for its lowest common denominator principle can be
squared with my analysis. That support is a plurality opinion of
this Court (reaffirmed by footnote dictum in Leocal v.
Ashcroft, ante, at ___, n. 8), that stated
that the rule of lenity applies to statutes so long as they have
some criminal applications. Ante, at 8 (citing United
States v. Thompson/Center Arms Co., 504 U. S.505, 517
(1992)). To the extent that the rule of lenity is a
constitutionally based clear statement rule, it is like vagueness
doctrine, as its purpose is to ensure that those subjected to
criminal prosecution have adequate notice of the conduct that the
law prohibits. Cf., e.g., McBoyle v. United
States, 283 U.
S. 25, 27 (1931). Thompson/Center Arms is thus
distinguishable, because our rules governing third-party challenges
(rightly or wrongly) are more lenient in vagueness cases.[Footnote 3] Zadvydas, by
contrast, was a straightforward as-applied constitutional
challenge. It concerned a constitutional doubt that arose from
§1231(a)(6)’s application to Zadvydas himself, not its
hypothetical application to other aliens, as its careful
distinction between admitted and inadmissible aliens shows. To the
extent that the rule of lenity is a nonconstitutionally based
presumption about the interpretation of criminal statutes, the
Thompson/Center Arms interpretive principle is
fundamentally different from the canon of constitutional avoidance,
because the rule of lenity is wholly independent of the rules
governing constitutional adjudication. Either way, this case does
not support the majority’s restatement of modern avoidance
principles.

															   The cases at bar illustrate well the exception
to the normal operation of as-applied constitutional adjudication
that the Court’s approach creates. Congress explicitly
provided that unconstitutional applications of §1231(a)(6)
should be severed from constitutional applications.[Footnote 4] Congress has thus indicated that
courts should examine whether §1231(a)(6) raises a
constitutional doubt application by application. After all, under
the severability clause, if Zadvydas had held
unconstitutional the indefinite detention of Zadvydas and Ho Ma,
the constitutionality of the Secretary’s indefinite detention
of Benitez and Martinez would remain an open question. Although
Zadvydas did not formally hold §1231(a)(6) to be
unconstitutional as applied to the aliens before it, the same
procedure should be followed when analyzing whether
§1231(a)(6) raises a constitutional doubt.[Footnote 5] The Court today limits applications
of §1231(a)(6) that may well be constitutional solely on the
basis of constitutional doubts as to other applications,
and despite that the severability clause contemplates
application-by-application examination of the statute’s
constitutionality.

															   The Court misapprehends my interpretive
approach. It suggests that I would “spare [us] the necessity
of ever finding a statute unconstitutional as applied,”
ante, at 13, and “would render every statute a
chameleon, its meaning subject to change depending on the presence
or absence of constitutional concerns in each individual
case,” ante, at 10. My approach does none of this. I
simply would read ambiguous statutes to avoid as-applied
constitutional doubts only if those doubts are present in the case
before the Court. This leaves plenty of room for as-applied
invalidation of statutes that are unambiguously unconstitutional.
Nor would I permit a court to read every statute’s meaning to
depend on constitutional concerns. That is permissible, in my view,
only if the statute is ambiguous. Granted, I am thereby guilty of
leaving courts free to interpret ambiguous statutes “as
becoming inoperative when they ‘approach constitutional
limits.’ ” Ante, at 13. That is
hardly an absurd result—unless one considers the modern canon
of constitutional avoidance itself to be absurd. Every application
of that canon, by rejecting a plausible interpretation of a
statute, reads the statute to be inoperative to the extent it
raises a constitutional doubt or “limit.”

															   In truth, the Court’s aggressive
application of modern constitutional avoidance doctrine poses the
greater danger. A disturbing number of this Court’s cases
have applied the canon of constitutional doubt to statutes that
were on their face clear. See, e.g., INS v. St.
Cyr, 533 U. S.
289, 327–336 (2001) (Scalia, J., dissenting); Public
Citizen v. Department of Justice, 491 U. S. 440,
481–482 (1989) (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment);
Lowe v. SEC, 472 U. S. 181,
212–213 (1985) (White, J., concurring in result). This Court
and others may now employ the “lowest common
denominator” approach to limit the application of statutes
wholesale by searching for hypothetical unconstitutional
applications of them—or, worse yet, hypothetical
constitutional doubts—despite the absence of any
facial constitutional problem (at least, so long as those
hypothetical doubts pose “a multitude of constitutional
problems,” ante, at 9). This is so even if Congress
has expressed its clear intent that unconstitutional applications
should be severed from constitutional applications, regardless of
whether the challenger has third-party standing to raise the
constitutional issue, and without the need to engage in
full-fledged constitutional analysis.

															   This danger is real. In St. Cyr, this
Court held that the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) did not
divest district courts of jurisdiction under 28 U. S. C.
§2241 over habeas actions filed by criminal aliens to
challenge removal orders, 533 U. S., at 314. The Court did so
because it thought that otherwise the statute would preclude any
avenue of judicial review of removal orders of criminal aliens,
thus raising a serious Suspension Clause question. Id., at
305. This was a construction of (among other provisions) 8 U.
S. C. §§1252(a)(1) and 1252(b)(9), and 28 U.
S. C. §2241, none of which distinguishes between criminal
and noncriminal aliens. 533 U. S., at 308–314. The INA,
however, clearly allows noncriminal aliens, unlike criminal aliens,
a right to judicial review of removal decisions in the courts of
appeals under the review provisions of §1252(a)(1), and
St. Cyr involved only criminal aliens. After St.
Cyr, therefore, one would have thought that “noncriminal
aliens seeking to challenge their removal orders . . . [would]
still presumably be required to proceed directly to the court of
appeals by way of petition for review, under the restrictive
modified Hobbs Act review provisions set forth in
§1252(a)(1),” rather than sue directly under the habeas
statute. Id., at 335 (Scalia, J., joined by Rehnquist,
C. J., and O’Connor and Thomas, JJ., dissenting). Yet
lower courts, relying on a version of the Court’s
“lowest common denominator” principle, have held just
the opposite: They have entertained noncriminal aliens’
habeas actions challenging removal orders. Chmakov v.
Blackman, 266 F. 3d 210, 214–215 (CA3 2001);
see also Riley v. INS, 310 F. 3d 1253, 1256
(CA10 2002); Liu v. INS, 293 F. 3d 36,
38–41 (CA2 2002). The logic in allowing noncriminal aliens,
who have a right to judicial review of removal decisions, to take
advantage of constitutional doubt that arises from precluding any
avenue of judicial review for criminal aliens, see St.
Cyr, supra, at 305, escapes me.

															II

															   The Court is also mistaken in
affording Zadvydas stare decisis effect.
Zadvydas was wrong in both its statutory and its
constitutional analysis for the reasons expressed well by the
dissents in that case. See 533 U. S., at 705–718 (opinion of
Kennedy, J.); id., at 702–705 (opinion of Scalia,
J.). I continue to adhere to those views and will not repeat the
analysis of my colleagues. I write only to explain why I do not
consider Zadvydas to bind us.

															   Zadvydas cast itself as
a statutory case, but that fact should not prevent us from
overruling it. It is true that we give stronger stare
decisis effect to our holdings in statutory cases than in
constitutional cases. See, e.g., Hilton v.
South Carolina Public Railways Comm’n, 502 U. S. 197, 205
(1991). This rule, however, is not absolute, and we should not
hesitate to allow our precedent to yield to the true meaning of an
Act of Congress when our statutory precedent is
“unworkable” or “badly reasoned.”
Holder v. Hall, 512 U. S. 874, 936
(1994) (Thomas, J., concurring in judgment) (quoting Payne
v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 827
(1991) (internal quotation marks omitted)). “[W]e have never
applied stare decisis mechanically to prohibit overruling
our earlier decisions determining the meaning of statutes.”
Monell v. New York City Dept. of Social Servs.,
436 U. S. 658,
695 (1978). The mere fact that Congress can overturn our cases by
statute is no excuse for failing to overrule a statutory precedent
of ours that is clearly wrong, for the realities of the legislative
process often preclude readopting the original meaning of a statute
that we have upset.

															   Zadvydas’ reading of
§1231(a)(6) is untenable. Section 1231(a)(6) provides that
aliens whom the Secretary of Homeland Security has ordered removed
“may be detained beyond the removal period.” There is
no qualification to this authorization, and no reference to a
“reasonable time” limitation. Just as we exhaust the
aid of the “traditional tools of statutory
construction,” Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v.
Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 843,
n. 9 (1984), before deferring to an agency’s
interpretation of a statute, so too should we exhaust those tools
before deciding that a statute is ambiguous and that an alternative
plausible construction of the statute should be adopted.

															   Application of those traditional tools begins
and ends with the text of §1231(a)(6).
Zadvydas’ observation that “if Congress had
meant to authorize long-term detention of unremovable aliens, it
certainly could have spoken in clearer terms,” 533 U. S., at
697, proves nothing. Congress could have spoken more clearly in any
statutory case in which the statute does not mention the particular
factual scenario before the Court. Congress provided for a
“reasonable time” limit to detentions pending removal
in other portions of §1231. Id., at 708 (Kennedy, J.,
dissenting). Its failure to do the same in §1231(a)(6)
confirms what is unmistakable from its terms: that there is no time
limit on the Secretary’s power to detain aliens. There is no
textually evident alternative construction that would avoid the
constitutional doubts identified by the majority.

															   Even apart from the Court’s incredible
reading of §1231(a)(6), the normal reason for affording our
statutory holdings strong stare decisis effect—that
Congress is free to overrule them if it disagrees—does not
apply to Zadvydas. Zadvydas is a statutory case
in name only. Although the Zadvydas majority purported to
find indefinite detention only constitutionally doubtful, its
lengthy analysis strongly signaled to Congress that indefinite
detention of admitted aliens would be unconstitutional. Indeed, far
from avoiding that constitutional question in Zadvydas,
the Court took it head on, giving it extended treatment.
Id., at 690–697; but see ante, at 10
(noting the “fundamenta[l]” tenet that “[t]he
canon [of constitutional avoidance] is not a method of adjudicating
constitutional questions by other means”). Zadvydas
makes clear that the Court thought indefinite detention to be more
than constitutionally suspect, and there is evidence that some
Members of Congress understood as much.[Footnote 6] This is why the Court’s assurance that
if “the security of our borders will be compromised if [the
United States] must release into the country inadmissible aliens
who cannot be removed. . . . Congress can attend to it,”
ante, at 14, rings hollow. Short of constitutional
amendment, it is only within the power of this Court to correct
Zadvydas’ error.

															   The Court points to 8 U. S. C.
§1226a(a)(6) (2000 ed., Supp. II), a statute that Congress
passed shortly after Zadvydas, as evidence that Congress
can correct Zadvydas’ mistake. Ante, at
14–15, n. 8. This statute only confirms my concern that
Zadvydas is legislatively uncorrectable. Section
1226a(a)(6) authorizes detention for a period of six months beyond
the removal period of aliens who present a national security
threat, but only to the extent that those aliens’ removal is
not reasonably foreseeable. Ante, at 14–15,
n. 8. Yet Zadvydas conceded that indefinite detention
might not violate due process in “certain special and narrow
nonpunitive circumstances … where a special justification,
such as harm-threatening mental illness, outweighs the
individual’s constitutionally protected interest in avoiding
physical restraint.” 533 U. S., at 690 (internal quotation
marks and citations omitted). Moreover, Zadvydas set a
6-month presumptive outer limit on the detention power.
Id., at 701. Congress crafted §1226a(a)(6) to operate
within the boundaries Zadvydas set. This provision says
nothing about whether Congress may authorize detention of aliens
for greater lengths of time or for reasons the Court found
constitutionally problematic in Zadvydas.

															***

															   For the foregoing reasons, I
would affirm the judgment of the Eleventh Circuit and reverse the
judgment of the Ninth Circuit. I therefore respectfully
dissent.
Footnote 1

															 Section 1367(d) provides that “[t]he
period of limitations for any claim asserted under [§1367(a)],
and for any other claim in the same action that is voluntarily
dismissed at the same time as or after the dismissal of the claim
under [§1367(a)], shall be tolled while the claim is pending
and for a period of 30 days after it is dismissed unless State law
provides for a longer tolling period.”
Footnote 2

															 See Rust v. Sullivan,
500 U. S. 173,
190–191 (1991) (distinguishing the classic and modern
versions of the canon and citing cases); Hooper v.
California, 155 U. S. 648, 657
(1895) (“The elementary rule is that every reasonable
construction must be resorted to, in order to save a statute from
unconstitutionality”); Mossman v.
Higginson, 4 Dall. 12, 14 (1800) (reasoning that the
statute under review “can, and must, receive a construction,
consistent with the constitution”); Ex parte
Randolph, 20 F. Cas. 242, 254 (No. 11,558) (CC Va. 1833)
(Marshall, J.); Vermeule, Saving Constructions, 85 Geo. L. J.
1945, 1949 (1997); H. Black, Handbook on the Construction and
Interpretation of the Laws 113–114 (2d ed. 1911). The modern
version seems to have originated in United States ex rel.
Attorney General v. Delaware & Hudson Co.,
213 U. S. 366,
408 (1909).
Footnote 3

															 See, e.g., Chicago v.
Morales, 527
U. S. 41, 55, and n. 22 (1999) (plurality opinion);
Kolender v. Lawson, 461 U. S. 352,
358–359, n. 8 (1983); Papachristou v.
Jacksonville, 405 U. S. 156
(1972).
Footnote 4

															 “If any provision of this division
… or the application of such provision to any person or
circumstances is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this
division and the application of the provisions of this division to
any person or circumstance shall not be affected thereby.”
Note following 8 U. S. C. §1101, p. 840
(Separability).
Footnote 5

															 Crowell v. Benson, 285 U. S. 22 (1932),
bolsters my approach. Employing the canon of avoidance, the Court
construed a statute in that case to allow judicial review of
jurisdictional facts but not legislative facts. It did so even
though the terms of the statute itself did not distinguish between
the two sorts of facts. Id., at 62–63. The presence
of a severability provision in the statute gave “assurance
that there [was] no violation of the purpose of the Congress in
sustaining the determinations of fact of the deputy commissioner
where he acts within his authority in passing upon compensation
claims while denying finality to his conclusions as to the
jurisdictional facts upon which the valid application of the
statute depends.” Ibid. So too here, the presence of
a severability provision should reassure the Court that applying
Zadvydas’ limiting construction of §1231(a)(6)
to some aliens and not others is consistent with the statute.
Footnote 6

															 See H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 108–10,
p. 600 (2003) (“A recent Supreme Court decision held that
criminal aliens cannot be detained indefinitely,” no doubt
referring to Zadvydas); H. R. Rep. No. 108–724,
pt. 5, p. 191 (2004) (“The danger posed by the requirement
that these aliens be allowed to remain in the U. S. was increased
exponentially by the 2001 Supreme Court decision of
Zadvydas v. Davis, in which the Court made clear
that it would strike down as unconstitutional the indefinite
detention by [the Secretary] of aliens with removal orders whose
countries will not take them back, except in the most narrow of
circumstances” (footnotes omitted)); 147 Cong. Rec. S11047
(Oct. 25, 2001) (“Indefinite detention of aliens is permitted
only in extraordinary circumstances,” citing
Zadvydas).

													
