::SCDB_caseID:: 2004-050
::decision_cite:: 544 U.S. 660 (2005)
::decision_name::  Medellín v. Dretke
::decision_year:: 2005
::opinion_author:: Ginsburg
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 


GINSBURG, J., CONCURRING
MEDELLIN V. DRETKE
544 U. S. ____ (2005)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 04-5928

															JOSE ERNESTO MEDELLIN, PETITIONER v. DOUG
DRETKE, DIRECTOR, TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE,
CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIONS DIVISION

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the fifth circuit

															[May 23, 2005]

															   Justice Ginsburg, with whom
Justice Scalia joins as to Part II, concurring.

															   Petitioner José
Medellín, a Mexican national, was arrested, detained, tried,
convicted, and sentenced to death in Texas without being informed
of rights accorded him under the Vienna Convention on Consular
Relations, Apr. 24, 1963, [1970] 21 U. S. T. 77,
100–101, T. I. A. S. No. 6820. The Convention
called for prompt notice of Medellín’s arrest to the
Mexican consul. Medellín could then seek consular advice and
assistance.

															   After unsuccessful challenges to his
conviction and sentence, first in state court, later in federal
court, Medellín sought this Court’s review. His
petition for certiorari, which this Court granted, rests primarily
on a judgment rendered by the International Court of Justice (ICJ)
on March 31, 2004: Case Concerning Avena and other Mexican
Nationals (Mex. v. U. S.), 2004 I. C. J.
No. 128 (Avena). Medellín’s petition also
draws support from an ICJ judgment of the same order earlier
rendered against the United States: LaGrand Case
(F. R. G. v. U. S.), 2001
I. C. J. 466 (Judgment of June 27) (LaGrand).
The ICJ held in Avena that the failure to accord Vienna
Convention rights to Medellín and other similarly situated
Mexican nationals necessitated review and reconsideration of their
convictions and sentences by United States courts. Further, the ICJ
specified, procedural default doctrines could not be invoked to bar
the required review and reconsideration. Medellín sought
certiorari on two questions: (1) Are courts in the United States
bound by the Avena judgment; (2) Should courts in the
United States give effect to the Avena and
LaGrand judgments “in the interest of judicial
comity and uniform treaty interpretation.” Brief for
Petitioner i.

															   On February 28, 2005, President Bush
announced:

															“[T]he United States will discharge its
international obligations under the decision of the International
Court of Justice in [Avena], by having State courts give
effect to the decision in accordance with general principles of
comity.” Memorandum for the Attorney General (Feb. 28, 2005),
App. 2 to Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 9a
(hereinafter President’s Memorandum).

															Medellín thereupon moved to stay further
proceedings in this Court pending his pursuit of remedies in Texas
court, as contemplated by the President’s Memorandum. I would
grant Medellín’s stay motion as the most conservative
among courses the Court might take. That “least change”
measure, however, has not garnered majority support.

															I

															   The Court is divided between two
responses to Medellín’s petition in light of the
President’s Memorandum: (1) remand to the Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit for initial rulings on a host of difficult
issues, post, at 13, 19 (O’Connor, J., dissenting),
recognizing that court’s prerogative to hold the case in
abeyance pending Medellín’s pursuit of relief in state
court, post, at 20; or (2) dismiss the writ, recognizing
that “in all likelihood” this Court would be positioned
“to review the Texas courts’ treatment of the
President’s [M]emorandum and [the Avena judgment]
unencumbered by the [threshold] issues that arise from the
procedural posture of this action,” ante, at
3–4, n. 1. The former course would invite the Fifth
Circuit to conduct proceedings rival to those recently launched in
state court, or to put the case on hold, a cautionary measure this
Court itself is unwilling take. The latter would leave nothing
pending here, but would enable this Court ultimately to resolve,
clearly and cleanly, the controlling effect of the ICJ’s
Avena judgment, shorn of procedural hindrances that
pervade the instant action.

															II

															   For the reasons stated below, I
join the Court’s election to dismiss the writ as
improvidently granted in light of the President’s Memorandum
and the state-court proceeding instituted in accordance with that
Memorandum. I do so recognizing that this Court would have
jurisdiction to review the final judgment in the Texas proceedings,
and at that time, to rule definitively on “the Nation’s
obligation under the judgment of the ICJ if that should prove
necessary.” Post, at 2 (Souter, J., dissenting).

															   The principal dissent would
return the case to the Fifth Circuit leaving unresolved a
bewildering array of questions. See post, at 13 (opinion
of O’Connor, J.) (describing issues not touched by this Court
as “difficult”). Among inquiries left open “for
further proceedings”: Is a certificate of appealability (COA)
available when the applicant is not complaining of “the
denial of a constitutional right”? Post, at
6–7 (O’Connor, J., dissenting) (internal quotation
marks omitted); cf. ante, at 5–6. What directions
must a lower court take from Teague v. Lane,
489 U. S. 288
(1989), and perhaps from Reed v. Farley, 512 U. S. 339 (1994),
and Hill v. United States, 368 U. S. 424 (1962)?
Post, at 10–11 (O’Connor, J., dissenting); cf.
ante, at 4. Is it open to a lower court to resolve the
“conflict between Avena and [this Court’s]
decision in Breard v. Greene, 523 U. S. 371, 376
(1998) (per curiam)”? Post, at 13
(O’Connor, J., dissenting).[Footnote 1] Has Medellín exhausted state avenues
for relief, see ante, at 6; Rhines v.
Weber, ante, p. ___; Rose v.
Lundy, 455
U. S. 509, 518–520 (1982); cf. post, at
11–12, n. 1 (O’Connor, J., dissenting), given that
the Avena judgment and the President’s response to
it postdate the rejection of Medellín’s pleas in Texas
proceedings? While contentious preliminary issues clog final
determination of Medellín’s claim for federal habeas
relief based on the ICJ’s judgments, action by the Texas
courts could render the entire array of questions moot. See
post, at 3 (Souter, J., dissenting) (“[A]ction in
the Texas courts might re- move any occasion to proceed under the
federal habeas petition.”).

															   Further, at odds with the President’s
determination to “give effect to the [Avena]
decision in accordance with general principles of comity,”
President’s Memorandum, and in conspicuous conflict with the
law of judgments, see Restatement (Second) of Conflict of Laws
§98 (1988); Restatement (Third) of Foreign Relations Law of
the United States §481 (1986); Restatement (Second) of
Judgments §17 (1980), the principal dissent would instruct the
Court of Appeals to “hol[d] up the Avena
interpretation of the [Vienna Convention] against the domestic
court’s own conclusions.” Post, at 13 (opinion
of O’Connor, J.). But cf. ALI, Recognition and Enforcement of
Foreign Judgments: Analysis and Proposed Federal Statute §2,
Comment d, p. 38 (2005) (“[A] judgment entitled
to recognition will not be reexamined on the merits by a second
court.”). It is the long-recognized general rule that, when a
judgment binds or is respected as a matter of comity, a
“let’s see if we agree” approach is out of order.
See Hilton v. Guyot, 159 U. S. 113,
202–203 (1895) (where “comity of this nation”
calls for recognition of a judgment rendered abroad, “the
merits of the case should not … be tried afresh …
upon the mere assertion … that the judgment was erroneous in
law or in fact”); see also Restatement (Second) of Conflict
of Laws §106 (1969) (“A judgment will be recognized and
enforced in other states even though an error of fact or of law was
made in the proceedings before judgment . . . .”);
id., §106, Comment a (“Th[is] rule is
… applicable to judgments rendered in foreign nations . . .
.”); Reese, The Status in This Country of Judgments Rendered
Abroad, 50 Colum. L. Rev. 783, 789 (1950) (“[Foreign]
judgments will not be denied effect merely because the original
court made an error either of fact or of law.”).[Footnote 2]

															   Troubling as well, the principal dissent
provides no clear instructions to the Court of Appeals on which of
the several questions the dissenters would remit to that court
comes first, which others “should be part of” the COA
determination, post, at 11 (opinion of O’Connor,
J.), and which are meet for adjudication only if, as, or when a COA
is granted. The participation of a federal court in the fray at
this point, moreover, risks disturbance of, or collision with, the
proceeding Medellín has commenced in Texas. The principal
dissent appears ultimately to acknowledge that concern by observing
that the Fifth Circuit might “hold the case on its docket
until Medellín’s successive petition was resolved in
state court.” Post, at 20 (opinion of
O’Connor, J.); see also post, at 3 (Souter, J.,
dissenting); post, at 3 (Breyer, J., dissenting). But
given this Court’s unwillingness to put the case on hold
here, one might ask what justifies parking the case, instead, in
the Court of Appeals.

															   The per curiam opinion which I join
rests on two complementary grounds. First, the Texas proceeding
“may provide Medellín with the very reconsideration of
his Vienna Convention claim that he now seeks in the present
proceeding.” Ante, at 1. Second, the instant
proceeding comes to us freighted with formidable threshold issues,
ante, at 4–6, that deter definitive answers to the
questions presented in the petition for certiorari.

															   Petitioner’s recent filing in the Texas
Court of Criminal Appeals raises two discrete bases for relief that
were not previously available for presentation to a state forum:
the ICJ’s Avena judgment and the President’s
Memorandum. See Subsequent Application for Post-Conviction Writ of
Habeas Corpus in Ex Parte Medellín, Trial Cause
Nos. 67,5429 and 67,5430 (Tex. Crim. App.), p. 13 (filed Mar. 24,
2005). (“President Bush’s determination and the
Avena Judgment constitute two separate sources of binding
federal law.”). The Texas courts are now positioned
immediately to adjudicate these cleanly presented issues in the
first instance. In turn, it will be this Court’s
responsibility, at the proper time and if need be, to provide the
ultimate answers.
Footnote 1

															 See Rodriguez de Quijas v.
Shearson/American Express, Inc., 490 U. S. 477, 484
(1989) (cautioning lower courts against disturbing this
Court’s decisions). But cf. post, at 2 (Souter, J.,
dissenting).
Footnote 2

															 The principal dissent maintains that the
second question on which we granted certiorari asks “whether
and what weight [short of binding effect] American courts should
give to Avena,” in the course of independently
interpreting the treaty, “perhaps for sake of uniform treaty
interpretation.” Post, at 13 (opinion of
O’Connor, J.); see post, at 13–14, and n. 2
(same). Significantly, Medellín chose not to break out for
discrete review in this Court questions underlying and subsumed in
the ICJ’s judgments in Avena, 2004
I. C. J. No. 128 (Judgment of Mar. 31), and
LaGrand, 2001 I. C. J. 466 (Judgment of June
27), i.e., whether the Vienna Convention “creates a
judicially enforceable individual right” and whether it
“sometimes requires state procedural default rules to be set
aside so that the treaty can be given ‘full
effect,’ ” post, at 1 (O’Connor,
J., dissenting). Nor does Medellín’s invocation of
“international comity,” Brief for Petitioner 45, or his
plea for “uniform treaty interpretation,” id.,
at 48, seek this Court’s independent interpretation of the
Convention. Instead, he urges that comity is accorded, and
uniformity achieved, by recognizing as authoritative the
ICJ’s interpretation as elaborated in successive judgments
against the United States. See id., at 49 (“Given
its consent to the ICJ’s jurisdiction, the United States
should treat as authoritative any interpretation or
application of the Convention by that court.”); see
also Reply Brief 16 (observing that the United States “agreed
that the ICJ would have final authority to resolve
disputes over the treaty’s interpretation and
application” (emphasis added)).

													
