::SCDB_caseID:: 2004-053
::decision_cite:: 544 U.S. 734 (2005)
::decision_name::  Tory v. Cochran
::decision_year:: 2005
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 


THOMAS, J., DISSENTING
TORY V. COCHRAN
544 U. S. ____ (2005)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 03-1488

															ULYSSES TORY, et al., PETITIONERS v.
JOHNNIE L. COCHRAN, Jr.

															on writ of certiorari to the court of appeal of
california, second appellate district

															[May 31, 2005]

															   Justice Thomas, with whom Justice
Scalia joins, dissenting.

															   I would dismiss the writ of
certiorari as improvidently granted. We granted the writ, as the
Court notes, to decide

															“[w]hether a permanent injunction as a remedy
in a defamation action, preventing all future speech about an
admitted public figure, violates the First Amendment.” Pet.
for Cert. i; ante, at 2.

															Whether or not Johnnie Cochran’s death moots
this case, it certainly renders the case an inappropriate vehicle
for resolving the question presented. The Court recognizes this,
ante, at 3, but nevertheless vacates the judgment below,
ante, at 4. It does so only after deciding, as it must to
exercise jurisdiction, that in light of the uncertainty in
California law, the case is not moot. Ante, at 2–3;
ASARCO Inc. v. Kadish, 490 U. S. 605, 621, n. 1
(1989) (when a case coming from a state court becomes moot, this
Court “lack[s] jurisdiction and thus also the power to
disturb the state court’s judgment”); see also City
News & Novelty, Inc. v. Waukesha, 531 U. S. 278,
283–284 (2001).

															   In deciding the threshold mootness issue, a
complicated problem in its own right, the Court strains to reach
the validity of the injunction after Cochran’s death. Whether
the injunction remains valid in these changed circumstances is
neither the reason we took this case nor an important question, but
merely a matter of case-specific error correction. Petitioners
remain free to seek relief on both constitutional and state-law
grounds in the California courts. And, if the injunction is
invalid, they need not obey it: California does not recognize the
“collateral bar” rule, and thus permits collateral
challenges to injunctions in contempt proceedings. People
v. Gonzalez, 12 Cal. 4th 804, 818, 910 P. 2d 1366,
1375 (1996) (a person subject to an injunction may challenge
“the constitutional validity of the injunction when it is
issued, or . . . reserve that claim until a violation of the
injunction is charged as a contempt of court”). The
California courts can resolve the matter and, given the new state
of affairs, might very well adjudge the case moot or the injunction
invalid on state-law grounds rather than the constitutional grounds
the Court rushes to embrace. As a prudential matter, the better
course is to avoid passing unnecessarily on the constitutional
question. See Ashwander v. TVA, 297 U. S. 288,
345–348 (1936) (Brandeis, J., concurring).

															   The Court purports to save petitioners the
uncertainty of possible enforcement of the injunction, and thereby
to prevent any chill on their First Amendment rights, by vacating
the decision below. But what the Court gives with the left hand it
takes with the right, for it only invites further litigation by
pronouncing that “injunctive relief may still be
warranted,” conceding that “any appropriate party
remains free to ask for such relief,” and “express[ing]
no view on the constitutional validity of any such new
relief.” Ante, at 4. What the Court means by
“any appropriate party” is unclear. Perhaps the Court
means Sylvia Dale Mason Cochran, Cochran’s widow, who has
taken his place in this suit. Or perhaps it means the Cochran firm,
which has never been a party to this case, but may now (if
“appropriate”) intervene and attempt to enjoin the
defamation of a now-deceased third party. The Court’s
decision invites the doubts it seeks to avoid. Its decision is
unnecessary and potentially self-defeating. The more prudent course
is to dismiss the writ as improvidently granted. I respectfully
dissent.

													
