::SCDB_caseID:: 2004-058
::decision_cite:: 545 U.S. 175 (2005)
::decision_name::  Bradshaw v. Stumpf
::decision_year:: 2005
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 


545 U. S. ____ (2005)
BRADSHAW V. STUMPF
545 U. S. ____ (2005)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 04-637

															MARGARET BRADSHAW, WARDEN, PETITIONER v.
JOHN DAVID STUMPF

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the sixth circuit

															[June 13, 2005]

															   Justice Thomas, with whom Justice
Scalia joins, concurring.

															   I join the Court’s opinion.
As the Court notes, the State has not argued that Teague
v. Lane, 489 U. S. 288 (1989),
forecloses Stumpf ’s claim that the prosecution’s
presentation of inconsistent theories violated his right to due
process. Ante, at 6. With certain narrow exceptions,
Teague precludes federal courts from granting habeas
petitioners relief on the basis of “new” rules of
constitutional law established after their convictions become
final. 489 U. S., at 310 (plurality opinion). This Court has never
hinted, much less held, that the Due Process Clause prevents a
State from prosecuting defendants based on inconsistent theories.
Moreover, it is “[a] threshold question in every habeas case
… whether the court is obligated to apply the
Teague rule to the defendant’s claim,” and
“if the State does argue that the defendant seeks the benefit
of a new rule of constitutional law, the court must apply
Teague before considering the merits of the claim.”
Horn v. Banks, 536 U. S. 266, 271
(2002) (per curiam) (internal quotation marks omitted).
The State also has not argued that Stumpf procedurally defaulted
his due process claim, even though it appears that Stumpf never
presented this argument to the Ohio courts. Stumpf did not even
raise the inconsistent-theories claim in his first federal habeas
filings. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 134a–140a. Instead, the
District Court raised the issue for Stumpf sU. S.onte, and
ordered supplemental briefing on the point. See App. 97–98.
The Court’s opinion does not preclude the State from
advancing either of these procedural defenses on remand in support
of Stumpf’s death sentence.

															   Moreover, I agree with the Court that
“Stumpf has never provided an explanation of how the
prosecution’s postplea use of inconsistent arguments could
have affected the knowing, voluntary, and intelligent nature of his
plea.” Ante, at 11. Similar reasoning applies to
Stumpf ’s sentence. Stumpf equally has never explained
how the prosecution’s use of postsentence inconsistent
arguments—which were based on evidence unavailable until
after Stumpf was sentenced—could have affected the
reliability or procedural fairness of his death sentence. At most,
the evidence and purportedly inconsistent theory presented at
Wesley’s trial would constitute newly discovered evidence
casting doubt on the reliability of Stumpf ’s death
sentence, a sort of claim that our precedents and this
Nation’s traditions have long foreclosed, see
Herrera v. Collins, 506 U. S. 390,
408–417 (1993); id., at 427–428 (Scalia, J.,
concurring). The Bill of Rights guarantees vigorous adversarial
testing of guilt and innocence and conviction only by proof beyond
a reasonable doubt. These guarantees are more than sufficient to
deter the State from taking inconsistent positions; a prosecutor
who argues inconsistently risks undermining his case, for opposing
counsel will bring the conflict to the factfinder’s
attention. See ante, at 2 (Souter, J., concurring) (noting
that Wesley’s jury was informed that Stumpf had already been
sentenced to death for the crime).

													
