::SCDB_caseID:: 2004-075
::decision_cite:: 545 U.S. 677 (2005)
::decision_name::  Van Orden v. Perry
::decision_year:: 2005
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 


BREYER, J., CONCURRING IN JUDGMENT
VAN ORDEN V. PERRY
545 U. S. ____ (2005)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 03-1500

															THOMAS VAN ORDEN, PETITIONER v. RICK
PERRY, in his official capacity as GOVERNOR OF TEXAS and CHAIRMAN,
STATE PRESERVATION BOARD, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 27, 2005]

															   Justice Breyer, concurring in the
judgment.

															   In School Dist. of Abington
Township v. Schempp, 374 U. S. 203 (1963),
Justice Goldberg, joined by Justice Harlan, wrote, in respect to
the First Amendment’s Religion Clauses, that there is
“no simple and clear measure which by precise application can
readily and invariably demark the permissible from the
impermissible.” Id., at 306 (concurring opinion).
One must refer instead to the basic purposes of those Clauses. They
seek to “assure the fullest possible scope of religious
liberty and tolerance for all.” Id., at 305. They
seek to avoid that divisiveness based upon religion that promotes
social conflict, sapping the strength of government and religion
alike. Zelman v. Simmons-Harris, 536 U. S. 639,
717–729 (2002) (Breyer, J., dissenting). They seek to
maintain that “separation of church and state” that has
long been critical to the “peaceful dominion that religion
exercises in [this] country,” where the “spirit of
religion” and the “spirit of freedom” are
productively “united,” “reign[ing]
together” but in separate spheres “on the same
soil.” A. de Tocqueville, Democracy in America 282–283
(1835) (H. Mansfield & D. Winthrop transls. and eds. 2000).
They seek to further the basic principles set forth today by
Justice O’Connor in her concurring opinion in McCreary
County v. American Civil Liberties Union of Ky.,
post, at 1.

															   The Court has made clear, as Justices Goldberg
and Harlan noted, that the realization of these goals means that
government must “neither engage in nor compel religious
practices,” that it must “effect no favoritism among
sects or between religion and nonreligion,” and that it must
“work deterrence of no religious belief.”
Schempp, supra, at 305 (concurring opinion); see
also Lee v. Weisman, 505 U. S. 577, 587
(1992); Everson v. Board of Ed. of Ewing,
330 U. S. 1,
15–16 (1947). The government must avoid excessive
interference with, or promotion of, religion. See generally
County of Allegheny v. American Civil Liberties Union,
Greater Pittsburgh Chapter, 492 U. S. 573,
593–594 (1989); Zelman, supra, at
723–725 (Breyer, J., dissenting). But the Establishment
Clause does not compel the government to purge from the public
sphere all that in any way partakes of the religious. See,
e.g., Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U. S. 783 (1983).
Such absolutism is not only inconsistent with our national
traditions, see, e.g., Lemon v.
Kurtzman, 403 U. S. 602, 614
(1971); Lynch v. Donnelly, 465 U. S. 668,
672–678 (1984), but would also tend to promote the kind of
social conflict the Establishment Clause seeks to avoid.

															   Thus, as Justices Goldberg and Harlan pointed
out, the Court has found no single mechanical formula that can
accurately draw the constitutional line in every case. See
Schempp, 374 U. S., at 306 (concurring opinion). Where the
Establishment Clause is at issue, tests designed to measure
“neutrality” alone are insufficient, both because it is
sometimes difficult to determine when a legal rule is
“neutral,” and because

															“untutored devotion to the concept of
neutrality can lead to invocation or approval of results which
partake not simply of that noninterference and noninvolvement with
the religious which the Constitution commands, but of a brooding
and pervasive devotion to the secular and a passive, or even
active, hostility to the religious.” Ibid.
   Neither can this
Court’s other tests readily explain the Establishment
Clause’s tolerance, for example, of the prayers that open
legislative meetings, see Marsh, supra; certain references to,
and invocations of, the Deity in the public words of public
officials; the public references to God on coins, decrees, and
buildings; or the attention paid to the religious objectives of
certain holidays, including Thanksgiving. See, e.g.,
Lemon, supra, at 612–613 (setting forth what has
come to be known as the “Lemon test”);
Lynch, supra, at 687 (O’Connor, J.,
concurring) (setting forth the “endorsement test”);
Capitol Square Review and Advisory Bd. v.
Pinette, 515 U. S. 753, 800, n. 5
(1995) (Stevens, J., dissenting) (agreeing that an
“endorsement test” should apply but criticizing its
“reasonable observer” standard); Santa Fe
Independent School Dist. v. Doe, 530 U. S. 290, 319
(2000) (Rehnquist, C. J., dissenting) (noting
Lemon’s “checkered career in the decisional
law of this Court”); County of Allegheny,
supra, at 655–656 (Kennedy, J., joined by Rehnquist,
C. J., and White and Scalia, JJ., concurring in judgment in part
and dissenting in part) (criticizing the Lemon test).

															   If the relation between government and
religion is one of separation, but not of mutual hostility and
suspicion, one will inevitably find difficult borderline cases. And
in such cases, I see no test-related substitute for the exercise of
legal judgment. See Schempp, supra, at 305 (Goldberg, J.,
concurring); cf. Zelman, supra, at 726–728
(Breyer, J., dissenting) (need for similar exercise of judgment
where quantitative considerations matter). That judgment is not a
personal judgment. Rather, as in all constitutional cases, it must
reflect and remain faithful to the underlying purposes of the
Clauses, and it must take account of context and consequences
measured in light of those purposes. While the Court’s prior
tests provide useful guideposts—and might well lead to the
same result the Court reaches today, see,
e.g., Lemon, supra, at 612–613;
Capitol Square, supra, at 773–783 (O’Connor,
J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment)—no exact
formula can dictate a resolution to such fact-intensive
cases.
   The case before us is a borderline
case. It concerns a large granite monument bearing the text of the
Ten Commandments located on the grounds of the Texas State Capitol.
On the one hand, the Commandments’ text undeniably has a
religious message, invoking, indeed emphasizing, the Diety. On the
other hand, focusing on the text of the Commandments alone cannot
conclusively resolve this case. Rather, to determine
the message that the text here conveys, we must examine how the
text is used. And that inquiry requires us to consider the
context of the display.
   In certain contexts, a
display of the tablets of the Ten Commandments can convey not
simply a religious message but also a secular moral message (about
proper standards of social conduct). And in certain contexts, a
display of the tablets can also convey a historical message (about
a historic relation between those standards and the law)—a
fact that helps to explain the display of those tablets in dozens
of courthouses throughout the Nation, including the Supreme Court
of the United States. See generally App. to Brief for United States
as Amicus Curiae 1a–7a.
   Here the tablets have
been used as part of a display that communicates not simply a
religious message, but a secular message as well. The circumstances
surrounding the display’s placement on the capitol grounds
and its physical setting suggest that the State itself intended the
latter, nonreligious aspects of the tablets’ message to
predominate. And the monument’s 40-year history on the Texas
state grounds indicates that that has been its effect.

   The group
that donated the monument, the Fraternal Order of Eagles, a private
civic (and primarily secular) organization, while interested in the
religious aspect of the Ten Commandments, sought to highlight the
Commandments’ role in shaping civic morality as part of that
organization’s efforts to combat juvenile delinquency. See
1961 Tex. Gen. Laws 1995. The Eagles’ consultation with a
committee composed of members of several faiths in order to find a
nonsectarian text underscores the group’s ethics-based
motives. See Brief for Respondents 5–6, and n. 9. The
tablets, as displayed on the monument, prominently acknowledge that
the Eagles donated the display, a factor which, though not
sufficient, thereby further distances the State itself from the
religious aspect of the Commandments’
message.
   The
physical setting of the monument, moreover, suggests little or
nothing of the sacred. See Appendix A, infra. The monument
sits in a large park containing 17 monuments and 21 historical
markers, all designed to illustrate the “ideals” of
those who settled in Texas and of those who have lived there since
that time. Tex. H. Con. Res. 38, 77th Leg. (2001); see Appendix B,
infra. The setting does not readily lend itself to
meditation or any other religious activity. But it does provide a
context of history and moral ideals. It (together with the
display’s inscription about its origin) communicates to
visitors that the State sought to reflect moral principles,
illustrating a relation between ethics and law that the
State’s citizens, historically speaking, have endorsed. That
is to say, the context suggests that the State intended the
display’s moral message—an illustrative message
reflecting the historical “ideals” of Texans—to
predominate.
   If these
factors provide a strong, but not conclusive, indication that the
Commandments’ text on this monument conveys a predominantly
secular message, a further factor is determinative here. As far as
I can tell, 40 years passed in which the presence of this monument,
legally speaking, went unchallenged (until the single legal
objection raised by petitioner). And I am not aware of any evidence
suggesting that this was due to a climate of intimidation. Hence,
those 40 years suggest more strongly than can any set
of formulaic tests that few individuals, whatever their system of
beliefs, are likely to have understood the monument as amounting,
in any significantly detrimental way, to a government effort to
favor a particular religious sect, primarily to promote religion
over nonreligion, to “engage in” any “religious
practic[e],” to “compel” any “religious
practic[e],” or to “work deterrence” of any
“religious belief.” Schempp, 374 U. S., at 305
(Goldberg, J., concurring). Those 40 years suggest that the public
visiting the capitol grounds has considered the religious aspect of
the tablets’ message as part of what is a broader moral and
historical message reflective of a cultural
heritage.
   This case, moreover, is distinguishable from
instances where the Court has found Ten Commandments displays
impermissible. The display is not on the grounds of a public
school, where, given the impressionability of the young, government
must exercise particular care in separating church and state. See,
e.g., Weisman, 505 U. S., at 592; Stone
v. Graham, 449 U. S. 39 (1980)
(per curiam). This case also differs from McCreary
County, where the short (and stormy) history of the courthouse
Commandments’ displays demonstrates the substantially
religious objectives of those who mounted them, and the effect of
this readily apparent objective upon those who view them. See,
post, at 21–25 (opinion of the Court). That history
there indicates a governmental effort substantially to promote
religion, not simply an effort primarily to reflect, historically,
the secular impact of a religiously inspired document. And, in
today’s world, in a Nation of so many different religious and
comparable nonreligious fundamental beliefs, a more contemporary
state effort to focus attention upon a religious text is certainly
likely to prove divisive in a way that this longstanding,
pre-existing monument has not.
   For these reasons, I believe that the Texas
display—serving a mixed but primarily nonreligious purpose,
not primarily “advanc[ing]” or “inhibit[ing]
religion,” and not creating an “excessive government
entanglement with religion,”—might satisfy this
Court’s more formal Establishment Clause tests.
Lemon, 403 U. S., at 612–613 (internal quotation
marks omitted); see also Capitol Square, 515 U. S., at
773–783 (O’Connor, J., concurring in part and
concurring in judgment). But, as I have said, in reaching the
conclusion that the Texas display falls on the permissible side of
the constitutional line, I rely less upon a literal application of
any particular test than upon consideration of the basic purposes
of the First Amendment’s Religion Clauses themselves. This
display has stood apparently uncontested for nearly two
generations. That experience helps us understand that as a
practical matter of degree this display is unlikely to
prove divisive. And this matter of degree is, I believe, critical
in a borderline case such as this
one.
   At the same time, to reach a contrary
conclusion here, based primarily upon on the religious nature of
the tablets’ text would, I fear, lead the law to exhibit a
hostility toward religion that has no place in our Establishment
Clause traditions. Such a holding might well encourage disputes
concerning the removal of longstanding depictions of the Ten
Commandments from public buildings across the Nation. And it could
thereby create the very kind of religiously based divisiveness that
the Establishment Clause seeks to avoid. Zelman, 536 U.
S., at 717–729 (Breyer, J.,
dissenting).
   Justices Goldberg and Harlan concluded in
Schempp that
“[t]he First Amendment does not prohibit practices which
by any realistic measure create none of the dangers which it is
designed to prevent and which do not so directly or substantially
involve the state in religious exercise or in the favoring of
religion as to have meaningful and practical impact.” 374 U.
S., at 308 (concurring opinion).
That kind of practice is what we have here. I recognize the
danger of the slippery slope. Still, where the Establishment Clause
is at issue, we must “distinguish between real threat and
mere shadow.” Ibid. Here, we have only the
shadow.
   In light of these considerations, I cannot
agree with today’s plurality’s analysis. See,
e.g., ante, at 3–4, n. 3, 6–9.
Nor can I agree with Justice Scalia’s dissent in McCreary
County, post, at 1. I do agree with Justice
O’Connor’s statement of principles in McCreary
County, post, at 1, though I disagree with her evaluation of
the evidence as it bears on the application of those principles to
this case.
   I concur in the judgment of the
Court.
[Graphic omitted:
see printed opinion.]

