::SCDB_caseID:: 2004-078
::decision_cite:: 545 U.S. 844 (2005)
::decision_name::  McCreary County v. ACLU of Kentucky
::decision_year:: 2005
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 


SCALIA, J., DISSENTING
MCCREARY COUNTY V. AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIESUNION OF KY.
545 U. S. ____ (2005)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 03-1693

															McCREARY COUNTY, KENTUCKY, et al., PETI-
TIONERS v. AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION OF KENTUCKY
et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the sixth circuit

															[June 27, 2005]

															   Justice Scalia, with whom The
Chief Justice and Justice Thomas join, and with whom Justice
Kennedy joins as to Parts II and III, dissenting.

															   I would uphold McCreary County
and Pulaski County, Kentucky’s (hereinafter Counties)
displays of the Ten Commandments. I shall discuss first, why the
Court’s oft repeated assertion that the government cannot
favor religious practice is false; second, why today’s
opinion extends the scope of that falsehood even beyond prior
cases; and third, why even on the basis of the Court’s false
assumptions the judgment here is wrong.

															I

															A

															   On September 11, 2001 I was
attending in Rome, Italy an international conference of judges and
lawyers, principally from Europe and the United States. That night
and the next morning virtually all of the participants watched, in
their hotel rooms, the address to the Nation by the President of
the United States concerning the murderous attacks upon the Twin
Towers and the Pentagon, in which thousands of Americans had been
killed. The address ended, as Presidential addresses often do, with
the prayer “God bless America.” The next afternoon I
was approached by one of the judges from a European country, who,
after extending his profound condolences for my country’s
loss, sadly observed “How I wish that the Head of State of my
country, at a similar time of national tragedy and distress, could
conclude his address ‘God bless ______.’ It is of
course absolutely forbidden.”

															   That is one model of the
relationship between church and state—a model spread across
Europe by the armies of Napoleon, and reflected in the Constitution
of France, which begins “France is [a] . . . secular . . .
Republic.” France Const., Art. 1, in 7 Constitutions of the
Countries of the World, p. 1 (G. Flanz ed. 2000). Religion is
to be strictly excluded from the public forum. This is not, and
never was, the model adopted by America. George Washington added to
the form of Presidential oath prescribed by Art. II, §1,
cl. 8, of the Constitution, the concluding words “so
help me God.” See Blomquist, The Presidential Oath, the
American National Interest and a Call for Presiprudence, 73 UMKC
L. Rev. 1, 34 (2004). The Supreme Court under John Marshall
opened its sessions with the prayer, “God save the United
States and this Honorable Court.” 1 C. Warren, The Supreme
Court in United States History 469 (rev. ed. 1926). The First
Congress instituted the practice of beginning its legislative
sessions with a prayer. Marsh v. Chambers,
463
U. S. 783, 787 (1983). The same week that Congress submitted
the Establishment Clause as part of the Bill of Rights for
ratification by the States, it enacted legislation providing for
paid chaplains in the House and Senate. Id., at 788. The
day after the First Amendment was proposed, the same Congress that
had proposed it requested the President to proclaim “ a
day of public thanksgiving and prayer, to be observed, by
acknowledging, with grateful hearts, the many and signal favours of
Almighty God.” See H. R. Jour., 1st Cong., 1st Sess. 123
(1826 ed.); see also Sen. Jour., 1st Sess., 88 (1820 ed.).
President Washington offered the first Thanksgiving Proclamation
shortly thereafter, devoting November 26, 1789 on behalf of the
American people “ ‘to the service of that great
and glorious Being who is the beneficent author of all the good
that is, that was, or that will be,’ ” Van
Orden v. Perry, ante, at 7–8
(plurality opinion) (quoting President Washington’s first
Thanksgiving Proclamation), thus beginning a tradition of offering
gratitude to God that continues today. See Wallace v.
Jaffree, 472 U. S. 38, 100–103 (1985)
(Rehnquist, J., dissenting).[Footnote 1] The same Congress also reenacted the Northwest
Territory Ordinance of 1787, 1 Stat. 50, Article III of which
provided: “Religion, morality, and knowledge, being necessary
to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the
means of education shall forever be encouraged.”
Id., at 52, n. (a). And of course the First
Amendment itself accords religion (and no other manner of belief)
special constitutional protection.

															   These actions of our First President and
Congress and the Marshall Court were not idiosyncratic; they
reflected the beliefs of the period. Those who wrote the
Constitution believed that morality was essential to the well-being
of society and that encouragement of religion was the best way to
foster morality. The “fact that the Founding Fathers believed
devotedly that there was a God and that the unalienable rights of
man were rooted in Him is clearly evidenced in their writings, from
the Mayflower Compact to the Constitution itself.” School
Dist. of Abington Township v. Schempp, 374 U. S. 203, 213
(1963). See Underkuffler-Freund, The Separation of the Religious
and the Secular: A Foundational Challenge to First-Amendment
Theory, 36 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 837, 896–918 (1995).
President Washington opened his Presidency with a prayer, see
Inaugural Addresses of the Presidents of the United States 1, 2
(1989), and reminded his fellow citizens at the conclusion of it
that “reason and experience both forbid us to expect that
National morality can prevail in exclusion of religious
principle.” Farewell Address (1796), reprinted in 35 Writings
of George Washington 229 (J. Fitzpatrick ed. 1940). President John
Adams wrote to the Massachusetts Militia, “we have no
government armed with power capable of contending with human
passions unbridled by morality and religion. … Our
Constitution was made only for a moral and religious people. It is
wholly inadequate to the government of any other.” Letter
(Oct. 11, 1798), reprinted in 9 Works of John Adams 229 (C. Adams
ed. 1971). Thomas Jefferson concluded his second inaugural address
by inviting his audience to pray:

															“I shall need, too, the favor of that Being
in whose hands we are, who led our fathers, as Israel of old, from
their native land and planted them in a country flowing with all
the necessaries and comforts of life; who has covered our infancy
with His providence and our riper years with His wisdom and power
and to whose goodness I ask you to join in supplications with me
that He will so enlighten the minds of your servants, guide their
councils, and prosper their measures that whatsoever they do shall
result in your good, and shall secure to you the peace, friendship,
and approbation of all nations.” Inaugural Addresses of the
Presidents of the United States, at 18, 22–23.

															James Madison, in his first inaugural address,
likewise placed his confidence “in the guardianship and
guidance of that Almighty Being whose power regulates the destiny
of nations, whose blessings have been so conspicuously dispensed to
this rising Republic, and to whom we are bound to address our
devout gratitude for the past, as well as our fervent supplications
and best hopes for the future.” Id., at 25, 28.

															   Nor have the views of our people
on this matter significantly changed. Presidents continue to
conclude the Presidential oath with the words “so help me
God.” Our legislatures, state and national, continue to open
their sessions with prayer led by official chaplains. The sessions
of this Court continue to open with the prayer “God save the
United States and this Honorable Court.” Invocation of the
Almighty by our public figures, at all levels of government,
remains commonplace. Our coinage bears the motto “IN GOD WE
TRUST.” And our Pledge of Allegiance contains the
acknowledgment that we are a Nation “under God.” As one
of our Supreme Court opinions rightly observed, “We are a
religious people whose institutions presuppose a Supreme
Being.” Zorach v. Clauson, 343 U. S. 306, 313
(1952), repeated with approval in Lynch v.
Donnelly, 465 U. S. 668, 675
(1984); Marsh, 463 U. S., at 792; Abington Township,
supra, at 213.

															   With all of this reality (and
much more) staring it in the face, how can the Court
possibly assert that “ ‘the First
Amendment mandates governmental neutrality between …
religion and nonreligion,’ ” ante, at 11,
and that “[m]anifesting a purpose to favor . . . adherence to
religion generally,” ante, at 12, is
unconstitutional? Who says so? Surely not the words of the
Constitution. Surely not the history and traditions that reflect
our society’s constant understanding of those words. Surely
not even the current sense of our society, recently reflected in an
Act of Congress adopted unanimously by the Senate and with
only 5 nays in the House of Representatives, see 148 Cong. Rec.
S6226 (2002); id., at H7186, criticizing a Court of
Appeals opinion that had held “under God” in the Pledge
of Allegiance unconstitutional. See Act of Nov. 13, 2002,
§§1(9), 2(a), 3(a), 116 Stat. 2057, 2058, 2060–2061
(reaffirming the Pledge of Allegiance and the National Motto
(“In God We Trust”) and stating that the Pledge of
Allegiance is “clearly consistent with the text and intent of
the Constitution”). Nothing stands behind the Court’s
assertion that governmental affirmation of the society’s
belief in God is unconstitutional except the Court’s own
say-so, citing as support only the unsubstantiated say-so of
earlier Courts going back no farther than the mid-20th century. See
ante, at 11, citing Corporation of Presiding Bishop of
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter&nbhyph;day Saints v.
Amos, 483
U. S. 327, 335 (1987), in turn citing Lemon v.
Kurtzman, 403 U. S. 602, 612
(1971), in turn citing Board of Ed. of Central School Dist. No.
1 v. Allen, 392 U. S. 236, 243
(1968), in turn quoting Abington Township, supra,
at 222, in turn citing Everson v. Board of Ed. of
Ewing, 330 U. S.
1, 15 (1947).[Footnote 2]
And it is, moreover, a thoroughly discredited say-so. It is
discredited, to begin with, because a majority of the Justices on
the current Court (including at least one Member of today’s
majority) have, in separate opinions, repudiated the brain-spun
“Lemon test” that embodies the supposed
principle of neutrality between religion and irreligion. See
Lamb’s Chapel v. Center Moriches Union Free
School Dist., 508 U. S. 384,
398–399 (1993) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment)
(collecting criticism of Lemon); Van Orden,
ante, at 1, 6 (Thomas, J., concurring); Board of Ed.
of Kiryas Joel Village School Dist. v. Grumet,
512 U. S. 687,
720 (1994) (O’Connor, J., concurring in part and concurring
in judgment); County of Allegheny v. American Civil
Liberties Union, Greater Pittsburgh Chapter, 492 U. S. 573,
655–656, 672–673 (1989) (Kennedy, J., concurring in
judgment in part and dissenting in part); Wallace, 472 U.
S., at 112 (Rehnquist, J., dissenting); see also Committee for
Public Ed. and Religious Liberty v. Regan, 444 U. S. 646, 671
(1980) (Stevens, J., dissenting) (disparaging “the sisyphean
task of trying to patch together the ‘blurred, indistinct,
and variable barrier’ described in Lemon”).
And it is discredited because the Court has not had the courage (or
the foolhardiness) to apply the neutrality principle
consistently.

															   What distinguishes the rule of law from the
dictatorship of a shifting Supreme Court majority is the absolutely
indispensable requirement that judicial opinions be grounded in
consistently applied principle. That is what prevents judges from
ruling now this way, now that—thumbs up or thumbs
down—as their personal preferences dictate. Today’s
opinion forthrightly (or actually, somewhat less than forthrightly)
admits that it does not rest upon consistently applied principle.
In a revealing footnote, ante, at 11, n. 10, the
Court acknowledges that the “Establishment Clause
doctrine” it purports to be applying “lacks the comfort
of categorical absolutes.” What the Court means by this
lovely euphemism is that sometimes the Court chooses to decide
cases on the principle that government cannot favor religion, and
sometimes it does not. The footnote goes on to say that “[i]n
special instances we have found good reason” to dispense with
the principle, but “[n]o such reasons present themselves
here.” Ibid. It does not identify all of those
“special instances,” much less identify the “good
reason” for their existence.

															   I have cataloged elsewhere the variety of
circumstances in which this Court—even after its
embrace of Lemon’s stated prohibition of such
behavior—has approved government action “undertaken
with the specific intention of improving the position of
religion,” Edwards v. Aguillard, 482 U. S. 578, 616 (1987) (Scalia, J.,
dissenting). See id., 616–618. Suffice it to say
here that when the government relieves churches from the obligation
to pay property taxes, when it allows students to absent themselves
from public school to take religious classes, and when it exempts
religious organizations from generally applicable prohibitions of
religious discrimination, it surely means to bestow a benefit on
religious practice—but we have approved it. See
Amos, supra, at 338 (exemption from federal
prohibition of religious discrimination by employers);
Walz v. Tax Comm’n of City of New York,
397 U. S. 664,
673 (1970) (property tax exemption for church property);
Zorach, 343 U. S., at 308, 315 (law permitting students to
leave public school for the purpose of receiving religious
education). Indeed, we have even approved (post-Lemon)
government-led prayer to God. In Marsh v.
Chambers, supra, the Court upheld the Nebraska
State Legislature’s practice of paying a chaplain to lead it
in prayer at the opening of legislative sessions. The Court
explained that “[t]o invoke Divine guidance on a public body
entrusted with making the laws is not . . . an
‘establishment’ of religion or a step toward
establishment; it is simply a tolerable acknowledgment of beliefs
widely held among the people of this country.” 463 U. S., at
792. (Why, one wonders, is not respect for the Ten Commandments a
tolerable acknowledgment of beliefs widely held among the people of
this country?)

															   The only “good reason” for
ignoring the neutrality principle set forth in any of these cases
was the antiquity of the practice at issue. See Marsh,
supra, at 786–792, 794; Walz,
supra, at 676–680. That would be a good reason for
finding the neutrality principle a mistaken interpretation of the
Constitution, but it is hardly a good reason for letting an
unconstitutional practice continue. We did not hide behind that
reason in Reynolds v. Sims, 377 U. S. 533 (1964),
which found unconstitutional bicameral state legislatures of a sort
that had existed since the beginning of the Republic. And almost
monthly, it seems, the Court has not shrunk from invalidating
aspects of criminal procedure and penology of similar vintage. See,
e.g., Deck v. Missouri, 544 U. S. ___,
___ (2005) (slip op., at 10–11) (invalidating practice of
shackling defendants absent “special circumstances”);
id., at ___ (slip op., at 7–11) (Thomas, J.,
dissenting); Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. ___, ___
(2005) (slip op., at 14) (invalidating practice of executing
under-18-year-old offenders); id., at ___ (slip op., at 2,
n. 1) (Scalia, J., dissenting). What, then, could be the
genuine “good reason” for occasionally ignoring the
neutrality principle? I suggest it is the instinct for
self-preservation, and the recognition that the Court, which
“has no influence over either the sword or the purse,”
The Federalist No. 78, p. 412 (J. Pole ed. 2005), cannot go too far
down the road of an enforced neutrality that contradicts both
historical fact and current practice without losing all that
sustains it: the willingness of the people to accept its
interpretation of the Constitution as definitive, in preference to
the contrary interpretation of the democratically elected
branches.

															   Besides appealing to the demonstrably false
principle that the government cannot favor religion over
irreligion, today’s opinion suggests that the posting of the
Ten Commandments violates the principle that the government cannot
favor one religion over another. See ante, at 19; see also
Van Orden, ante, at 11–13 (Stevens, J.,
dissenting). That is indeed a valid principle where public aid or
assistance to religion is concerned, see Zelman v.
Simmons-Harris, 536 U. S. 639, 652
(2002), or where the free exercise of religion is at issue,
Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye, Inc. v. Hialeah,
508 U. S. 520,
532–533 (1993); id., at 557–558 (Scalia, J.,
concurring in part and concurring in judgment), but it necessarily
applies in a more limited sense to public acknowledgment of the
Creator. If religion in the public forum had to be entirely
nondenominational, there could be no religion in the public forum
at all. One cannot say the word “God,” or “the
Almighty,” one cannot offer public supplication or
thanksgiving, without contradicting the beliefs of some people that
there are many gods, or that God or the gods pay no attention to
human affairs. With respect to public acknowledgment of religious
belief, it is entirely clear from our Nation’s historical
practices that the Establishment Clause permits this disregard of
polytheists and believers in unconcerned deities, just as it
permits the disregard of devout atheists. The Thanksgiving
Proclamation issued by George Washington at the instance of the
First Congress was scrupulously nondenominational—but it was
monotheistic. [Footnote 3] In Marsh v. Chambers, supra,
we said that the fact the particular prayers offered in the
Nebraska Legislature were “in the Judeo-Christian
tradition,” id., at 793, posed no additional
problem, because “there is no indication that the prayer
opportunity has been exploited to proselytize or advance any one,
or to disparage any other, faith or belief,” id., at
794–795.
   Historical practices thus
demonstrate that there is a distance between the acknowledgment of
a single Creator and the establishment of a religion. The former
is, as Marsh v. Chambers put it, “a
tolerable acknowledgment of beliefs widely held among the people of
this country.” Id., at 792. The three most popular
religions in the United States, Christianity, Judaism, and
Islam—which combined account for 97.7% of all
believers—are monotheistic. See U. S. Dept. of Commerce,
Bureau of Census, Statistical Abstract of the United States:
2004–2005, p. 55 (124th ed. 2004) (Table No. 67). All of
them, moreover (Islam included), believe that the Ten Commandments
were given by God to Moses, and are divine prescriptions for a
virtuous life. See 13 Encyclopedia of Religion 9074 (2d ed. 2005);
The Qur’an 104 (M. Haleem trans. 2004). Publicly honoring the
Ten Commandments is thus indistinguishable, insofar as
discriminating against other religions is concerned, from publicly
honoring God. Both practices are recognized across such a broad and
diverse range of the population—from Christians to
Muslims—that they cannot be reasonably understood as a
government endorsement of a particular religious
viewpoint.[Footnote
4]
B
   A few remarks are
necessary in response to the criticism of this dissent by the
Court, as well as Justice Stevens’ criticism in the related
case of Van Orden v. Perry, ante, p. 1.
Justice Stevens’ writing is largely devoted to an
attack upon a straw man. “[R]eliance on early religious
proclamations and statements made by the Founders is …
problematic,” he says, “because those views were not
espoused at the Constitutional Convention in 1787 nor enshrined in
the Constitution’s text.” Van Orden,
ante, at 18–19 (dissenting opinion) (footnote
omitted). But I have not relied upon (as he and the Court in this
case do) mere “proclamations and statements” of the
Founders. I have relied primarily upon official acts and official
proclamations of the United States or of the component branches of
its Government, including the First Congress’s beginning of
the tradition of legislative prayer to God, its appointment of
congressional chaplains, its legislative proposal of a Thanksgiving
Proclamation, and its reenactment of the Northwest Territory
Ordinance; our first President’s issuance of a Thanksgiving
Proclamation; and invocation of God at the opening of sessions of
the Supreme Court. The only mere “proclamations and
statements” of the Founders I have relied upon were
statements of Founders who occupied federal office, and spoke in at
least a quasi-official capacity—Washington’s prayer at
the opening of his Presidency and his Farewell Address, President
John Adams’ letter to the Massachusetts Militia, and
Jefferson’s and Madison’s inaugural addresses. The
Court and Justice Stevens, by contrast, appeal to no official or
even quasi-official action in support of their view of the
Establishment Clause—only James Madison’s Memorial and
Remonstrance Against Religious Assessments, written before the
federal Constitution had even been proposed, two letters written by
Madison long after he was President, and the quasi-official
inaction of Thomas Jefferson in refusing to issue a
Thanksgiving Proclamation. See ante, at 30–31;
Van Orden, ante, at 19 (Stevens, J., dissenting).
The Madison Memorial and Remonstrance, dealing as it does with
enforced contribution to religion rather than public acknowledgment
of God, is irrelevant; one of the letters is utterly ambiguous as
to the point at issue here, and should not be read to contradict
Madison’s statements in his first inaugural address, quoted
earlier; even the other letter does not disapprove public
acknowledgment of God, unless one posits (what Madison’s own
actions as President would contradict) that reference to God
contradicts “the equality of all religious
sects.” See Letter from James Madison to Edward Livingston
(July 10, 1822), in 5 The Founders’ Constitution
105–106 (P. Kurland & R. Lerner eds. 1987). And as to
Jefferson: the notoriously self-contradicting Jefferson did not
choose to have his nonauthorship of a Thanksgiving Proclamation
inscribed on his tombstone. What he did have inscribed was his
authorship of the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, a
governmental act which begins “Whereas Almighty God hath
created the mind free . . . .” Va. Code Ann. §57–1
(Lexis 2003).
   It is no answer
for Justice Stevens to say that the understanding that these
official and quasi-official actions reflect was not
“enshrined in the Constitution’s text.” Van
Orden, ante, at 18 (dissenting opinion). The
Establishment Clause, upon which Justice Stevens would rely,
was enshrined in the Constitution’s text, and these
official actions show what it meant. There were doubtless
some who thought it should have a broader meaning, but those views
were plainly rejected. Justice Stevens says that reliance on these
actions is “bound to paint a misleading picture,”
Van Orden, ante, at 19, but it is hard to see
why. What is more probative of the meaning of the Establishment
Clause than the actions of the very Congress that proposed it, and
of the first President charged with observing it?
   Justice Stevens also appeals
to the undoubted fact that some in the founding generation thought
that the Religion Clauses of the First Amendment should have a
narrower meaning, protecting only the Christian religion
or perhaps only Protestantism. See Van Orden,
ante, at 20–22. I am at a loss to see how this helps
his case, except by providing a cloud of obfuscating smoke. (Since
most thought the Clause permitted government invocation of
monotheism, and some others thought it permitted government
invocation of Christianity, he proposes that it be construed not to
permit any government invocation of religion at all.) At any rate,
those narrower views of the Establishment Clause were as clearly
rejected as the more expansive ones. Washington’s First
Thanksgiving Proclamation is merely an example. All of the
actions of Washington and the First Congress upon which I have
relied, virtually all Thanksgiving Proclamations throughout our
history,[Footnote 5] and
all the other examples of our Government’s favoring
religion that I have cited, have invoked God, but not Jesus
Christ.[Footnote 6] Rather than
relying upon Justice Stevens’ assurance that “[t]he
original understanding of the type of ‘religion’ that
qualified for constitutional protection under the First amendment
certainly did not include . . . followers of Judaism and
Islam,” Van Orden, ante, at 22; see also
ante, at 32–33, I would prefer to take the word of
George Washington, who, in his famous Letter to the Hebrew
Congregation of Newport, Rhode Island, wrote that,
“All possess alike liberty of
conscience and immunities of citizenship. It is now no more that
toleration is spoken of, as if it was by the indulgence of one
class of people, that another enjoyed the exercise of their
inherent natural rights.” 6 The Papers of George Washington,
Presidential Series 285 (D. Twohig et al. eds.
1996).
The letter concluded, by the way,
with an invocation of the one God:
“May the father of all
mercies scatter light and not darkness in our paths, and make us
all in our several vocations useful here, and in his own due time
and way everlastingly happy.” Ibid.
   Justice Stevens
says that if one is serious about following the original
understanding of the Establishment Clause, he must repudiate its
incorporation into the Fourteenth Amendment, and hold that it does
not apply against the States. See Van Orden,
ante, at 24–26 (dissenting opinion). This is more
smoke. Justice Stevens did not feel that way last Term, when he
joined an opinion insisting upon the original meaning of the
Confrontation Clause, but nonetheless applying it against the State
of Washington. See Crawford v. Washington,
541 U. S. 36
(2004). The notion that incorporation empties the incorporated
provisions of their original meaning has no support in either
reason or precedent.
   Justice Stevens argues that
original meaning should not be the touchstone anyway, but that we
should rather “expoun[d] the meaning of constitutional
provisions with one eye towards our Nation’s history and the
other fixed on its democratic aspirations.” Van
Orden, ante, at 27–28 (dissenting opinion).
This is not the place to debate the merits of the “living
Constitution,” though I must observe that Justice
Stevens’ quotation from McCulloch v.
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 407 (1819), refutes rather than
supports that approach.[Footnote
7]    Even assuming, however, that the meaning
of the Constitution ought to change according to “democratic
aspirations,” why are those aspirations to be found in
Justices’ notions of what the Establishment Clause ought to
mean, rather than in the democratically adopted dispositions of our
current society? As I have observed above, numerous provisions of
our laws and numerous continuing practices of our people
demonstrate that the government’s invocation of God (and
hence the government’s invocation of the Ten Commandments) is
unobjectionable—including a statute enacted by Congress
almost unanimously less than three years ago, stating that
“under God” in the Pledge of Allegiance is
constitutional, see 116 Stat., at 2058. To ignore all this is not
to give effect to “democratic aspirations” but to
frustrate them.
   Finally, I must
respond to Justice Stevens’ assertion that I would
“marginaliz[e] the belief systems of more than 7 million
Americans” who adhere to religions that are not monotheistic.
Van Orden, ante, at 13–14, n. 18
(dissenting opinion). Surely that is a gross exaggeration. The
beliefs of those citizens are entirely protected by the Free
Exercise Clause, and by those aspects of the Establishment Clause
that do not relate to government acknowledgment of the Creator.
Invocation of God despite their beliefs is permitted not because
nonmonotheistic religions cease to be religions recognized by the
religion clauses of the First Amendment, but because governmental
invocation of God is not an establishment. Justice Stevens fails to
recognize that in the context of public acknowledgments of God
there are legitimate competing interests: On the one hand,
the interest of that minority in not feeling
“excluded”; but on the other, the interest of the
overwhelming majority of religious believers in being able to give
God thanks and supplication as a people, and with respect
to our national endeavors. Our national tradition has resolved that
conflict in favor of the majority.[Footnote 8] It is not for this Court to change a
disposition that accounts, many Americans think, for the phenomenon
remarked upon in a quotation attributed to various authors,
including Bismarck, but which I prefer to associate with Charles de
Gaulle: “God watches over little children, drunkards, and the
United States of America.”
II
   As bad as the
Lemon test is, it is worse for the fact that, since its
inception, its seemingly simple mandates have been manipulated to
fit whatever result the Court aimed to achieve. Today’s
opinion is no different. In two respects it modifies Lemon
to ratchet up the Court’s hostility to religion. First, the
Court justifies inquiry into legislative purpose, not as an end
itself, but as a means to ascertain the appearance of the
government action to an “ ‘objective
observer.’ ” Ante, at 13. Because in the
Court’s view the true danger to be guarded against is that
the objective observer would feel like an “outside[r]”
or “not [a] full membe[r] of the political community,”
its inquiry focuses not on the actual purpose of
government action, but the “purpose apparent from government
action.” Ante, at 12. Under this approach,
even if a government could show that its actual purpose was not to
advance religion, it would presumably violate the Constitution as
long as the Court’s objective observer would think otherwise.
See Capitol Square Review and Advisory Bd. v.
Pinette, 515 U.S. 753, 776–777 (1995)
(O’Connor, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment)
(stating that “when the reasonable observer would view a
government practice as endorsing religion, . . . it is our
duty to hold the practice invalid,” even if the law
at issue was neutral and the benefit conferred on the religious
entity was incidental).
   I have remarked
before that it is an odd jurisprudence that bases the
unconstitutionality of a government practice that does not
actually advance religion on the hopes of the government
that it would do so. See Edwards, 482 U. S., at
639. But that oddity pales in comparison to the one invited by
today’s analysis: the legitimacy of a government action with
a wholly secular effect would turn on the misperception of
an imaginary observer that the government officials behind the
action had the intent to advance religion.
   Second, the Court replaces
Lemon’s requirement that the government have
“a secular . . . purpose,” 403 U. S., at 612
(emphasis added), with the heightened requirement that the secular
purpose “predominate” over any purpose to advance
religion. Ante, at 15–17. The Court treats this
extension as a natural outgrowth of the longstanding requirement
that the government’s secular purpose not be a sham, but
simple logic shows the two to be unrelated. If the
government’s proffered secular purpose is not genuine, then
the government has no secular purpose at all. The new demand that
secular purpose predominate contradicts Lemon’s more
limited requirement, and finds no support in our cases. In all but
one of the five cases in which this Court has invalidated a
government practice on the basis of its purpose to benefit
religion, it has first declared that the statute was motivated
entirely by the desire to advance religion. See Santa Fe
Independent School Dist. v. Doe, 530 U. S. 290, 308–309 (2000)
(dismissing the school district’s proffered secular purposes
as shams); Wallace, 472 U. S., at 56 (finding
“no secular purpose”) (emphasis added);
Stone v. Graham, 449 U. S. 39, 41 (1980)
(per curiam) (finding that “Kentucky’s statute
requiring the posting of the Ten Commandments in public school
rooms has no secular legislative purpose”) (emphasis
added); Epperson v. Arkansas, 393 U. S. 97,
107–109 (1968). In Edwards, supra, the
Court did say that the state action was invalid because its
“primary” or “preeminent” purpose was to
advance a particular religious belief, 482 U. S., at 590, 593, 594,
but that statement was unnecessary to the result, since the Court
rejected the State’s only proffered secular purpose as a
sham. See id., at 589.
   I have urged that
Lemon’s purpose prong be abandoned, because (as I
have discussed in Part I) even an exclusive purpose to
foster or assist religious practice is not necessarily
invalidating. But today’s extension makes things even worse.
By shifting the focus of Lemon’s purpose prong from
the search for a genuine, secular motivation to the hunt for a
predominantly religious purpose, the Court converts what has in the
past been a fairly limited inquiry into a rigorous review of the
full record.[Footnote 9] Those
responsible for the adoption of the Religion Clauses would surely
regard it as a bitter irony that the religious values they designed
those Clauses to protect have now become so distasteful to
this Court that if they constitute anything more than a subordinate
motive for government action they will invalidate it.
III
   Even accepting
the Court’s Lemon-based premises, the displays at
issue here were constitutional.
A
   To any person who
happened to walk down the hallway of the McCreary or Pulaski County
Courthouse during the roughly nine months when the Foundations
Displays were exhibited, the displays must have seemed
unremarkable—if indeed they were noticed at all. The walls of
both courthouses were already lined with historical documents and
other assorted portraits; each Foundations Display was exhibited in
the same format as these other displays and nothing in the record
suggests that either County took steps to give it greater
prominence.
   Entitled
“The Foundations of American Law and Government
Display,” each display consisted of nine equally sized
documents: the original version of the Magna Carta, the Declaration
of Independence, the Bill of Rights, the Star Spangled Banner, the
Mayflower Compact of 1620, a picture of Lady Justice, the National
Motto of the United States (“In God We Trust”), the
Preamble to the Kentucky Constitution, and the Ten Commandments.
The displays did not emphasize any of the nine documents in any
way: The frame holding the Ten Commandments was of the same size
and had the same appearance as that which held each of the other
documents. See 354 F. 3d 438, 443 (CA6 2003).
   Posted with the documents was
a plaque, identifying the display, and explaining that it
“contains documents that played a significant role in the
foundation of our system of law and government.”
Ibid. The explanation related to the Ten Commandments was
third in the list of nine and did not serve to distinguish it from
the other documents. It stated:
   “The Ten
Commandments have profoundly influenced the formation of Western
legal thought and the formation of our country. That influence is
clearly seen in the Declaration of Independence, which declared
that, ‘We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men
are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with
certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and
the pursuit of Happiness.’ The Ten Commandments provide the
moral background of the Declaration of Independence and the
foundation of our legal tradition.” Ibid.
B
   On its face, the
Foundations Displays manifested the purely secular purpose that the
Counties asserted before the District Court: “to display
documents that played a significant role in the foundation of our
system of law and government.” Affidavit of Judge Jimmie
Green in Support of Defendants’ Opposition to
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Contempt or, in the Alternative, for
Supplemental Preliminary Injunction in Civ. A. No. 99–507 (ED
Ky.), p. 2. That the Displays included the Ten Commandments did not
transform their apparent secular purpose into one of impermissible
advocacy for Judeo-Christian beliefs. Even an isolated display of
the Decalogue conveys, at worst, “an equivocal message,
perhaps of respect for Judaism, for religion in general, or for
law.” Allegheny County, 492 U. S., at 652 (Stevens,
J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). But when the Ten
Commandments appear alongside other documents of secular
significance in a display devoted to the foundations of American
law and government, the context communicates that the Ten
Commandments are included, not to teach their binding nature as a
religious text, but to show their unique contribution to the
development of the legal system. See id., at
652–653. This is doubly true when the display is introduced
by a document that informs passersby that it “contains
documents that played a significant role in the foundation of our
system of law and government.”
   The same result
follows if the Ten Commandments display is viewed in light of the
government practices that this Court has countenanced in the past.
The acknowledgment of the contribution that religion in general,
and the Ten Commandments in particular, have made to our
Nation’s legal and governmental heritage is surely no more of
a step towards establishment of religion than was the practice of
legislative prayer we approved in Marsh v.
Chambers, 463
U. S. 783 (1983), and it seems to be on par with the inclusion
of a cr&ccaron;che or a menorah in a “Holiday”
display that incorporates other secular symbols, see
Lynch, supra, at 679–680; Allegheny
County, supra, at 621. The parallels between this
case and Marsh and Lynch are sufficiently
compelling that they ought to decide this case, even under the
Court’s misguided Establishment Clause
jurisprudence.[Footnote
10]
   Acknowledgment of the
contribution that religion has made to our Nation’s legal and
governmental heritage partakes of a centuries-old tradition.
Members of this Court have themselves often detailed the degree to
which religious belief pervaded the National Government during the
founding era. See Lynch, supra, at 674–678;
Marsh, supra, at 786–788; Lee v.
Weisman, 505 U. S. 577, 633–636 (1992)
(Scalia, J., dissenting); Wallace, 472 U. S. at
100–106 (Rehnquist, J., dissenting); Engel v.
Vitale, 370
U. S. 421, 446–450, and n. 3 (1962) (Stewart, J.,
dissenting). Display of the Ten Commandments is well within the
mainstream of this practice of acknowledgment. Federal, State, and
local governments across the Nation have engaged in such
display.[Footnote 11] The
Supreme Court Building itself includes depictions of Moses with the
Ten Commandments in the Courtroom and on the east pediment of the
building, and symbols of the Ten Commandments “adorn the
metal gates lining the north and south sides of the Courtroom as
well as the doors leading into the Courtroom.” Van
Orden, ante, at 9 (plurality opinion). Similar
depictions of the Decalogue appear on public buildings and
monuments throughout our Nation’s Capital. Ibid. The
frequency of these displays testifies to the popular understanding
that the Ten Commandments are a foundation of the rule of law, and
a symbol of the role that religion played, and continues to play,
in our system of government.
   Perhaps in recognition of the
centrality of the Ten Commandments as a widely recognized symbol of
religion in public life, the Court is at pains to dispel the
impression that its decision will require governments across the
country to sandblast the Ten Commandments from the public square.
See ante, at 26. The constitutional problem, the Court
says, is with the Counties’ purpose in erecting the
Foundations Displays, not the displays themselves. The Court adds
in a footnote: “One consequence of taking account of the
purpose underlying past actions is that the same government action
may be constitutional if taken in the first instance and
unconstitutional if it has a sectarian heritage.”
Ante, at 18, n. 14.
   This inconsistency may be
explicable in theory, but I suspect that the “objective
observer” with whom the Court is so concerned will recognize
its absurdity in practice. By virtue of details familiar only to
the parties to litigation and their lawyers, McCreary and Pulaski
Counties, Kentucky, and Rutherford County, Tennessee, have been
ordered to remove the same display that appears in courthouses from
Mercer County, Kentucky to Elkhart County, Indiana. Compare
American Civil Liberties Union of Tenn. v. Rutherford
County, 209 F. Supp. 2d 799, 808–809 (MD Tenn.
2002) (holding Foundations Display to be unconstitutional based on
prior actions of county commission) with Books v.
Elkhart County, 401 F. 3d 857, 869 (CA7 2005)
(sustaining Foundations Display as “secular . . . in its
purpose and effect”); American Civil Liberties Union of
Ky. v. Mercer County, 219 F. Supp. 2d 777,
787–789 (ED Ky. 2002) (rejecting Establishment Clause
challenge to an identical Foundations Display and distinguishing
McCreary County on the ground that the County’s
purpose had not been “tainted with any prior history”).
Displays erected in silence (and under the direction of good legal
advice) are permissible, while those hung after discussion and
debate are deemed unconstitutional. Reduction of the Establishment
Clause to such minutiae trivializes the Clause’s protection
against religious establishment; indeed, it may inflame religious
passions by making the passing comments of every government
official the subject of endless litigation.
C
   In any event, the
Court’s conclusion that the Counties exhibited the
Foundations Displays with the purpose of promoting religion is
doubtful. In the Court’s view, the impermissible motive was
apparent from the initial displays of the Ten Commandments all by
themselves: When that occurs, the Court says, “a religious
object is unmistakable.” Ante, at 21. Surely that
cannot be. If, as discussed above, the Commandments have a proper
place in our civic history, even placing them by themselves can be
civically motivated—especially when they are placed, not in a
school (as they were in the Stone case upon which the
Court places such reliance), but in a courthouse. Cf. Van
Orden, ante, at 4 (Breyer, J., concurring in
judgment) (“The circumstances surrounding the display’s
placement on the capital grounds, and its physical setting suggest
that the State itself intended the … nonreligious aspects of
the tablets’ message to predominate”). And the fact
that at the posting of the exhibit a clergyman was present is
unremarkable (clergymen taking particular pride in the role of the
Ten Commandments in our civic history); and even more unremarkable
the fact that the clergyman “testified to the certainty of
the existence of God,” ante, at 21.
   The Court has in the past
prohibited government actions that “proselytize or advance
any one, or . . . disparage any other, faith or belief,” see
Marsh, 463 U. S., at 794–795, or that apply some
level of coercion (though I and others have disagreed about the
form that coercion must take), see, e.g., Lee v.
Weisman, 505 U. S., at 592 (prayer at high-school
graduation invalid because of “subtle coercive
pressure”); id., at 642 (Scalia, J., dissenting).
The passive display of the Ten Commandments, even standing alone,
does not begin to do either. What Justice Kennedy said of the
cr&ccaron;che in Allegheny County is equally true of
the Counties’ original Ten Commandments displays:
“No one was compelled to
observe or participate in any religious ceremony or activity. [T]he
count[ies] [did not] contribut[e] significant amounts of tax money
to serve the cause of one religious faith. [The Ten Commandments]
are purely passive symbols of [the religious foundation for many of
our laws and governmental institutions]. Passersby who disagree
with the message conveyed by th[e] displays are free to ignore
them, or even to turn their backs, just as they are free to do when
they disagree with any other form of government speech.” 492
U. S., at 664 (opinion concurring in judgment in part and
dissenting in part).
Nor is it the case that a solo
display of the Ten Commandments advances any one faith. They are
assuredly a religious symbol, but they are not so closely
associated with a single religious belief that their display can
reasonably be understood as preferring one religious sect over
another. The Ten Commandments are recognized by Judaism,
Christianity, and Islam alike as divinely given. See 13
Encyclopedia of Religion 9074 (2d ed. 2005).[Footnote 12]
   The Court also points to the
Counties’ second displays, which featured a number of
statements in historical documents reflecting a religious
influence, and the resolutions that accompanied their erection, as
evidence of an impermissible religious purpose.[Footnote 13] In the Court’s view,
“[t]he [second] display’s unstinting focus . . . on
religious passages, show[s] that the Counties were posting the
Commandments precisely because of their sectarian content.”
Ante, at 22. No, all it necessarily shows is that the
exhibit was meant to focus upon the historic role of religious
belief in our national life—which is entirely permissible.
And the same can be said of the resolution. To forbid any
government focus upon this aspect of our history is to display what
Justice Goldberg called “untutored devotion to the concept of
neutrality,” Abington Township, 374 U. S., at 306
(concurring opinion), that would commit the Court (and the Nation)
to a revisionist agenda of secularization.
   Turning at last to the
displays actually at issue in this case, the Court faults the
Counties for not repealing the resolution expressing what
the Court believes to be an impermissible intent. Under these
circumstances, the Court says, “no reasonable observer could
swallow the claim that the Counties had cast off the objective so
unmistakable in the earlier displays.” Ante, at 24.
Even were I to accept all that the Court has said before, I would
not agree with that assessment. To begin with, of course, it is
unlikely that a reasonable observer would even have been
aware of the resolutions, so there would be nothing to
“cast off.” The Court implies that the Counties may
have been able to remedy the “taint” from the old
resolutions by enacting a new one. See ante, at
23–24. But that action would have been wholly unnecessary in
light of the explanation that the Counties included with the
displays themselves: A plaque next to the documents informed
all who passed by that each display “contains documents that
played a significant role in the foundation of our system of law
and government.” Additionally, there was no reason for the
Counties to repeal or repudiate the resolutions adopted with the
hanging of the second displays, since they related only to the
second displays. After complying with the
District Court’s order to remove the second displays
“immediately,” and erecting new displays that in
content and by express assertion reflected a different
purpose from that identified in the resolutions, the Counties had
no reason to believe that their previous resolutions would be
deemed to be the basis for their actions.[Footnote 14] After the Counties discovered that the
sentiments expressed in the resolutions could be attributed to
their most recent displays (in oral argument before this Court),
they repudiated them immediately.
   In sum: The
first displays did not necessarily evidence an intent to further
religious practice; nor did the second displays, or the resolutions
authorizing them; and there is in any event no basis for
attributing whatever intent motivated the first and second displays
to the third. Given the presumption of regularity that always
accompanies our review of official action, see supra, at
18–19 n. 9, the Court has identified no evidence of a
purpose to advance religion in a way that is inconsistent with our
cases. The Court may well be correct in identifying the third
displays as the fruit of a desire to display the Ten Commandments,
ante, at 24, but neither our cases nor our history support
its assertion that such a desire renders the fruit
poisonous.
***
   For the foregoing reasons, I would reverse
the judgment of the Court of Appeals.
Footnote 1
 See,
e.g., President’s Thanksgiving Day 2004 Proclamation
(Nov. 23, 2004), available at
http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2004/11/ 20041123-4.html
(all internet materials as visited June 24, 2005 and available in
Clerk of Court’s case file).
Footnote 2
 The
fountainhead of this jurisprudence, Everson v. Board
of Ed. of Ewing, based its dictum that “[n]either a
state nor the Federal Government . . . can pass laws which . . .
aid all religions,” 330 U. S., at 15, on a review of
historical evidence that focused on the debate leading up to the
passage of the Virginia Bill for Religious Liberty, see
id., at 11–13. A prominent commentator of the time
remarked (after a thorough review of the evidence himself) that it
appeared the Court had been “sold . . . a bill of
goods.” Corwin, The Supreme Court as National School Board,
14 Law & Contemp. Prob. 3, 16 (1949).
Footnote 3
 The Court
thinks it “surpris[ing]” and “truly
remarkable” to believe that “the deity the Framers had
in mind” (presumably in all the instances of invocation of
the deity I have cited) “was the God of monotheism.”
Ante, at 32. This reaction would be more comprehensible if
the Court could suggest what other God (in the singular, and with a
capital G) there is, other than “the God of
monotheism." This is not necessarily the Christian God
(though if it were, one would expect Christ regularly to be
invoked, which He is not); but it is inescapably the God
of monotheism.
Footnote 4
 This is not
to say that a display of the Ten Commandments could never
constitute an impermissible endorsement of a particular religious
view. The Establishment Clause would prohibit, for example,
governmental endorsement of a particular version of the Decalogue
as authoritative. Here the display of the Ten Commandments
alongside eight secular documents, and the plaque’s
explanation for their inclusion, make clear that they were not
posted to take sides in a theological dispute.
Footnote 5
 The two
exceptions are the March 23, 1798 proclamation of John Adams, which
asks God “freely to remit all our offenses”
“through the Redeemer of the World,”
http://www.pilgrimhall.org/ThanxProc1789.htm, and the November 17,
1972 proclamation of Richard Nixon, which stated, “From Moses
at the Red Sea to Jesus preparing to feed the multitudes, the
Scriptures summon us to words and deeds of gratitude, even before
divine blessings are fully perceived,” Presidential
Proclamation No. 4170, 37 Fed. Reg. 24647 (1972).
Footnote 6
 Justice
Stevens finds that Presidential inaugural and farewell speeches
(which are the only speeches upon which I have relied) do not
violate the Establishment Clause only because everyone knows that
they express the personal religious views of the speaker, and not
government policy. See Van Orden, ante, at
17–18 (dissenting opinion). This is a peculiar stance for one
who has voted that a student-led invocation at a high school
football game and a rabbi-led invocation at a high school
graduation did constitute the sort of governmental
endorsement of religion that the Establishment Clause forbids. See
Santa Fe Independent School Dist. v. Doe,
530 U. S. 290 (2000); Lee v.
Weisman, 505 U. S. 577
(1992).
Footnote 7
 See Scalia,
Originalism: The Lesser Evil, 57 Cincinnati L. Rev.
852–853 (1989).
Footnote 8
 Nothing so
clearly demonstrates the utter inconsistency of our Establishment
Clause jurisprudence as Justice O’Connor’s stirring
concurrence in the present case. “[W]e do not,” she
says, “count heads before enforcing the First
Amendment.” Ante, at 4. But Justice O’Connor
joined the opinion of the Court in Marsh v.
Chambers, 463
U. S. 783 (1983) which held legislative prayer to be “a
tolerable acknowledgment of beliefs widely held among the people of
this country.” Id., at 792.
Footnote 9
 The
Court’s reflexive skepticism of the government’s
asserted secular purposes is flatly inconsistent with the
deferential approach taken by our previous Establishment Clause
cases. We have repeated many times that, where a court undertakes
the sensitive task of reviewing a government’s asserted
purpose, it must take the government at its word absent compelling
evidence to the contrary. See, e.g., Edwards v.
Aguillard, 482 U. S. 578, 586 (stating that
“the Court is . . . deferential to a State’s
articulation of a secular purpose,” unless that purpose is
insincere or a sham); Mueller v. Allen, 463 U. S. 388,
394–395 (1983) (ascribing the Court’s disinclination to
invalidate government practices under Lemon’s
purpose prong to its “reluctance to attribute
unconstitutional motives to the States, particularly when a
plausible secular purpose for the State’s program may be
discerned from the face of the statute”); see also
Wallace v. Jaffree, 472 U. S. 38, 74 (O’Connor, J.,
concurring in judgment) (“the inquiry into the purpose of the
legislature . . . should be deferential and
limited”).
Footnote 10
 The
Court’s only response is that the inclusion of the Ten
Commandments in a display about the foundations of American law
reflects “a purpose to call on citizens to act in prescribed
ways as a personal response to divine authority,” in a way
that legislative prayer and the inclusion of a cr&ccaron;che in
a Holiday display do not. See ante, at 30, n. 24. That
might be true if the Commandments were displayed by themselves in a
church, or even in someone’s home. It seems to me patently
untrue—given the Decalogue’s “undeniable
historical meaning” as a symbol of the religious foundations
of law, see Van Orden, ante, at 11 (plurality
opinion)—when they are posted in a courthouse display of
historical documents. The observer would no more think himself
“called upon to act” in conformance with the
Commandments than he would think himself called upon to think and
act like William Bradford because of the courthouse posting of the
Mayflower Compact—especially when he is told that
the exhibit consists of documents that contributed to American law
and government.
Footnote 11
 The
significant number of cases involving Ten Commandments displays in
the last two years suggests the breadth of their appearance. See,
e.g., Books v. Elkhart County, 401
F. 3d 857, 858–859 (CA7 2005) (Ten Commandments included
in a display identical to the Foundations display);
Mercier v. Fraternal Order of Eagles, 395
F. 3d 693, 696 (CA7 2005) (Ten Commandments monument in city
park since 1965); Modrovich v. Allegheny County,
385 F. 3d 397, 399 (CA3 2004) (Ten Commandments plaque,
donated in 1918, on wall of Allegheny County Courthouse);
Freethought Soc. of Greater Philadelphia v. Chester
County, 334 F. 3d 247, 249 (CA3 2003) (Ten Commandment
plaque, donated in 1920, on wall of Chester County Courthouse);
King v. Richmond County, 331 F. 3d 1271,
1273–1274 (CA11 2003) (Ten Commandments depicted in county
seal since 1872).
Footnote 12
 Because there
are interpretational differences between faiths and within faiths
concerning the meaning and perhaps even the text of the
Commandments, Justice Stevens maintains that any display
of the text of the Ten Commandments is impermissible because it
“invariably places the [government] at the center of a
serious sectarian dispute.” Van Orden,
ante, at 13 (dissenting opinion). I think not. The
sectarian dispute regarding text, if serious, is not widely known.
I doubt that most religious adherents are even aware that there are
competing versions with doctrinal consequences (I certainly was
not). In any event, the context of the display here could not
conceivably cause the viewer to believe that the government was
taking sides in a doctrinal controversy.
Footnote 13
 Posted less
than a month after respondents filed suit, the second displays
included an excerpt from the Declaration of Independence, the
Preamble to the Kentucky Constitution, a page from the
Congressional Record declaring 1983 to be the Year of the Bible and
the proclamation of President Reagan stating the same, a
proclamation of President Lincoln designating April 30, 1863 as a
National Day of Prayer and Humiliation, an excerpt from
Lincoln’s “Reply to Loyal Colored People of Baltimore
upon Presentation of a Bible” stating that “[t]he Bible
is the best gift God has ever given to man,” and the
Mayflower Compact. 96 F. Supp. 2d 679, 684 (ED Ky., 2000). The
Counties erected the displays in accordance with a resolution
passed by their legislative bodies, authorizing the County-Judge
Executives “to read or post the Ten Commandments as the
precedent legal code upon which the civil and criminal codes of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky are founded,” and to display
alongside the Ten Commandments copies of the documents listed above
“without censorship because of any Christian or religious
references in these writings, documents, and historical
records.” Def. Exh. 1 in Memorandum in Support of
Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss in Civ. A. No. 99–507,
p. 1 (ED Ky.) (hereinafter Def. Exh. 1).
Footnote 14
 Contrary to
the Court’s suggestion, see ante, at 24, n. 20,
it is clear that the resolutions were closely tied to the second
displays, but not to the third. Each of the documents included in
the second displays was authorized by the resolutions, and those
displays, consistent with the resolutions’ direction to
“post the Ten Commandments as the precedent legal code upon
which the civil and criminal codes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky
are founded,” Def. Exh. 1, consisted of a large copy of the
Ten Commandments alongside much smaller framed copies of other
historical, religious documents. The third displays, in contrast,
included documents not mentioned in the resolutions (the Magna
Carta and a picture of Lady Justice) and did not include documents
authorized by the resolutions (correspondence and proclamations of
Abraham Lincoln and the Resolution of Congress declaring 1983 to be
the Year of the Bible).
   The
resolutions also provided that they were to be posted beside the
displays that they authorized. Def. Exh. 1, at 9. Yet
respondents have never suggested the resolutions were posted next
to the third displays, and the record before the Court indicates
that they were not. The photos included in the Appendix show that
the third displays included 10 frames—the nine historical
documents and the prefatory statement explaining the relevance of
each of the documents. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 177a (McCreary
County), 178a (Pulaski County).

