::SCDB_caseID:: 2004-075
::decision_cite:: 545 U.S. 677 (2005)
::decision_name::  Van Orden v. Perry
::decision_year:: 2005
::opinion_author:: Souter
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 


SOUTER, J., DISSENTING
VAN ORDEN V. PERRY
545 U. S. ____ (2005)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 03-1500

															THOMAS VAN ORDEN, PETITIONER v. RICK
PERRY, in his official capacity as GOVERNOR OF TEXAS and CHAIRMAN,
STATE PRESERVATION BOARD, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 27, 2005]

															   Justice Souter, with whom Justice
Stevens and Justice Ginsburg join, dissenting.

															   Although the First
Amendment’s Religion Clauses have not been read to mandate
absolute governmental neutrality toward religion, cf.
Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U. S. 398 (1963),
the Establishment Clause requires neutrality as a general rule,
e.g., Everson v. Board of Ed. of Ewing,
330 U. S. 1, 18
(1947), and thus expresses Madison’s condemnation of
“employ[ing] Religion as an engine of Civil policy,”
Memorial and Remonstrance Against Religious Assessments, 2 Writings
of James Madison 183, 187 (G. Hunt ed. 1901). A governmental
display of an obviously religious text cannot be squared with
neutrality, except in a setting that plausibly indicates that the
statement is not placed in view with a predominant purpose on the
part of government either to adopt the religious message or to urge
its acceptance by others.

															   Until today, only one of our cases addressed
the constitutionality of posting the Ten Commandments,
Stone v. Graham, 449 U. S. 39, 41–42
(1980) (per curiam). A Kentucky statute required posting
the Commandments on the walls of public school classrooms, and the
Court described the State’s purpose (relevant under the
tripartite test laid out in Lemon v. Kurtzman,
403 U. S. 602
(1971)) as being at odds with the obligation of religious
neutrality.

															“The pre-eminent purpose for posting the Ten
Commandments on schoolroom walls is plainly religious in nature.
The Ten Commandments are undeniably a sacred text in the Jewish and
Christian faiths, and no legislative recitation of a supposed
secular purpose can blind us to that fact. The Commandments do not
confine themselves to arguably secular matters, such as honoring
one’s parents, killing or murder, adultery, stealing, false
witness, and covetousness. Rather, the first part of the
Commandments concerns the religious duties of believers:
worshipping the Lord God alone, avoiding idolatry, not using the
Lord’s name in vain, and observing the Sabbath Day.”
449 U. S. at 41–42 (footnote and citations omitted).

															What these observations underscore are the simple
realities that the Ten Commandments constitute a religious
statement, that their message is inherently religious, and that the
purpose of singling them out in a display is clearly the
same.[Footnote 1]

															   Thus, a pedestrian happening upon the monument
at issue here needs no training in religious doctrine to realize
that the statement of the Commandments, quoting God himself,
proclaims that the will of the divine being is the source of
obligation to obey the rules, including the facially secular ones.
In this case, moreover, the text is presented to give particular
prominence to the Commandments’ first sectarian reference,
“I am the Lord thy God.” That proclamation is centered
on the stone and written in slightly larger letters than the
subsequent recitation. To ensure that the religious nature of the
monument is clear to even the most casual passerby, the word
“Lord” appears in all capital letters (as does the word
“am”), so that the most eye-catching segment of the
quotation is the declaration “I AM the LORD thy God.”
App. to Pet. for Cert. 21. What follows, of course, are the rules
against other gods, graven images, vain swearing, and Sabbath
breaking. And the full text of the fifth Commandment puts forward
filial respect as a condition of long life in the land “which
the Lord they God giveth thee.” See ibid. These
“[w]ords … make [the] … religious meaning
unmistakably clear.” County of Allegheny v.
American Civil Liberties Union, Greater Pittsburgh
Chapter, 492 U. S. 573, 598 (1989).

															   To drive the religious point home, and
identify the message as religious to any viewer who failed to read
the text, the engraved quotation is framed by religious symbols:
two tablets with what appears to be ancient script on them, two
Stars of David, and the superimposed Greek letters Chi and Rho as
the familiar monogram of Christ. Nothing on the monument, in fact,
detracts from its religious nature,[Footnote 2] see ibid. (“Here, unlike in
Lynch [v. Donnelly, 465
U. S. 668 (1984)], nothing in the context of the display
detracts from the cr&ccaron;che’s religious
message”), and the plurality does not suggest otherwise. It
would therefore be difficult to miss the point that the government
of Texas[Footnote 3] is telling
everyone who sees the monument to live up to a moral code because
God requires it, with both code and conception of God being rightly
understood as the inheritances specifically of Jews and Christians.
And it is likewise unsurprising that the District Court expressly
rejected Texas’s argument that the State’s purpose in
placing the monument on the capitol grounds was related to the
Commandments’ role as “part of the foundation of modern
secular law in Texas and elsewhere.” App. to Pet. for Cert.
32.

															   The monument’s presentation of the
Commandments with religious text emphasized and
enhanced stands in contrast to any number of perfectly
constitutional depictions of them, the frieze of our own Courtroom
providing a good example, where the figure of Moses stands among
history’s great lawgivers. While Moses holds the tablets of
the Commandments showing some Hebrew text, no one looking at the
lines of figures in marble relief is likely to see a religious
purpose behind the assemblage or take away a religious message from
it. Only one other depiction represents a religious leader, and the
historical personages are mixed with symbols of moral and
intellectual abstractions like Equity and Authority. See County
of Allegheny, supra, at 652 (Stevens, J., concurring
in part and dissenting in part). Since Moses enjoys no especial
prominence on the frieze, viewers can readily take him to be there
as a lawgiver in the company of other lawgivers; and the viewers
may just as naturally see the tablets of the Commandments (showing
the later ones, forbidding things like killing and theft, but
without the divine preface) as background from which the concept of
law emerged, ultimately having a secular influence in the history
of the Nation. Government may, of course, constitutionally call
attention to this influence, and may post displays or erect
monuments recounting this aspect of our history no less than any
other, so long as there is a context and that
context is historical. Hence, a display of the Commandments
accompanied by an exposition of how they have influenced modern law
would most likely be constitutionally unobjectionable.[Footnote 4] And the Decalogue could, as
Stone suggested, be integrated constitutionally into a
course of study in public schools. Stone, 449 U.
S., at 42.[Footnote
5]
   Texas seeks to
take advantage of the recognition that visual symbol and written
text can manifest a secular purpose in secular company, when it
argues that its monument (like Moses in the frieze) is not alone
and ought to be viewed as only 1 among 17 placed on the 22 acres
surrounding the state capitol. Texas, indeed, says that the Capitol
grounds are like a museum for a collection of exhibits, the kind of
setting that several Members of the Court have said can render the
exhibition of religious artifacts permissible, even though in other
circumstances their display would be seen as meant to convey a
religious message forbidden to the State. County of
Allegheny, 492 U. S., at 595 (opinion of Blackmun,
J., joined by Stevens, J.); Lynch v. Donnelly,
465
U. S. 668, 692 (1984) (O’Connor, J., concurring). So, for
example, the Government of the United States does not violate the
Establishment Clause by hanging Giotto’s Madonna on the wall
of the National Gallery.
   But 17 monuments
with no common appearance, history, or esthetic role scattered over
22 acres is not a museum, and anyone strolling around the lawn
would surely take each memorial on its own terms without any
dawning sense that some purpose held the miscellany together more
coherently than fortuity and the edge of the grass. One monument
expresses admiration for pioneer women. One pays respect to the
fighters of World War II. And one quotes the God of Abraham whose
command is the sanction for moral law. The themes are individual
grit, patriotic courage, and God as the source of Jewish and
Christian morality; there is no common denominator. In like
circumstances, we rejected an argument similar to the
State’s, noting in County of Allegheny that
“[t]he presence of Santas or other Christmas decorations
elsewhere in the . . . [c]ourthouse, and of the nearby gallery
forum, fail to negate the [cr&ccaron;che’s] endorsement
effect. . . . The record demonstrates . . . that the
cr&ccaron;che, with its floral frame, was its own display
distinct from any other decorations or exhibitions in the
building.” 492 U. S., at 598–599, n. 48.[Footnote 6]
   If the
State’s museum argument does nothing to blunt the religious
message and manifestly religious purpose behind it, neither does
the plurality’s reliance on generalities culled from cases
factually different from this one. E.g., ante, at 8
(“We have acknowledged, for example, that ‘religion has
been closely identified with our history and government,’
School Dist. of Abington Township v. Schempp, 374
U. S., at 212, and that ‘[t]he history of man is inseparable
from the history of religion,’ Engel v.
Vitale, 370 U. S. 421, 434 (1962)”). In
fact, it is not until the end of its opinion that the plurality
turns to the relevant precedent of Stone, a case actually
dealing with a display of the Decalogue.
   When the plurality
finally does confront Stone, it tries to avoid the
case’s obvious applicability by limiting its holding to the
classroom setting. The plurality claims to find authority for
limiting Stone’s reach this way in the
opinion’s citations of two school-prayer cases, School
Dist. of Abington Township v. Schempp, 374 U. S. 203 (1963),
and Engel v. Vitale, 370 U. S. 421 (1962). But
Stone relied on those cases for widely applicable notions,
not for any concept specific to schools. The opinion quoted
Schempp’s statements that “it is no defense to
urge that the religious practices here may be relatively minor
encroachments on the First Amendment,” Schempp,
supra, at 225, quoted in Stone, 449 U. S.,
at 42; and that “the place of the Bible as an instrument of
religion cannot be gainsaid,” Schempp, supra, at
224, quoted in Stone, supra, at 41, n. 3. And
Engel was cited to support the proposition that the State
was responsible for displaying the Commandments, even though their
framed, printed texts were bought with private subscriptions.
Stone, supra, at 42 (“[T]he mere posting of
the [Commandments] under the auspices of the legislature provides
the official support of the State Government that the Establishment
Clause prohibits” (omission and internal quotation marks
omitted)). Thus, the schoolroom was beside the point of the
citations, and that is presumably why the Stone Court
failed to discuss the educational setting, as other opinions had
done when school was significant. E.g., Edwards v.
Aguillard, 482 U. S. 578, 584
(1987). Stone did not, for example, speak of
children’s impressionability or their captivity as an
audience in a school class. In fact, Stone’s
reasoning reached the classroom only in noting the lack of support
for the claim that the State had brought the Commandments into
schools in order to “integrat[e] [them] into the school
curriculum.” 449 U. S., at 42. Accordingly, our
numerous prior discussions of Stone have never treated its
holding as restricted to the classroom.[Footnote 7]
   Nor can the
plurality deflect Stone by calling the Texas monument
“a far more passive use of [the Decalogue] than was the case
in Stone, where the text confronted elementary school
students every day.” Ante, at 12. Placing a monument
on the ground is not more “passive” than hanging a
sheet of paper on a wall when both contain the same text to be read
by anyone who looks at it. The problem in
Stone was simply that the State was putting the
Commandments there to be seen, just as the monument’s
inscription is there for those who walk by
it.
   To be
sure, Kentucky’s compulsory-education law meant that the
schoolchildren were forced to see the display every day, whereas
many see the monument by choice, and those who customarily walk the
Capitol grounds can presumably avoid it if they choose. But in my
judgment (and under our often inexact Establishment Clause
jurisprudence, such matters often boil down to judgment, see
ante, at 3–4 (Breyer, J., concurring in judgment)),
this distinction should make no difference. The monument in this
case sits on the grounds of the Texas State Capitol. There is
something significant in the common term “statehouse”
to refer to a state capitol building: it is the civic home of every
one of the State’s citizens. If neutrality in religion means
something, any citizen should be able to visit that civic home
without having to confront religious expressions clearly meant to
convey an official religious position that may be at odds with his
own religion, or with rejection of religion. See County of
Allegheny, 492 U. S., at 626 (O’Connor, J., concurring
in part and concurring in judgment) (“I agree that the
cr&ccaron;che displayed on the Grand Staircase of the Allegheny
County Courthouse, the seat of county government, conveys a message
to nonadherents of Christianity that they are not full members of
the political community … . The display of religious
symbols in public areas of core government buildings runs a special
risk of making religion relevant, in reality or public perception,
to status in the political community” (alteration and
internal quotation marks omitted)).
   Finally, though this too is a point on which
judgment will vary, I do not see a persuasive argument for
constitutionality in the plurality’s observation that Van
Orden’s lawsuit comes “[f]orty years after the
monument’s erection . . . ,” ante, at 2, an
observation that echoes the State’s contention that one fact
cutting in its favor is that “the monument stood … in
Austin . . . for some forty years without generating any
controversy or litigation,” Brief for Respondents 25. It is
not that I think the passage of time is necessarily irrelevant in
Establishment Clause analysis. We have approved framing-era
practices because they must originally have been understood as
constitutionally permissible, e.g., Marsh v.
Chambers, 463 U. S. 783 (1983)
(legislative prayer), and we have recognized that Sunday laws have
grown recognizably secular over time, McGowan v.
Maryland, 366 U. S. 420 (1961). There is also an
analogous argument, not yet evaluated, that ritualistic religious
expression can become so numbing over time that its initial
Establishment Clause violation becomes at some point too diminished
for notice. But I do not understand any of these to be the
State’s argument, which rather seems to be that 40 years
without a challenge shows that as a factual matter the religious
expression is too tepid to provoke a serious reaction and
constitute a violation. Perhaps, but the writer of Exodus chapter
20 was not lukewarm, and other explanations may do better in
accounting for the late resort to the courts. Suing a State over
religion puts nothing in a plaintiff’s pocket and can take a
great deal out, and even with volunteer litigators to supply time
and energy, the risk of social ostracism can be powerfully
deterrent. I doubt that a slow walk to the courthouse, even one
that took 40 years, is much evidentiary help in applying the
Establishment Clause.
   I
would reverse the judgment of the Court of
Appeals.
Footnote 1
 The
clarity of the religious manifestation in Stone was
unaffected by the State’s effort to obscure it: the Kentucky
statute that mandated posting the Commandments in classrooms also
required the addition to every posting of a notation reading,
“[t]he secular application of the Ten Commandments is clearly
seen in its adoption as the fundamental legal code of Western
Civilization and the Common Law of the United States.” 449 U.
S., at 39–40, n. 1.
   In the
present case, the religious purpose was evident on the part of the
donating organization. When the Fraternal Order of Eagles, the
group that gave the monument to the State of Texas, donated
identical monuments to other jurisdictions, it was seeking to
impart a religious message. See Adland v. Russ,
307 F. 3d 471, 475 (CA6 2002) (quoting the Eagles’
statement in a letter written to Kentucky when a monument was
donated to that Commonwealth: “Most of today’s younger
generation either have not seen the Ten Commandments or have not
been taught them. In our opinion the youth of today is in dire need
of learning the simple laws of God . . .”). Accordingly, it
was not just the terms of the moral code, but the proclamation that
the terms of the code were enjoined by God, that the Eagles put
forward in the monuments they donated.
Footnote 2
 That
the monument also surrounds the text of the Commandments with
various American symbols (notably the U. S. flag and a bald eagle)
only underscores the impermissibility of Texas’s actions: by
juxtaposing these patriotic symbols with the Commandments and other
religious signs, the monument sends the message that being American
means being religious (and not just being religious but also
subscribing to the Commandments, i.e., practicing a
monotheistic religion).
Footnote 3
 There
is no question that the State in its own right is broadcasting the
religious message. When Texas accepted the monument from the
Eagles, the state legislature, aware that the Eagles “for the
past several years have placed across the country . . . parchment
plaques and granite monoliths of the Ten Commandments . . . [in
order] to promote youth morality and help stop the alarming
increase in delinquency,” resolved “that the Fraternal
Order of the Eagles of the State of Texas be commended and
congratulated for its efforts and contributions in combating
juvenile delinquency throughout our nation.” App. 97. The
State, then, expressly approved of the Eagles’ proselytizing,
which it made on its own.
Footnote 4
 For
similar reasons, the other displays of the Commandments that the
plurality mentions, ante, at 9, do not run afoul of the
Establishment Clause. The statues of Moses and St. Paul in the Main
Reading Room of the Library of Congress are 2 of 16 set in close
proximity, statues that “represent men illustrious in the
various forms of thought and activity … .” The
Library of Congress: The Art and Architecture of the Thomas
Jefferson Building 127 (J. Cole and H. Reeds eds. 1997). Moses and
St. Paul represent religion, while the other 14 (a group that
includes Beethoven, Shakespeare, Michelangelo, Columbus, and Plato)
represent the nonreligious categories of philosophy, art, history,
commerce, science, law, and poetry. Ibid. Similarly, the
sculpture of the woman beside the Decalogue in the Main Reading
Room is one of 8 such figures “represent[ing] eight
characteristic features of civilized life and thought,” the
same 8 features (7 of them nonreligious) that Moses, St. Paul, and
the rest of the 16 statues represent. Id., at
125.
   The
inlay on the floor of the National Archives Building is one of four
such discs, the collective theme of which is not religious. Rather,
the discs “symbolize the various types of Government records
that were to come into the National Archive.” Letter from
Judith A. Koucky, Archivist, Records Control Section to Catherine
Millard, Oct. 1, 2003 (on file with Clerk of the Court). (The four
categories are war and defense, history, justice, and legislation.
Each disc is paired with a winged figure; the disc containing the
depiction of the Commandments, a depiction that, notably, omits the
Commandments’ text, is paired with a figure representing
legislation. Ibid.)
   As for
Moses’s “prominen[t] featur[ing] in the Chamber of the
United States House of Representatives,” ante, at 9
(plurality opinion), Moses is actually 1 of 23 portraits encircling
the House Chamber, each approximately the same size, having no
religious theme. The portraits depict “men noted in history
for the part they played in the evolution of what has become
American law.” Art in the United States Capitol 282; House
Doc. No. 94–660 (1978). More importantly for purposes of this
case, each portrait consists only of the subject’s face; the
Ten Commandments appear nowhere in Moses’s
portrait.
Footnote 5
 Similarly permissible, though obviously of a different
character, are laws that can be traced back to the Commandments
(even the more religious ones) but are currently supported by
nonreligious considerations. See McCreary County v.
American Civil Liberties Union of Ky., post, at
10 (opinion of the Court) (noting that in McGowan v.
Maryland, 366 U. S. 420 (1961), the Court
“upheld Sunday closing laws on practical secular grounds
after finding that the government had forsaken the religious
purposes motivating centuries-old predecessor
laws”).
Footnote 6
 It is
true that the Commandments monument is unlike the display of the
Commandments considered in the other Ten Commandments case we
decide today, McCreary County. There the Commandments were
posted at the behest of the county in the first instance, whereas
the State of Texas received the monument as a gift from the Eagles,
which apparently conceived of the donation at the suggestion of a
movie producer bent on promoting his commercial film on the Ten
Commandments, Books v. Elkhart, 235 F. 3d
292, 294–295 (CA7 2000), cert. denied, 532 U. S. 1058 (2001).
But this distinction fails to neutralize the apparent expression of
governmental intent to promote a religious message: although the
nativity scene in Allegheny County was donated by the Holy
Name Society, we concluded that “[n]o viewer could reasonably
think that [the scene] occupies [its] location [at the seat of
county government] without the support and approval of the
government.” County of Allegheny v. American
Civil Liberties Union, Greater Pittsburgh Chapter, 492 U. S. 573, 599–600
(1989).
Footnote 7
 In
any event, the fact that we have been, as the plurality says,
“particularly vigilant in monitoring compliance with the
Establishment Clause in elementary and secondary schools,”
ante, at 11, does not of course mean that anything goes
outside the schoolhouse. As cases like County of Allegheny
and Lynch v. Donnelly, 465
U. S. 668 (1984), illustrate, we have also closely scrutinized
government displays of religious symbols. And for reasons discussed
in the text, the Texas monument cannot survive even a relaxed level
of scrutiny.

