::SCDB_caseID:: 2005-016
::decision_cite:: 546 U.S. 189 (2006)
::decision_name::  Evans v. Chavis
::decision_year:: 2006
::opinion_author:: Stevens
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 


STEVENS, J., CONCURRING IN JUDGMENT
EVANS V. CHAVIS
546 U. S. ____ (2006)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 04-721

															MIKE EVANS, ACTING WARDEN, PETITIONER v.
REGINALD CHAVIS

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the ninth circuit

															[January 10, 2006]

															   Justice Stevens, concurring in
the judgment.

															   Today the Court holds that, in
the absence of a clear statement by a California state court that a
petition for habeas corpus was timely or untimely, a federal court
“must itself examine the delay in each case” to
determine whether the filing “was made within what California
would consider a ‘reasonable time.’ ”
Ante, at 8. Contrary to the Court’s admonition in
its next sentence, this is not what we “asked the Circuit to
do in Saffold,” and it is not what “it should
have done.” Ibid. (citing Carey v.
Saffold, 536 U. S. 214 (2002)).

															   The Ninth Circuit’s decision in this
case was both faithful to our decision in Saffold and
consistent with our prior jurisprudence. Instead of endorsing an ad
hoc approach to the interpretation of ambiguous judgments entered
by California courts in the future, I believe we should direct the
Ninth Circuit to apply the straightforward presumptions that I
describe below. Rather than a de novo review of the record
and California law, see ante, at 10–11, it is the
application of these presumptions, buttressed by an independent
error made by the Ninth Circuit, that convinces me that the
judgment must be reversed.

															I

															   As the Court has explained, both
in Saffold and in its opinion today, California’s
postconviction procedures are unlike those employed by most other
States. See 536 U. S., at 221–222; ante, at 1,
2–3. California’s time limit for the filing of a habeas
corpus petition in a noncapital case is more forgiving and more
flexible than that employed by most States. See Saffold,
536 U. S., at 222. Generally, such a petition “must be filed
within a reasonable time after the petitioner or counsel knew, or
with due diligence should have known, the facts underlying the
claim as well as the legal basis of the claim.” In re
Harris, 5 Cal. 4th 813, 828, n. 7, 855 P. 2d 391, 398, n.
7 (1993). And the State Supreme Court apparently may exercise its
jurisdiction to decide the merits of a petition for habeas corpus
at any time whatsoever. See Cal. Const., Art. VI, §10 (giving
California Supreme Court original jurisdiction over habeas
petitions); In re Clark, 5 Cal. 4th 750, 764–765,
855 P. 2d 729, 738 (1993) (noting procedural rules governing habeas
petitions are judicially created).

															   It is the existence of this flexible,
discretionary timeliness standard in noncapital cases[Footnote 1] that gave rise to both the issue
presented in Saffold and the issue the Court addresses
today. In Saffold, we considered whether a habeas petition
filed in the California Supreme Court 412 months after the lower state court made its
decision was “pending” (and therefore tolled the
federal statute of limitations in the Antiterrorism and Effective
Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA)) during that period. See 536 U.
S., at 217. After concluding that a state habeas application is
pending during the interval between an adverse lower court decision
and the filing in the California Supreme Court, and that
California’s virtually unique system made no difference for
purposes of tolling AEDPA’s statute of limitations, we were
faced with the question whether the state habeas petition in that
case had been timely filed. See id., at 221, 223,
225.
   Rather than
answering the question ourselves, we remanded the case to the Court
of Appeals with instructions that it do so. Id., at 226.
We also explained why the answer was not entirely clear. In its
order the California Supreme Court had stated that it had denied
the petition both “on the merits and for lack of
diligence.” Id., at 218 (internal quotation
marks omitted). We pointed out that the fact that the State Supreme
Court had reached the merits did not preclude the possibility that
its alternative basis for decision—“lack of
diligence”—expressed a conclusion that the
412-month delay was unreasonable
and therefore that it had considered the petition untimely as a
matter of state law. On the other hand, we also recognized that
“lack of diligence” might have referred to the
respondent’s earlier failure to file his first postconviction
petition more promptly, “a matter irrelevant to the question
whether his application was ‘pending’ during the
412-month interval.”
Id., at 226. Our opinion requested the Court of Appeals to
resolve the ambiguity, noting that it might be “appropriate
to certify a question to the California Supreme Court for the
purpose of seeking clarification in this area of state law.”
Id., at 226–227.[Footnote 2]
   On remand
in Saffold, after reviewing three fairly contemporaneous
California Supreme Court orders that involved delays of 7 months,
18 months, and 15 months without mentioning any “lack of
diligence,” the Court of Appeals came to the quite reasonable
conclusion that the State Supreme Court’s “lack of
diligence” notation in the order denying Saffold’s
petition referred to an earlier 5-year delay that was irrelevant to
the tolling issue rather than to the 412-month delay that had preceded his most recent filing. See
Saffold v. Carey, 312 F. 3d 1031, 1035 (CA9
2002). It also noted “that we have not been asked to provide
any bright-line rule for determining what constitutes
‘unreasonable’ delay under California’s
indeterminate timeliness standard. While such a bright-line rule
would certainly be welcomed, … such an issue is more
appropriately decided by the California Supreme Court or the
California State Legislature.” Id., at 1036,
n. 1.
   As both Judge O’Scannlain—who
wrote for the Court of Appeals—and I understood the rule of
law that animated our remand, it was predicated on the assumption
that the answer to the timeliness question depended on what the
California Supreme Court had actually decided
rather than on any conclusion that the Court of Appeals itself
might reach concerning the reasonableness of the 412-month delay under California law. See
id., at 1034. That assumption, also applied by the Ninth
Circuit here, was consistent with the unequivocal assertion in our
opinion that if the California Supreme Court had “clearly
ruled” that the 412-month
delay was unreasonable, “that would be the end of the
matter,” even if the court had also ruled on the merits.
Saffold, 536 U. S., at
226.
   Similarly, there is no inconsistency between
our conclusion in Saffold that the merits ruling
“does not automatically indicate that the petition
was timely filed,” ante, at 7, and the presumption
applied by the Court of Appeals in this case that an order decided
entirely on the merits indicates that the state court did not find
the petition to be untimely, see App. A to Pet. for Cert. 9,
particularly when California allows the petitioner to advance a
variety of reasons to excuse a late filing, see, e.g.,
In re Robbins, 18 Cal. 4th 770, 780–782, 959 P. 2d
311, 318 (1998). Our rejection of the words “ ‘on
the merits’ ” as “an absolute
bellwether” was made in a case in which the order itself
indicated that the state court might have considered the petition
untimely. Saffold, 536 U. S., at 226. Given that ambiguous
order, Saffold did not foreclose the Court of
Appeals’ presumption that, by dismissing a petition solely on
the merits, the state court necessarily found the filing to be
timely. The Court of Appeals’ opinion in this case was
therefore completely consistent with both our holding and our
reasoning in
Saffold.
II
   The Court of Appeals’
opinion was also consistent with our prior habeas jurisprudence.
While the present question requires us to apply the tolling
provision of a federal statute, application of that provision
ultimately rests on state-law procedural rules. See 28 U.
S. C. §2244(d)(2) (tolling federal statute while
“properly filed” application for state postconviction
relief is pending). To the extent that a possibly decisive
state-law requirement is at issue, application of AEDPA’s
tolling provision is analogous to the question whether denial of a
state postconviction petition rested upon an adequate and
independent state
ground.
   Faced with such a question,
it has been our general practice to try to determine the actual
basis for the state court’s decision rather than to resolve
the state-law issue ourselves. The mere fact that a federal
petitioner failed to abide by a state procedural rule does not
prevent a federal court from resolving a federal claim unless the
state court actually relied on the state procedural bar “as
an independent basis for its disposition of the case.”
Harris v. Reed, 489 U. S. 255,
261–262 (1989) (internal quotation marks omitted). This
practice is consistent with the rule of Michigan v.
Long, 463
U. S. 1032, 1042 (1983), that unless it is “clear from
the opinion itself” that the state court’s decision
rested on an adequate and independent state ground, we have
appellate jurisdiction to review its resolution of a federal
constitutional question. And in cases in which a state-court order
is silent as to the basis for its decision, we have resorted to a
presumption to reflect the role intended for such orders by the
state court that issued it. See Ylst v.
Nunnemaker, 501 U. S. 797,
803–804
(1991).
   Until today, however, we have not directed
the lower federal courts to decide disputed issues of state
procedural law for themselves instead of focusing on the actual
basis for a state-court ruling. The Ninth Circuit’s decision
in this case was entirely consistent with our past practice, and I
would adhere to that practice in confronting the question whether
habeas petitions advancing federal claims in California courts were
filed within a reasonable time as a matter of California law. Cf.
Brooks v. Walls, 279 F. 3d 518, 522 (CA7
2002) (Easterbrook, J.) (applying Harris and Ylst
to AEDPA’s “properly filed” requirement). The
inquiry, then, should focus on what the state court actually
decided rather than what a federal court believes it could, or
should, have
done.
III
   Determining what the
California Supreme Court has “actually” decided is
sometimes easy and sometimes difficult. Its rulings denying habeas
corpus petitions generally fall into three broad categories: those
expressly deciding the timeliness question, those deciding the
merits without comment on timeliness, and those that do not
disclose the basis for the decision.[Footnote 3] To simplify the inquiry, a straightforward
rule can be applied to each type of
order.
   The easiest cases, of course, are those in
which the state court-order expressly states that a petition was
either untimely or timely. As we have explained, if the state
court’s untimeliness ruling is clear, “that would be
the end of the matter,” even if the court had also ruled on
the merits. Saffold, 536 U. S., at 226. Conversely, an
unequivocal holding that a delay was not unreasonable should be
respected even if a federal judge would have decided the issue
differently.[Footnote 4] The
decision that a petition has been untimely filed need not be
explicitly stated; citation to a case in which a petition was
dismissed as untimely filed certainly would suffice.[Footnote 5] Cf. Brief for Petitioner 27;
Robbins, 18 Cal. 4th, at 814, n. 34, 959 P. 2d, at
340, n. 34 (explaining California’s practice of citing
certain cases for certain
propositions).
   More difficult are those cases in which the
state court rules on the merits without any comment on timeliness.
The Ninth Circuit deals with this situation by applying the
presumption that a ruling on the merits, simpliciter,
means that the state court has concluded that the petition was
timely. The Court today seemingly
assumes—incorrectly—that we rejected that presumption
in Saffold. Even if we did so sub silentio,
however, I am convinced that the Court should now endorse the Ninth
Circuit’s presumption because it is both eminently sensible
as a matter of judicial administration and entirely sound as a
matter of law. Cf. Robbins, 18 Cal. 4th, at 814, n. 34,
959 P. 2d, at 340, n. 34 (explaining that when the State
argues that a procedural bar applies, and the California Supreme
Court’s order does not cite a case imposing that bar, it
means the claim is not barred on the asserted ground). The interest
in the efficient processing of the dockets of overworked federal
judges provides powerful support for relying on a presumption
rather than engaging in de novo review of the
questions whether the length of a delay was excessive, whether the
petitioner’s explanation for the delay would be considered
acceptable by a California court, and whether a nonetheless
unreasonable delay should be excused because the petition raises an
unusually serious constitutional question. Cf. id., at
779–782, 959 P. 2d, at
317–318.
   There are, of course, cases in which the
Ninth Circuit’s presumption may not be accurate. For example,
a state court may find the deficiencies in a claim so clear that it
is easier to deny it on the merits than to decide whether excuses
for an apparently unreasonable delay are sufficient. But whereas
California judges may continue to follow the easier route, under
today’s holding federal judges apparently must answer the
timeliness question no matter how difficult it may be and no matter
how easy it is to resolve the merits. A simple rule, applicable to
all unambiguous rulings on the merits, is surely far wiser than the
novel ad hoc approach that the Court appears to endorse
today.
   A general rule could also apply to the most
difficult situation, which arises when the state court denies a
petition with no explanation or citation whatsoever. Unlike an
order that indicates that a state court has ruled on the merits, a
silent order provides no evidence that the state court considered
and passed upon the timeliness issue. To resolve such cases, I
would adopt a presumption that, if a California court issues an
unexplained order denying a petition filed after a delay of less
than six months, the court considered that petition to be timely;
unexplained orders following a longer delay should be presumed to
be decisions on timeliness grounds. California’s use of a
6-month period for determining presumptive timeliness in
postconviction capital litigation—the only specific time
period mentioned in California’s postconviction
jurisprudence—provides a principled basis for such a
double-barreled presumption. See Cal. Rules of Court Policy
Statement 3, std. 1–1.1 (Deering 2005) (“A petition for
a writ of habeas corpus [in a capital case] will be presumed to be
filed without substantial delay if it is filed within 180 days
after the final due date for the filing of appellant’s reply
brief on the direct appeal …”). Moreover, a
6-month presumption would be fully consistent with our holding in
Saffold that the 412-month delay in that case was not necessarily
unreasonable.[Footnote
6]
IV
    The above standards provide me with two
independently sufficient reasons for concluding that the California
Supreme Court actually decided—not once, but twice—that
the petitions filed by respondent in that court were untimely. In
one order, the State Supreme Court made its finding of untimeliness
explicit; in the other, the 6-month presumption should
control.
   First, as
the Court notes ante, at 5, the California Supreme Court
entered an order denying respondent habeas relief on April 29,
1998, and respondent did not file his federal petition for habeas
corpus until August 30, 2000—more than a year later. The
Court of Appeals found that the federal statute of limitations was
tolled during this 16-month period by a second set of state habeas
petitions that respondent initiated in the California trial court
on January 25, 1999, and that concluded with the entry of an order
by the California Supreme Court on April 28, 2000. See App. A to
Pet. for Cert. 11–12. That finding was
erroneous.
   The
California Supreme Court’s April 28, 2000, order, unlike its
1998 order, was not silent. Instead, the April 2000 order cited
three earlier California Supreme Court cases, two of which stand
for the proposition that a petition has been untimely filed. See
id., at 5; Robbins, 18 Cal. 4th, at 814, n. 34,
959 P. 2d, at 340, n. 34. Although the State did not argue
that respondent’s second habeas filing in the California
Supreme Court was untimely, see App. A to Pet. for Cert. 8,
n. 3, there is not even an arguable basis for disputing that
the California Supreme Court found respondent’s second habeas
petition to have been untimely filed. Given this finding by the
State Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit clearly erred (although not
for the reasons claimed by the
Court).
   Second,
respondent’s November 5, 1997, state habeas petition was
filed with the California Supreme Court more than three years after
the California Court of Appeal denied review. Ante, at 5.
The State Supreme Court denied that petition without explanation.
Ibid. The presumption I described above—that an
unexplained order following a delay longer than six months was
based on the state court’s conclusion that the petition was
untimely—provides me with a sufficient reason for concluding
that respondent’s state habeas petition was not pending
during that 3-year interval. Consequently, respondent’s
federal habeas petition was also untimely and should have been
denied.
   Accordingly, despite my profound
disagreement with the reasoning in the Court’s opinion, I
concur in its
judgment.
Footnote
1
 As
California’s Deputy Attorney General pointed out at oral
argument, this problem does not arise in capital cases because the
California Supreme Court has adopted separate rules for such cases.
See Tr. of Oral Arg. 63. This is significant because, while
prisoners on death row often have an incentive to adopt delaying
tactics, those serving a sentence of imprisonment presumably want
to obtain relief as promptly as
possible.
Footnote
2
 This
approach would apparently prove fruitless. See Tr. of Oral Arg.
31.
Footnote
3
 Orders
resting on alternative grounds, such as the one in Carey
v. Saffold, 536 U. S. 214 (2002), may require
special
consideration.
Footnote
4
 At oral
argument, California’s Deputy Attorney General agreed that if
the California Supreme Court had expressly decided that respondent
Chavis’ state habeas petition included a satisfactory
explanation for the 3-year delay preceding his filing in that
court, but decided against him on the merits, the federal statute
of limitations would have been tolled. See Tr. of Oral Arg.
19–20.
Footnote
5
 As I
point out, infra, at 10, this is such a
case.
Footnote
6
 The
fact that a 6-month presumption would probably lead to the result
that noncapital habeas petitions filed by California prisoners
would be pending for somewhat longer periods than those filed in
other States is attributable to the peculiar features of
California’s postconviction review procedures. It is far
wiser to place the responsibility for that consequence on the
State, which can readily modify its procedures, than unnecessarily
to complicate the work of federal
judges.

