::SCDB_caseID:: 2007-035
::decision_cite:: 553 U.S. 181 (2008)
::decision_name::  Crawford v. Marion County Election Bd.
::decision_year:: 2008
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 


SCALIA, J., CONCURRING IN JUDGMENT
CRAWFORD V. MARION COUNTY ELECTION BD.
553 U. S. ____ (2008)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NOS. 07-21 AND 07-25

															WILLIAM CRAWFORD, et al., PETITIONERS

															07–21   v.
MARION COUNTY ELECTION BOARD
et al.
INDIANA DEMOCRATIC PARTY, et al.,
PETITIONERS

															07–25   v.
TODD ROKITA, INDIANA SECRETARY OF STATE,
et al.
on writs of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the seventh circuit
[April 28, 2008]
   Justice Scalia, with
whom Justice Thomas and Justice Alito join, concurring in the
judgment.

															   The lead opinion assumes petitioners’
premise that the voter-identification law “may have imposed a
special burden on” some voters, ante, at 16, but
holds that petitioners have not assembled evidence to show that the
special burden is severe enough to warrant strict scrutiny,
ante, at 18–19. That is true enough, but for the
sake of clarity and finality (as well as adherence to precedent), I
prefer to decide these cases on the grounds that petitioners’
premise is irrelevant and that the burden at issue is minimal and
justified.

															   To evaluate a law respecting the right to
vote—whether it governs voter qualifications, candidate
selection, or the voting process—we use the approach set out
in Burdick v. Takushi, 504 U. S. 428 (1992). This calls for
application of a deferential “important regulatory
interests” standard for nonsevere, nondiscriminatory
restrictions, reserving strict scrutiny for laws that severely
restrict the right to vote. Id., at 433–434
(internal quotation marks omitted). The lead opinion resists the
import of Burdick by characterizing it as simply adopting
“the balancing approach” of Anderson v.
Celebrezze, 460 U. S. 780 (1983)
(majority opinion of Stevens, J.). See ante, at 6; see
also ante, at 6–7, n. 8. Although
Burdick liberally quoted Anderson,
Burdick forged Anderson’s amorphous
“flexible standard” into something resembling an
administrable rule. See Burdick, supra, at 434. Since
Burdick, we have repeatedly reaffirmed the primacy of its
two-track approach. See Timmons v. Twin Cities Area
New Party, 520
U. S. 351, 358 (1997); Clingman v. Beaver,
544 U. S. 581,
586–587 (2005). “[S]trict scrutiny is appropriate only
if the burden is severe.” Id., at 592. Thus, the
first step is to decide whether a challenged law severely burdens
the right to vote. Ordinary and widespread burdens, such as those
requiring “nominal effort” of everyone, are not severe.
See id., at 591, 593–597. Burdens are severe if they
go beyond the merely inconvenient. See Storer v.
Brown, 415
U. S. 724, 728–729 (1974) (characterizing the law in
Williams v. Rhodes, 393 U. S. 23 (1968), as
“severe” because it was “so burdensome” as
to be “ ‘virtually impossible’ ”
to satisfy).

															   Of course, we have to identify a burden before
we can weigh it. The Indiana law affects different voters
differently, ante, at 14–16, but what petitioners
view as the law’s several light and heavy burdens are no more
than the different impacts of the single burden that the
law uniformly imposes on all voters. To vote in person in Indiana,
everyone must have and present a photo identification that
can be obtained for free. The State draws no classifications, let
alone discriminatory ones, except to establish optional
absentee and provisional balloting for certain poor, elderly, and
institutionalized voters and for religious objectors. Nor are
voters who already have photo identifications exempted from the
burden, since those voters must maintain the accuracy of the
information displayed on the identifications, renew them before
they expire, and replace them if they are lost.

															   The Indiana photo-identification law is a
generally applicable, nondiscriminatory voting regulation, and our
precedents refute the view that individual impacts are relevant to
determining the severity of the burden it imposes. In the course of
concluding that the Hawaii laws at issue in Burdick
“impose[d] only a limited burden on voters’ rights to
make free choices and to associate politically through the
vote,” 504 U. S., at 439, we considered the laws and their
reasonably foreseeable effect on voters
generally. See id., at 436–437. We did not
discuss whether the laws had a severe effect on Mr. Burdick’s
own right to vote, given his particular circumstances. That was
essentially the approach of the Burdick dissenters, who
would have applied strict scrutiny to the laws because of their
effect on “some voters.” See id., at 446
(Kennedy, J., dissenting); see also id., at 448
(“The majority’s analysis ignores the inevitable and
significant burden a write-in ban imposes upon some individual
voters … .” (emphasis added)). Subsequent
cases have followed Burdick’s generalized review of
nondiscriminatory election laws. See, e.g., Timmons,
supra, at 361–362; Clingman, supra, at
590–591, 592–593. Indeed, Clingman’s
holding that burdens are not severe if they are ordinary and
widespread would be rendered meaningless if a single plaintiff
could claim a severe burden.

															   Not all of our decisions predating
Burdick addressed whether a challenged voting regulation
severely burdened the right to vote, but when we began to grapple
with the magnitude of burdens, we did so categorically and did not
consider the peculiar circumstances of individual voters or
candidates. See, e.g., Jenness v.
Fortson, 403 U. S. 431,
438–441 (1971). Thus, in Rosario v.
Rockefeller, 410 U. S. 752 (1973), we
did not link the State’s interest in inhibiting party raiding
with the petitioners’ own circumstances. See id., at
760–762. And in Storer v. Brown, supra, we
observed that the severity of the burden of a regulation should be
measured according to its “nature, extent, and likely
impact.” Id., at 738 (emphasis added). We
therefore instructed the District Court to decide on remand whether
“a reasonably diligent independent candidate [could]
be expected to satisfy the signature requirements, or will it be
only rarely that the unaffiliated candidate will succeed in getting
on the ballot?” Id., at 742 (emphasis added).
Notably, we did not suggest that the District Court should consider
whether one of the petitioners would actually find it more
difficult than a reasonably diligent candidate to obtain the
required signatures. What mattered was the general assessment of
the burden.

															   Insofar as our election-regulation cases rest
upon the requirements of the Fourteenth Amendment, see
Anderson, supra, at 786, n. 7, weighing the
burden of a nondiscriminatory voting law upon each voter and
concomitantly requiring exceptions for vulnerable voters would
effectively turn back decades of equal-protection jurisprudence. A
voter complaining about such a law’s effect on him has no
valid equal-protection claim because, without proof of
discriminatory intent, a generally applicable law with disparate
impact is not unconstitutional. See, e.g.,
Washington v. Davis, 426 U. S. 229, 248
(1976). The Fourteenth Amendment does not regard neutral laws as
invidious ones, even when their burdens purportedly fall
disproportionately on a protected class. A fortiori
it does not do so when, as here, the classes complaining of
disparate impact are not even protected.* See Harris v.
McRae, 448
U. S. 297, 323, and n. 26 (1980) (poverty);
Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc.,
473 U. S. 432,
442 (1985) (disability); Gregory v. Ashcroft,
501 U. S. 452,
473 (1991) (age); cf. Employment Div., Dept. of Human Resources
of Ore. v. Smith, 494 U. S. 872,
878–879 (1990) (First Amendment does not require exceptions
for religious objectors to neutral rules of general
applicability).

															   Even if I thought that stare decisis
did not foreclose adopting an individual-focused approach, I would
reject it as an original matter. This is an area where the dos and
don’ts need to be known in advance of the election, and
voter-by-voter examination of the burdens of voting regulations
would prove especially disruptive. A case-by-case approach
naturally encourages constant litigation. Very few new election
regulations improve everyone’s lot, so the potential
allegations of severe burden are endless. A State reducing the
number of polling places would be open to the complaint it has
violated the rights of disabled voters who live near the closed
stations. Indeed, it may even be the case that some laws already on
the books are especially burdensome for some voters, and one can
predict lawsuits demanding that a State adopt voting over the
Internet or expand absentee balloting.

															   That sort of detailed judicial supervision of
the election process would flout the Constitution’s express
commitment of the task to the States. See Art. I, §4. It
is for state legislatures to weigh the costs and benefits of
possible changes to their election codes, and their judgment must
prevail unless it imposes a severe and unjustified overall burden
upon the right to vote, or is intended to disadvantage a particular
class. Judicial review of their handiwork must apply an objective,
uniform standard that will enable them to determine, ex
ante, whether the burden they impose is too severe.

															   The lead opinion’s record-based
resolution of these cases, which neither rejects nor embraces the
rule of our precedents, provides no certainty, and will embolden
litigants who surmise that our precedents have been abandoned.
There is no good reason to prefer that course.

															*  *  *

															   The universally applicable
requirements of Indiana’s voter-identification law are
eminently reasonable. The burden of acquiring, possessing, and
showing a free photo identification is simply not severe, because
it does not “even represent a significant increase over the
usual burdens of voting.” Ante, at 15. And the
State’s interests, ante, at 7–13, are
sufficient to sustain that minimal burden. That should end the
matter. That the State accommodates some voters by permitting (not
requiring) the casting of absentee or provisional ballots, is an
indulgence—not a constitutional imperative that falls short
of what is required.

															* A number of our early right-to-vote
decisions, purporting to rely upon the Equal Protection Clause,
strictly scrutinized nondiscriminatory voting laws requiring the
payment of fees. See, e.g., Harper v.
Virginia Bd. of Elections, 383 U. S. 663, 670
(1966) (poll tax); Bullock v. Carter, 405 U. S. 134, 145
(1972) (ballot-access fee); Lubin v. Panish,
415 U. S. 709,
716–719 (1974) (ballot-access fee). To the extent those
decisions continue to stand for a principle that Burdick
v. Takushi, 504 U. S. 428 (1992), does not already
encompass, it suffices to note that we have never held that
legislatures must calibrate all election laws, even those
totally unrelated to money, for their impacts on poor voters or
must otherwise accommodate wealth disparities.

													
