::SCDB_caseID:: 2007-031
::decision_cite:: 553 U.S. 35 (2008)
::decision_name::  Baze v. Rees
::decision_year:: 2008
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 


ALITO, J., CONCURRING
BAZE V. REES
553 U. S. ____ (2008)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 07-5439

															RALPH BAZE and THOMAS C. BOWLING, PETI- TIONERS
v. JOHN D. REES, COMMISSIONER, KENTUCKY DEPARTMENT OF
CORRECTIONS, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
kentucky

															[April 16, 2008]

															   Justice Alito, concurring.

															   I join the plurality opinion but
write separately to explain my view of how the holding should be
implemented. The opinion concludes that “a State’s
refusal to change its method [of execution] can be viewed as
‘cruel and unusual’ under the Eighth Amendment”
if the State, “without a legitimate penological
justification,” rejects an alternative method that is
“feasible” and “readily” available and that
would “significantly reduce a substantial risk of severe
pain.” Ante, at 13. Properly understood, this
standard will not, as Justice Thomas predicts, lead to litigation
that enables “those seeking to abolish the death penalty
… to embroil the States in never-ending litigation
concerning the adequacy of their execution procedures.”
Post, at 12 (opinion concurring in judgment).

															I

															   As the plurality opinion notes,
the constitutionality of capital punishment is not before us in
this case, and therefore we proceed on the assumption that the
death penalty is constitutional. Ante, at 8. From that
assumption, it follows that there must be a constitutional means of
carrying out a death sentence.

															   We also proceed in this case on
the assumption that lethal injection is a constitutional means of
execution. See Gregg v. Georgia, 428 U. S. 153, 175
(1976) (joint opinion of Stewart, Powell, and Stevens, JJ.)
(“[I]n assessing a punishment selected by a democratically
elected legislature against the constitutional measure, we presume
its validity”). Lethal injection was adopted by the Federal
Government and 36 States because it was thought to be the most
humane method of execution, and petitioners here do not contend
that lethal injection should be abandoned in favor of any of the
methods that it replaced—execution by electric chair, the gas
chamber, hanging, or a firing squad. Since we assume for present
purposes that lethal injection is constitutional, the use of that
method by the Federal Government and the States must not be blocked
by procedural requirements that cannot practicably be
satisfied.

															   Prominent among the practical constraints that
must be taken into account in considering the feasibility and
availability of any suggested modification of a lethal injection
protocol are the ethical restrictions applicable to medical
professionals. The first step in the lethal injection protocols
currently in use is the anesthetization of the prisoner. If this
step is carried out properly, it is agreed, the prisoner will not
experience pain during the remainder of the procedure. Every day,
general anesthetics are administered to surgical patients in this
country, and if the medical professionals who participate in these
surgeries also participated in the anesthetization of prisoners
facing execution by lethal injection, the risk of pain would be
minimized. But the ethics rules of medical professionals—for
reasons that I certainly do not question here—prohibit their
participation in executions.

															   Guidelines issued by the American Medical
Association (AMA) state that “[a]n individual’s opinion
on capital punishment is the personal moral decision of the
individual,” but that “[a] physician, as a member of a
profession dedicated to preserving life when there is hope of doing
so, should not be a participant in a legally authorized
execution.” AMA, Code of Medical Ethics, Policy E–2.06
Capital Punishment (2000), online at http://www.ama-assn.org/
ama1/pub/upload/mm/369/e206capitalpunish.pdf (all Internet
materials as visited Apr. 14, 2008, and available in Clerk of
Court’s case file). The guidelines explain:

															“Physician participation in an execution
includes, but is not limited to, the following actions: prescribing
or administering tranquilizers and other psychotropic agents and
medications that are part of the execution procedure; monitoring
vital signs on site or remotely (including monitoring
electrocardiograms); attending or observing an execution as a
physician; and rendering of technical advice regarding
execution.” Ibid.
   The head of ethics at the AMA
has reportedly opined that “[e]ven helping to design a more
humane protocol would disregard the AMA code.” Harris, Will
Medics’ Qualms Kill the Death Penalty? 441 Nature 8–9
(May 4, 2006).
   The American Nurses Association (ANA)
takes the position that participation in an execution “is a
breach of the ethical traditions of nursing, and the Code for
Nurses.” ANA, Position Statement: Nurses’
Participation in Capital Punishment (1994), online at
http://nursingworld.org/Main
MenuCategories  /HealthcareandPolicyIssues  /ANAPosition
StatementsEthicsandHumanRights.aspx. This means, the ANA explains,
that a nurse must not “take part in assessment, supervision
or monitoring of the procedure or the prisoner; procuring,
prescribing or preparing medications or solutions; inserting the
intravenous catheter; injecting the lethal solution; and attending
or witnessing the execution as a nurse.” Ibid.

															   The National Association of Emergency Medical
Technicians (NAEMT) holds that “[p]articipation in capital
punishment is inconsistent with the ethical precepts and goals of
the [Emergency Medical Services] profession.” NAEMT, Position
Statement on EMT and Paramedic Participa- tion in Capital
Punishment (June 9, 2006), online at
http://www.naemt.org/aboutNAEMT/capitalpunishment.htm The
NAEMT’s Position Statement advises that emergency medical
technicians and paramedics should refrain from the same activities
outlined in the ANA statement. Ibid.

															   Recent litigation in California has
demonstrated the effect of such ethics rules. Michael Morales, who
was convicted and sentenced to death for a 1981 murder, filed a
federal civil rights action challenging California’s lethal
injection protocol, which, like Kentucky’s, calls for the
sequential administration of three drugs: sodium pentothal,
pancuronium bromide, and potassium chloride. The District Court
enjoined the State from proceeding with the execution unless it
either (1) used only sodium pentothal or another barbiturate or (2)
ensured that an anesthesiologist was present to ensure that Morales
remained unconscious throughout the process. Morales
v. Hickman, 415 F. Supp. 2d 1037, 1047 (ND Cal.
2006). The Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Court’s order,
Morales v. Hickman, 438 F. 3d 926, 931
(2006), and the State arranged for two anesthesiologists to be
present for the execution. However, they subsequently concluded
that “they could not proceed for reasons of medical
ethics,” Morales v. Tilton, 465
F. Supp. 2d 972, 976 (ND Cal. 2006), and neither Morales nor
any other prisoner in California has since been executed, see
Denno, The Lethal Injection Quandary: How Medicine Has Dismantled
the Death Penalty, 76 Ford. L. Rev. 49 (2007).

															   Objections to features of a lethal injection
protocol must be considered against the backdrop of the ethics
rules of medical professionals and related practical constraints.
Assuming, as previously discussed, that lethal injection is not
unconstitutional per se, it follows that a
suggested modification of a lethal injection protocol cannot be
regarded as “feasible” or “readily”
available if the modification would require
participation—either in carrying out the execution or in
training those who carry out the execution—by persons whose
professional ethics rules or traditions impede their
participation.

															II

															   In order to show that a
modification of a lethal injection protocol is required by the
Eighth Amendment, a prisoner must demonstrate that the modification
would “significantly reduce a substantial
risk of severe pain.” Ante, at 13 (emphasis
added). Showing merely that a modification would result in some
reduction in risk is insufficient. Moreover, an inmate should be
required to do more than simply offer the testimony of a few
experts or a few studies. Instead, an inmate challenging a method
of execution should point to a well-established scientific
consensus. Only if a State refused to change its method in the face
of such evidence would the State’s conduct be comparable to
circumstances that the Court has previously held to be in violation
of the Eighth Amendment. See Farmer v. Brennan,
511 U. S. 825,
836 (1994).

															   The present case well illustrates
the need for this type of evidence. Although there has been a
proliferation of litigation challenging current lethal injection
protocols, evidence regarding alleged defects in these protocols
and the supposed advantages of alternatives is strikingly haphazard
and unreliable. As The Chief Justice and Justice Breyer both note,
the much-discussed Lancet article, Koniaris, Zimmers, Lubarsky,
& Sheldon, Inadequate Anaesthesia in Lethal Injection for
Execution, 365 Lancet 1412 (Apr. 2005), that prompted criticism of
the three-drug protocol has now been questioned, see Groner,
Inadequate Anaesthesia in Lethal Injection for Execution, 366
Lancet 1073 (Sept. 2005). And the lack of clear guidance in the
currently available scientific literature is dramatically
illustrated by the conclusions reached by petitioners and by
Justice Stevens regarding what they view as superior alternatives
to the three-drug protocol.

															   Petitioners’ chief argument is that
Kentucky’s procedure violates the Eighth Amendment because it
does not employ a one-drug protocol involving a lethal dose of an
anesthetic. By “relying … on a lethal dose of an
anesthetic,” petitioners contend, Kentucky “would
virtually eliminate the risk of pain.” Brief for Petitioners
51. Petitioners point to expert testimony in the trial court that
“a three-gram dose of thiopental would cause death within
three minutes to fifteen minutes.” Id., at 54,
n. 16.

															   The accuracy of that testimony is not
universally accepted. Indeed, the medical authorities in the
Netherlands, where assisted suicide is legal, have recommended
against the use of a lethal dose of a barbiturate. An
amicus supporting petitioners, Dr. Robert D.
Truog, Professor of Medical Ethics and Anesthesiology at Harvard
Medical School, has made the following comments about the use of a
lethal dose of a barbiturate:

															   “A number of experts have
said that 2 or 3 or 5 g[rams] of pentothal is absolutely going to
be lethal. The fact is that, at least in this country, none of us
have any experience with this… .

															   “If we go to Holland, where euthanasia
is legal, and we look at a study from 2000 of 535 cases of
euthanasia, in 69% of those cases, they used a paralytic agent.
Now, what do they know that we haven’t figured out yet? I
think what they know is that it’s actually very difficult to
kill someone with just a big dose of a barbiturate. And, in fact,
they report that in 6% of those cases, there were problems with
completion. And in I think five of those, the person actually woke
up, came back out of coma.” Perspective Roundtable:
Physicians and Execution—Highlights from a Discussion of
Lethal Injection, 358 New England J. Med. 448 (2008).

															   Justice Stevens does not advocate
a one-drug protocol but argues that “States wishing to
decrease the risk that future litigation will delay executions or
invalidate their protocols would do well to reconsider their
continued use of pancuronium bromide” in the second step of
the three-drug protocol.* Post, at 8 (opinion concurring
in judgment). But this very drug, pancuronium bromide, is
recommended by the Royal Dutch Society for the Advancement of
Pharmacy as the second of the two drugs to be used in cases of
euthanasia. See Kimsma, Euthanasia and Euthanizing Drugs in The
Netherlands, reprinted in Drug Use in Assisted Suicide and
Euthanasia 193, 200, 204 (M. Battin & A. Lipman eds. 1996).

															   My point in citing the Dutch study is not that
a multi-drug protocol is in fact better than a one-drug protocol or
that it is advisable to use pancuronium bromide. Rather, my point
is that public policy on the death penalty, an issue that stirs
deep emotions, cannot be dictated by the testimony of an expert or
two or by judicial findings of fact based on such testimony.

															III

															   The seemingly endless proceedings
that have characterized capital litigation during the years
following Gregg are well documented. In 1989, the Report
of the Judicial Conference’s Ad Hoc Committee on Federal
Habeas Corpus in Capital Cases, chaired by Justice Powell, noted
the lengthy delays produced by collateral litigation in death
penalty cases. See Committee Report and Proposal 2–4. The
Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 (AEDPA) was
designed to address this problem. See, e.g.,
Woodford v. Garceau, 538 U. S. 202, 206
(2003) (“Congress enacted AEDPA to reduce delays in the
execution of state and federal criminal sentences, particularly in
capital cases …” (citing Williams v.
Taylor, 529
U. S. 362, 386 (2000) (opinion of Stevens, J.))); H. R.
Rep. No. 104–23, p. 8 (1995) (stating that AEDPA was
“designed to curb the abuse of the habeas corpus process, and
particularly to address the problem of delay and repetitive
litigation in capital cases”).

															   Misinterpretation of the standard
set out in the plurality opinion or adoption of the standard
favored by the dissent and Justice Breyer would create a grave
danger of extended delay. The dissenters and Justice Breyer would
hold that the protocol used in carrying out an execution by lethal
injection violates the Eighth Amendment if it creates an
“untoward, readily avoidable risk of inflicting
severe and unnecessary pain.” See post, at 11
(Ginsburg, J., dissenting) (emphasis added); post, at 1
(Breyer, J., concurring in judgment). Determining whether a risk is
“untoward,” we are told, requires a weighing of three
factors—the severity of the pain that may occur, the
likelihood of this pain, and the availability of alternative
methods. Post, at 4 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting). We are
further informed that “[t]he three factors are interrelated;
a strong showing on one reduces the importance of others.”
Ibid.

															   An “untoward” risk is presumably a
risk that is “unfortunate” or “marked by or
causing trouble or unhappiness.” Webster’s Third New
International Dictionary 2513 (1971); Random House Dictionary of
the English Language 1567 (1967). This vague and malleable standard
would open the gates for a flood of litigation that would go a long
way toward bringing about the end of the death penalty as a
practical matter. While I certainly do not suggest that this is the
intent of the Justices who favor this test, the likely consequences
are predictable.

															   The issue presented in this case—the
constitutionality of a method of execution—should be
kept separate from the controversial issue of the death penalty
itself. If the Court wishes to reexamine the latter issue, it
should do so directly, as Justice Stevens now suggests.
Post, at 12. The Court should not produce a de
facto ban on capital punishment by adopting
method-of-execution rules that lead to litigation gridlock.

															* In making this recommendation, he states
that “[t]here is a general understanding among veterinarians
that the risk of pain is sufficiently serious that the use of
[this] drug should be proscribed when an animal’s life is
being terminated.” Post, at 1-2. But the American
Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) guidelines take pains to
point out that the Association’s guidelines should not be
interpreted as commenting on the execution of humans by lethal
injection. AVMA, Guidelines on Euthanasia (June 2007), online at
http://avma.org/issues/ animal_welfare/euthanasia.pdf.

													
