::SCDB_caseID:: 2007-031
::decision_cite:: 553 U.S. 35 (2008)
::decision_name::  Baze v. Rees
::decision_year:: 2008
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 


THOMAS, J., CONCURRING IN JUDGMENT
BAZE V. REES
553 U. S. ____ (2008)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 07-5439

															RALPH BAZE and THOMAS C. BOWLING, PETI- TIONERS
v. JOHN D. REES, COMMISSIONER, KENTUCKY DEPARTMENT OF
CORRECTIONS, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
kentucky

															[April 16, 2008]

															   Justice Thomas, with whom Justice
Scalia joins, concurring in the judgment.

															   Although I agree that petitioners
have failed to establish that Kentucky’s lethal injection
protocol violates the Eighth Amendment, I write separately because
I cannot subscribe to the plurality opinion’s formulation of
the governing standard. As I understand it, that opinion would hold
that a method of execution violates the Eighth Amendment if it
poses a substantial risk of severe pain that could be significantly
reduced by adopting readily available alternative procedures.
Ante, at 13. This standard—along with
petitioners’ proposed “unnecessary risk” standard
and the dissent’s “untoward risk” standard,
post, at 2—finds no support in the original
understanding of the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause or in our
previous method-of-execution cases; casts constitutional doubt on
long-accepted methods of execution; and injects the Court into
matters it has no institutional capacity to resolve. Because, in my
view, a method of execution violates the Eighth Amendment only if
it is deliberately designed to inflict pain, I concur only in the
judgment.

															I

															   The Eighth Amendment’s
prohibition on the “inflict[ion]” of “cruel and
unusual punishments” must be understood in light of the
historical practices that led the Framers to include it in the Bill
of Rights. Justice Stevens’ ruminations notwithstanding, see
ante, at 8–18 (opinion concurring in judgment), it
is clear that the Eighth Amendment does not prohibit the death
penalty. That is evident both from the ubiquity of the death
penalty in the founding era, see S. Banner, The Death Penalty: An
American History 23 (2002) (hereinafter Banner) (noting that, in
the late 18th century, the death penalty was “the standard
penalty for all serious crimes”), and from the
Constitution’s express provision for capital punishment, see,
e.g., Amdt. 5 (requiring an indictment or presentment of a
grand jury to hold a person for “a capital, or otherwise
infamous crime,” and prohibiting deprivation of
“life” without due process of law).

															   That the Constitution permits
capital punishment in principle does not, of course, mean that all
methods of execution are constitutional. In English and early
colonial practice, the death penalty was not a uniform punishment,
but rather a range of punishments, some of which the Framers likely
regarded as cruel and unusual. Death by hanging was the most common
mode of execution both before and after 1791, and there is no doubt
that it remained a permissible punishment after enactment of the
Eighth Amendment. “An ordinary death by hanging was not,
however, the harshest penalty at the disposal of the seventeenth-
and eighteenth-century state.” Banner 70. In addition to
hanging, which was intended to, and often did, result in a quick
and painless death, “[o]fficials also wielded a set of tools
capable of intensifying a death sentence,” that is,
“ways of producing a punishment worse than death.”
Id., at 54.

															   One such “tool” was burning at the
stake. Because burning, unlike hanging, was always painful and
destroyed the body, it was considered “a form of
super-capital punishment, worse than death itself.”
Id., at 71. Reserved for offenders whose crimes were
thought to pose an especially grave threat to the social
order—such as slaves who killed their masters and women who
killed their husbands—burning a person alive was so dreadful
a punishment that sheriffs sometimes hanged the offender first
“as an act of charity.” Id., at 72.

															   Other methods of intensifying a death sentence
included “gibbeting,” or hanging the condemned in an
iron cage so that his body would decompose in public view, see
id., at 72–74, and “public dissection,”
a punishment Blackstone associated with murder, 4 W. Blackstone,
Commentaries 376 (1769) (hereinafter Blackstone). But none of these
was the worst fate a criminal could meet. That was reserved for the
most dangerous and reprobate offenders—traitors. “The
punishment of high treason,” Blackstone wrote, was
“very solemn and terrible,” id., at 92, and
involved “embowelling alive, beheading, and
quartering,” id., at 376. Thus, the following death
sentence could be pronounced on seven men convicted of high treason
in England:

															“ ‘That you and each of you, be
taken to the place from whence you came, and from thence be drawn
on a hurdle to the place of execution, where you shall be hanged by
the necks, not till you are dead; that you be severally taken down,
while yet alive, and your bowels be taken out and burnt before your
faces—that your heads be then cut off, and your bodies cut in
four quarters, to be at the King’s disposal. And God Almighty
have mercy on your souls.’ ” G. Scott, History of
Capital Punishment 179 (1950).*

															   The principal object of these
aggravated forms of capital punishment was to terrorize the
criminal, and thereby more effectively deter the crime. Their
defining characteristic was that they were purposely designed to
inflict pain and suffering beyond that necessary to cause death. As
Blackstone put it, “in very atrocious crimes, other
circumstances of terror, pain, or disgrace [were]
superadded.” 4 Blackstone 376. These “superadded”
circumstances “were carefully handed out to apply terror
where it was thought to be most needed,” and were designed
“to ensure that death would be slow and painful, and thus all
the more frightening to contemplate.” Banner 70.

															   Although the Eighth Amendment was not the
subject of extensive discussion during the debates on the Bill of
Rights, there is good reason to believe that the Framers viewed
such enhancements to the death penalty as falling within the
prohibition of the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause. By the
late 18th century, the more violent modes of execution had
“dwindled away,” id., at 76, and would for
that reason have been “unusual” in the sense that they
were no longer “regularly or customarily employed,”
Harmelin v. Michigan, 501 U. S. 957, 976
(1991) (opinion of Scalia, J.); see also Weems v.
United States, 217 U. S. 349, 395
(1910) (White, J., dissenting) (noting that, “prior to the
formation of the Constitution, the necessity for the protection
afforded by the cruel and unusual punishment guarantee of the
English bill of rights had ceased to be a matter of concern,
because as a rule the cruel bodily punishments of former times were
no longer imposed”). Embellishments upon the death penalty
designed to inflict pain for pain’s sake also would have
fallen comfortably within the ordinary meaning of the word
“cruel.” See 1 S. Johnson, A Dictionary of the English
Language 459 (1773) (defining “cruel” to mean
“[p]leased with hurting others; inhuman; hard-hearted; void
of pity; wanting compassion; savage; barbarous;
unrelenting”); 1 N. Webster, An American Dictionary of the
English Language 52 (1828) (defining “cruel” as
“[d]isposed to give pain to others, in body or mind; willing
or pleased to torment, vex or afflict; inhuman; destitute of pity,
compassion or kindness”).

															   Moreover, the evidence we do have from the
debates on the Constitution confirms that the Eighth Amendment was
intended to disable Congress from imposing torturous punishments.
It was the absence of such a restriction on Congress’ power
in the Constitution as drafted in Philadelphia in 1787 that led one
delegate at the Massachusetts ratifying convention to complain that
Congress was “nowhere restrained from inventing the most
cruel and unheard-of punishments, and annexing them to crimes; and
there is no constitutional check on them, but that racks
and gibbets may be amongst the most mild instruments of
their discipline.” 2 J. Elliot, The Debates in the Several
State Conventions on the Adoption of the Federal Constitution 111
(2d ed. 1891). Similarly, during the ratification debate in
Virginia, Patrick Henry objected to the lack of a Bill of Rights,
in part because there was nothing to prevent Congress from
inflicting “tortures, or cruel and barbarous
punishment[s].” 3 id., at 447–448.

															   Early commentators on the Constitution
likewise interpreted the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause as
referring to torturous punishments. One commentator viewed the
Eighth Amendment as prohibiting “horrid modes of
torture”:

															“The prohibition of cruel and unusual
punishments, marks the improved spirit of the age, which would not
tolerate the use of the rack or the stake, or any of those horrid
modes of torture, devised by human ingenuity for the gratification
of fiendish passion.” J. Bayard, A Brief Exposition of the
Constitution of the United States 154 (2d ed. 1840).

															Similarly, another commentator found
“sufficient reasons” for the Eighth Amendment in the
“barbarous and cruel punishments” inflicted in less
enlightened countries:

															“Under the [Eighth] amendment the infliction
of cruel and unusual punishments, is also prohibited. The various
barbarous and cruel punishments inflicted under the laws of some
other countries, and which profess not to be behind the most
enlightened nations on earth in civilization and refinement,
furnish sufficient reasons for this express prohibition. Breaking
on the wheel, flaying alive, rending asunder with horses, various
species of horrible tortures inflicted in the inquisition, maiming,
mutilating and scourging to death, are wholly alien to the spirit
of our humane general constitution.” B. Oliver, The Rights of
An American Citizen 186 (1832) (reprint 1970).

															So barbaric were the punishments prohibited by the
Eighth Amendment that Joseph Story thought the provision
“wholly unnecessary in a free government, since it is
scarcely possible, that any department of such a government should
authorize, or justify such atrocious conduct.” 3 J. Story,
Commentaries on the Constitution of the United States 750
(1833).

															II

															   Consistent with the original
understanding of the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause, this
Court’s cases have repeatedly taken the view that the Framers
intended to prohibit torturous modes of punishment akin to those
that formed the historical backdrop of the Eighth Amendment. See,
e.g., Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U. S. 97, 102 (1976)
(“[T]he primary concern of the drafters was to proscribe
‘torture[s]’ and other ‘barbar[ous]’
methods of punishment”); Weems, 217 U. S., at 390
(White, J., dissenting) (“[I]t may not be doubted, and indeed
is not questioned by any one, that the cruel punishments against
which the bill of rights provided were the atrocious, sanguinary
and inhuman punishments which had been inflicted in the past upon
the persons of criminals”). That view has permeated our
method-of-execution cases. Thrice the Court has considered a
challenge to a modern method of execution, and thrice it has
rejected the challenge, each time emphasizing that the Eighth
Amendment is aimed at methods of execution purposely designed to
inflict pain.

															   In the first case,
Wilkerson v. Utah, 99 U. S. 130 (1879), the
Court rejected the contention that death by firing squad was cruel
and unusual. In so doing, it reviewed the various modes of
execution catalogued by Blackstone, repeating his observation that
“in very atrocious crimes other circumstances of terror,
pain, or disgrace were sometimes superadded.” Id.,
at 135. The Court found it “safe to affirm that punishments
of torture, such as those mentioned by [Blackstone], and all others
in the same line of unnecessary cruelty, are forbidden by [the
Eighth Amendment].” Id., at 136. The unanimous Court
had no difficulty concluding that death by firing squad did not
“fal[l] within that category.” Ibid.

															   Similarly, when the Court in In re
Kemmler, 136 U.
S. 436, 446 (1890), unanimously rejected a challenge to
electrocution, it interpreted the Eighth Amendment to prohibit
punishments that “were manifestly cruel and unusual, as
burning at the stake, crucifixion, breaking on the wheel, or the
like”:

															“Punishments are cruel when they involve
torture or a lingering death; but the punishment of death is not
cruel, within the meaning of that word as used in the Constitution.
It implies there something inhuman and barbarous, something more
than the mere extinguishment of life.” Id., at
447.

															   Finally, in Louisiana ex rel.
Francis v. Resweber, 329 U. S. 459 (1947),
the Court rejected the petitioner’s contention that the
Eighth Amendment prohibited Louisiana from subjecting him to a
second attempt at electrocution, the first attempt having failed
when “[t]he executioner threw the switch but, presumably
because of some mechanical difficulty, death did not result.”
Id., at 460 (plurality opinion). Characterizing the
abortive attempt as “an accident, with no suggestion of
malevolence,” id., at 463, the plurality opinion
concluded that “the fact that petitioner ha[d] already been
subjected to a current of electricity [did] not make his subsequent
execution any more cruel in the constitutional sense than any other
execution”:

															“The cruelty against which the Constitution
protects a convicted man is cruelty inherent in the method of
punishment, not the necessary suffering involved in any method
employed to extinguish life humanely. The fact that an
unforeseeable accident prevented the prompt consummation of the
sentence cannot, it seems to us, add an element of cruelty to a
subsequent execution. There is no purpose to inflict unnecessary
pain nor any unnecessary pain involved in the proposed
execution.” Id., at 464.

															   III

															   In light of this consistent
understanding of the Cruel and Unusual Punishments Clause as
forbidding purposely torturous punishments, it is not surprising
that even an ardent abolitionist was constrained to acknowledge in
1977 that “[a]n unbroken line of interpreters has held that
it was the original understanding and intent of the framers of the
Eighth Amendment … to proscribe as ‘cruel and
unusual’ only such modes of execution as compound
the simple infliction of death with added cruelties or
indignities.” H. Bedau, The Courts, the Constitution, and
Capital Punishment 35. What is surprising is the plurality’s
willingness to discard this unbroken line of authority in favor of
a standard that finds no support in the original understanding of
the Eighth Amendment or in our method-of-execution cases and that,
disclaimers notwithstanding, “threaten[s] to transform courts
into boards of inquiry charged with determining ‘best
practices’ for executions, with each ruling supplanted by
another round of litigation touting a new and improved
methodology.” Ante, at 12.

															   We have never suggested that a
method of execution is “cruel and unusual” within the
meaning of the Eighth Amendment simply because it involves a risk
of pain—whether “substantial,”
“unnecessary,” or “untoward”—that
could be reduced by adopting alternative procedures. And for good
reason. It strains credulity to suggest that the defining
characteristic of burning at the stake, disemboweling, drawing and
quartering, beheading, and the like was that they involved risks of
pain that could be eliminated by using alternative methods of
execution. Quite plainly, what defined these punishments was that
they were designed to inflict torture as a way of
enhancing a death sentence; they were intended to produce
a penalty worse than death, to accomplish something “more
than the mere extinguishment of life.” Kemmler,
supra, at 447. The evil the Eighth Amendment targets is
intentional infliction of gratuitous pain, and that is the standard
our method-of-execution cases have explicitly or implicitly
invoked.

															   Thus, the Court did not find it necessary in
Wilkerson to conduct a comparative analysis of death by
firing squad as opposed to hanging or some other method of
execution. Nor did the Court inquire into the precise procedures
used to execute an individual by firing squad in order to determine
whether they involved risks of pain that could be alleviated by
adopting different procedures. It was enough that death by firing
squad was well established in military practice, 99 U. S., at
134–135, and plainly did not fall within the “same line
of unnecessary cruelty” as the punishments described by
Blackstone, id., at 136.

															   The same was true in Kemmler. One
searches the opinion in vain for a comparative analysis of
electrocution versus other methods of execution. The Court observed
that the New York Legislature had adopted electrocution in order to
replace hanging with “ ‘the most humane and
practical method known to modern science of carrying into effect
the sentence of death in capital cases.’ ” 136 U.
S., at 444. But there is no suggestion that the Court thought it
necessary to sift through the “voluminous mass of evidence
… taken [in the courts below] as to the effect of
electricity as an agent of death,” id., at 442, in
order to confirm that electrocution in fact involved less
substantial risks of pain or lingering death than hanging. The
court below had rejected the challenge because the “act was
passed in the effort to devise a more humane method of reaching the
result,” and “courts were bound to presume that the
legislature was possessed of the facts upon which it took
action.” Id., at 447. Treating the lower
court’s decision “as involving an adjudication that the
statute was not repugnant to the Federal Constitution,”
ibid., the Court found that conclusion “so plainly
right,” ibid., that it had “no
hesitation” in denying the writ of error, id., at
449.

															   Likewise in Resweber, the Court was
confronted in dramatic fashion with the reality that the electric
chair involved risks of error or malfunction that could result in
excruciating pain. See 329 U. S., at 480, n. 2 (Burton, J.,
dissenting) (quoting affidavits from the petitioner’s brief
recounting that during the unsuccessful first attempt at
electrocution, the petitioner’s “ ‘lips
puffed out and his body squirmed and tensed and he jumped so that
the chair rocked on the floor’ ”). But absent
“malevolence” or a “purpose to inflict
unnecessary pain,” the Court concluded that the Constitution
did not prohibit Louisiana from subjecting the petitioner to those
very risks a second time in order to carry out his death sentence.
Id., at 463, 464 (plurality opinion); id., at 471
(Frankfurter, J., concurring); see also Furman v.
Georgia, 408 U. S. 238,
326–327 (1972) (Marshall, J., concurring) (describing
Resweber as holding “that the legislature adopted
electrocution for a humane purpose, and that its will should not be
thwarted because, in its desire to reduce pain and suffering in
most cases, it may have inadvertently increased suffering in one
particular case”). No one suggested that Louisiana was
required to implement additional safeguards or alternative
procedures in order to reduce the risk of a second malfunction. And
it was the dissenters in Resweber who insisted
that the absence of an intent to inflict pain was irrelevant. 329
U. S., at 477 (Burton, J., dissenting) (“The intent of the
executioner cannot lessen the torture or excuse the
result”).

															IV

															   Aside from lacking support in
history or precedent, the various risk-based standards proposed in
this case suffer from other flaws, not the least of which is that
they cast substantial doubt on every method of execution other than
lethal injection. It may well be that other methods of execution
such as hanging, the firing squad, electrocution, and lethal gas
involve risks of pain that could be eliminated by switching to
lethal injection. Indeed, they have been attacked as
unconstitutional for that very reason. See, e.g.,
Gomez v. United States Dist. Court for Northern Dist.
of Cal., 503 U.
S. 653, 654, 656–657 (1992) (Stevens, J., dissenting)
(arguing that lethal gas violates the Eighth Amendment because of
“the availability of more humane and less violent methods of
execution,” namely, lethal injection); Glass v.
Louisiana, 471 U. S. 1080, 1093
(1985) (Brennan, J., dissenting from denial of certiorari) (arguing
that electrocution violates the Eighth Amendment because it poses
risks of pain that could be alleviated by “other currently
available means of execution,” such as lethal injection);
Campbell v. Wood, 18 F. 3d 662, 715 (CA9
1994) (Reinhardt, J., concurring and dissenting) (arguing that
hanging violates the Eighth Amendment because it involves risks of
pain and mutilation not presented by lethal injection). But the
notion that the Eighth Amendment permits only one mode of
execution, or that it requires an anesthetized death, cannot be
squared with the history of the Constitution.

															   It is not a little
ironic—and telling—that lethal injection, hailed just a
few years ago as the humane alternative in light of which
every other method of execution was deemed an unconstitutional
relic of the past, is the subject of today’s challenge. It
appears the Constitution is “evolving” even faster than
I suspected. And it is obvious that, for some who oppose capital
punishment on policy grounds, the only acceptable end point of the
evolution is for this Court, in an exercise of raw judicial power
unsupported by the text or history of the Constitution, or even by
a contemporary moral consensus, to strike down the death penalty as
cruel and unusual in all circumstances. In the meantime, though,
the next best option for those seeking to abolish the death penalty
is to embroil the States in never-ending litigation concerning the
adequacy of their execution procedures. But far from putting an end
to abusive litigation in this area, and thereby vindicating in some
small measure the States’ “significant interest in
meting out a sentence of death in a timely fashion,”
Nelson v. Campbell, 541 U. S. 637, 644
(2004), today’s decision is sure to engender more litigation.
At what point does a risk become “substantial”? Which
alternative procedures are “feasible” and
“readily implemented”? When is a reduction in risk
“significant”? What penological justifications are
“legitimate”? Such are the questions the lower courts
will have to grapple with in the wake of today’s decision.
Needless to say, we have left the States with nothing resembling a
bright-line rule.

															   Which brings me to yet a further problem with
comparative-risk standards: They require courts to resolve medical
and scientific controversies that are largely beyond judicial ken.
Little need be said here, other than to refer to the various
opinions filed by my colleagues today. Under the competing risk
standards advanced by the plurality opinion and the dissent, for
example, the difference between a lethal injection procedure that
satisfies the Eighth Amendment and one that does not may well come
down to one’s judgment with respect to something as
hairsplitting as whether an eyelash stroke is necessary to ensure
that the inmate is unconscious, or whether instead other measures
have already provided sufficient assurance of unconsciousness.
Compare post, at 6 (Ginsburg, J., dissenting) (criticizing
Kentucky’s protocol because “[n]o one calls the
inmate’s name, shakes him, brushes his eyelashes to test for
a reflex, or applies a noxious stimulus to gauge his
response”), with ante, at 22 (rejecting the
dissent’s criticisms because “an inmate cannot succeed
on an Eighth Amendment claim simply by showing one more step the
State could take as a failsafe for other, independently adequate
measures”). We have neither the authority nor the expertise
to micromanage the States’ administration of the death
penalty in this manner. There is simply no reason to believe that
“unelected” judges without scientific, medical, or
penological training are any better suited to resolve the delicate
issues surrounding the administration of the death penalty than are
state administrative personnel specifically charged with the task.
Cf. ante, at 5 (Stevens, J., concurring in judgment)
(criticizing the States’ use of the three-drug protocol
because “[i]n the majority of States that use the three-drug
protocol, the drugs were selected by unelected Department of
Correction officials with no specialized medical knowledge and
without the benefit of expert assistance or guidance”).

															   In short, I reject as both unprecedented and
unworkable any standard that would require the courts to weigh the
relative advantages and disadvantages of different methods of
execution or of different procedures for implementing a given
method of execution. To the extent that there is any comparative
element to the inquiry, it should be limited to whether the
challenged method inherently inflicts significantly more pain than
traditional modes of execution such as hanging and the firing
squad. See, e.g., Gray v. Lucas,
463 U. S. 1237,
1239–1240 (1983) (Burger, C. J., concurring in denial of
certiorari) (rejecting an Eighth Amendment challenge to lethal gas
because the petitioner had not shown that “ ‘the
pain and terror resulting from death by cyanide gas is so different
in degree or nature from that resulting from other traditional
modes of execution as to implicate the eighth amendment
right’ ” (quoting Gray v. Lucas,
710 F. 2d 1048, 1061 (CA5 1983))); Hernandez v.
State, 43 Ariz. 424, 441, 32 P. 2d 18, 25 (1934)
(“The fact that [lethal gas] is less painful and more humane
than hanging is all that is required to refute completely the
charge that it constitutes cruel and unusual punishment within the
meaning of this expression as used in [the Eighth
Amendment]”).

															V

															   Judged under the proper standard,
this is an easy case. It is undisputed that Kentucky adopted its
lethal injection protocol in an effort to make capital punishment
more humane, not to add elements of terror, pain, or disgrace to
the death penalty. And it is undisputed that, if administered
properly, Kentucky’s lethal injection protocol will result in
a swift and painless death. As the Sixth Circuit observed in
rejecting a similar challenge to Tennessee’s lethal injection
protocol, we “do not have a situation where the State has any
intent (or anything approaching intent) to inflict unnecessary
pain; the complaint is that the State’s pain-avoidance
procedure may fail because the executioners may make a mistake
in implementing it.” Workman v. Bredesen,
486 F. 3d 896, 907 (2007). But “[t]he risk of negligence
in implementing a death-penalty procedure … does
not establish a cognizable Eighth Amendment claim.”
Id., at 907–908. Because Kentucky’s lethal
injection protocol is designed to eliminate pain rather than to
inflict it, petitioners’ challenge must fail. I accordingly
concur in the Court’s judgment affirming the decision
below.

															* As gruesome as these methods of execution
were, they were not the worst punishments the Framers would have
been acquainted with. After surveying the various
“superadd[itions]” to the death penalty in English law,
as well as lesser punishments such as “mutilation or
dismembering, by cutting off the hand or ears” and
stigmatizing the offender “by slitting the nostrils, or
branding in the hand or cheek,” Blackstone was able to
congratulate his countrymen on their refinement, in contrast to the
barbarism on the Continent: “Disgusting as this catalogue may
seem, it will afford pleasure to an English reader, and do honor to
the English law, to compare it with that shocking apparatus of
death and torment to be met with in the criminal codes of almost
every other nation in Europe.” 4 Blackstone 377.

													
