::SCDB_caseID:: 2007-044
::decision_cite:: 553 U.S. 507 (2008)
::decision_name::  United States v. Santos
::decision_year:: 2008
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 


ALITO, J., DISSENTING
UNITED STATES V. SANTOS
553 U. S. ____ (2008)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 06-1005

															UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v. EFRAIN SANTOS
and BENEDICTO DIAZ

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the seventh circuit

															[June 2, 2008]

															   Justice Alito, with whom The
Chief Justice, Justice Kennedy, and Justice Breyer join,
dissenting.

															   Fairly read, the term
“proceeds,” as used in the principal federal money
laundering statute, 18 U. S. C. §1956(a), means
“the total amount brought in,” the primary dictionary
definition. Webster’s Third New International Dictionary 1807
(1976) (hereinafter Webster’s 3d). See also Random House
Dictionary of the English Language 1542 (2d ed. 1987) (“the
total sum derived from a sale or other transaction”). The
plurality opinion, however, makes no serious effort to interpret
this important statutory term. Ignoring the context in which the
term is used, the problems that the money laundering statute was
enacted to address, and the obvious practical considerations that
those responsible for drafting the statute almost certainly had in
mind, that opinion is quick to pronounce the term hopelessly
ambiguous and thus to invoke the rule of lenity. Concluding that
“proceeds” means “profits,” the plurality
opinion’s interpretation would frustrate Congress’
intent and maim a statute that was enacted as an important defense
against organized criminal enterprises.

															   Fortunately, Justice
Stevens’s opinion recognizes that the term
“proceeds” “include[s] gross revenues from the
sale of contraband and the operation of organized crime syndicates
involving such sales.” Ante, at 2–3 (opinion
concurring in judgment).[Footnote
1] I cannot agree with Justice Stevens’s approach insofar
as it holds that the meaning of the term “proceeds”
varies depending on the nature of the illegal activity that
produces the laundered funds, but at least that approach preserves
the correct interpretation of the statute in most of the cases that
were the focus of congressional concern when the money laundering
statute was enacted.

															I

															A

															   While the primary definition of
the term “proceeds” is “the total amount brought
in,” I recognize that the term may also be used to mean
“net profit,” Webster’s 3d 1807, and I do not
suggest that the question presented in this case can be answered
simply by opening a dictionary. When a word has more than one
meaning, the meaning that is intended is often made clear by the
context in which the word is used, and thus in this case, upon
finding that the term “proceeds” may mean both
“the total amount brought in” and “net
profit,” the appropriate next step is not to abandon any
effort at interpretation and summon in the rule of lenity. Rather,
the next thing to do is to ask what the term “proceeds”
customarily means in the context that is relevant here—a
money laundering statute.

															   The federal money laundering
statute is not the only money laundering provision that uses the
term “proceeds.” On the contrary, the term is a staple
of money laundering laws, and it is instructive that in every
single one of these provisions in which the term
“proceeds” is defined—and there are
many—the law specifies that “proceeds” means
“the total amount brought in.”

															   The leading treaty on international money
laundering, the United Nations Convention Against Transnational
Organized Crime (Convention), Nov. 15, 2000, 2225 U. N. T. S. 209
(Treaty No. I–39574), which has been adopted by the United
States and 146 other countries,[Footnote 2] is instructive. This treaty contains a
provision that is very similar to §1956(a)(1)(B)(i). Article
6.1 of the Convention obligates signatory nations to criminalize
“[t]he . . . transfer of property, knowing that such property
is the proceeds of crime, for the purpose of concealing or
disguising the illicit origin of the property or of helping any
person who is involved in the commission of the predicate offence
to evade the legal consequences of his or her action.”
Id., at 277 (emphasis added). The Convention defines the
term “proceeds” to mean “any property derived
from or obtained, directly or indirectly, through the commission of
an offence.” Id., at 275 (Art. 2(e)). The money
laundering provision of the Convention thus covers gross
receipts.[Footnote 3]
   The term “proceeds” is given a
similarly broad scope in the Model Money Laundering Act (Model
Act). See President’s Commission on Model State Drug Laws,
Economic Remedies, §C (1993). Section 5(a)(1) of the Model Act
criminalizes transactions involving property that is “the
proceeds of some form of unlawful activity,” and the Model
Act defines “proceeds” as “property acquired or
derived directly or indirectly from, produced through, realized
through, or caused by an act or omission … includ[ing] any
property of any kind,” §4(a).

															   Fourteen States have money laundering statutes
that define the term “proceeds,” and in every one of
these laws the term is defined in a way that encompasses gross
receipts. See Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §§13–2314(N)(3)
(West 2001), 13–2317(F)(4)(b) (West Supp. 2007); Ark. Code
Ann. §5–42–203(5) (2006); Cal. Health & Safety
Code Ann. §11370.9(h)(1) (West 2007); Haw. Rev. Stat.
§§708A–2, 708A–3 (2007); Ind. Code
§§35–45–15–4,
35–45–15–5 (West 2004); Iowa Code
§§706B.1(1), 706B.2 (2005); La. Stat. Ann.
§14:230(A)(4) (West 2004); Mich. Comp. Laws Ann.
§§750.411j(f), 750.411j (West 2004); N. M. Stat.
Ann. §§30–51–2(E), 30–51–4(A)
(2004); Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §§1315.51(H), 1315.55 (Lexis
2006); Tex. Penal Code §§34.01(4), 34.02 (West Supp.
2007); Utah Code Ann. §§76–10–1902(9),
76–10–1903 (West 2007); Va. Code Ann.
§§18.2–246.2, 18.2–246.3 (Lexis 2004); Wash.
Rev. Code §§9A.83.010(5), 9A.83.020 (2006). Cf.
N. J. Stat. Ann. §2C:21–25(d) (West 2005).[Footnote 4]

															   This pattern of usage is revealing. It
strongly suggests that when lawmakers, knowledgeable about the
nature and problem of money laundering, use the term
“proceeds” in a money laundering provision, they
customarily mean for the term to reach all receipts and not just
profits.[Footnote 5]

															B

															   There is a very good reason for
this uniform pattern of usage. Money laundering provisions serve
two chief ends. First, they provide deterrence by preventing drug
traffickers and other criminals who amass large quantities of cash
from using these funds “to support a luxurious
lifestyle” or otherwise to enjoy the fruits of their crimes.
Model Act, Policy Statement, p. C–105. See President’s
Commission on Organized Crime, Interim Report to President and
Attorney General, The Cash Connection: Organized Crime, Financial
Institutions, and Money Laundering 7–8 (Oct. 1984)
(hereinafter Interim Report); Aranson, Bouker, & Hannon, Money
Laundering, 31 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 721, 721–722 (1994);
H. R. Rep. No. 99–746, p. 16 (1986) (hereinafter
H. R. Rep.). Second, they inhibit the growth of criminal
enterprises by preventing the use of dirty money to promote the
enterprise’s growth. See, e.g., 18 U. S. C.
§§1956(a)(1)(A)(i), (a)(2)(A), and (a)(3)(A); Model Act
§§5(a)(2), (4); N. J. Stat. Ann.
§2C:21–25(b)(1); Tex. Penal Code
§§34.02(a)(3)–(4).

															   Both of these objectives are
frustrated if a money laundering statute is limited to profits.
Dirty money may be used to support “a luxurious
lifestyle” and to grow an illegal enterprise whenever the
enterprise possesses large amounts of illegally obtained cash. And
illegal enterprises may acquire such cash while engaging in
unlawful activity that is unprofitable.

															   Suppose, for example, that a drug cartel sends
a large shipment of drugs to this country, a good part of the
shipment is intercepted, the remainder is sold, the cartel ends up
with a net loss but with a large quantity of cash on its hands, and
the cartel uses the cash in financial transactions that are
designed to conceal the source of the cash or to promote further
crime. There is no plausible reason why Congress would not have
wanted the money laundering statute to apply to these financial
transactions. If the cartel leaders use the money to live in
luxury, this provides an incentive for these individuals to stay in
the business and for others to enter. If the cartel uses the money
to finance future drug shipments or to expand the business, public
safety is harmed.

															   It is certainly true that Congress, in
enacting the federal money laundering statute, was primarily
concerned about criminal enterprises that realize profits. A
criminal operation that consistently loses money will not last very
long and thus presents a lesser danger than a profitable operation.
But narrowing a money laundering statute so that it reaches only
profits produces two perverse results that Congress cannot have
wanted. First, it immunizes successful criminal enterprises during
those periods when they are operating temporarily in the red.
Second, and more important, it introduces pointless and difficult
problems of proof. Because the dangers presented by money
laundering are present whenever criminals have large stores of
illegally derived funds on their hands, there is little reason to
require proof—which may be harder to assemble than the
plurality opinion acknowledges—that the funds represent
profits.

															C

															   The implausibility of a net
income interpretation is highlighted in cases involving
professionals and others who are hired to launder money. Those who
are knowledgeable about money laundering stress the importance of
prosecuting these hired money launderers. See, e.g.,
Depts. of Treasury and Justice, The 2001 National Money Laundering
Strategy, pp. ix–x, 1–2 (Sept. 2001), online at
http://www.treas.gov/press/releases/docs/ml2001.pdf; Fi-nancial
Action Task Force on Money Laundering, 1996–1997 Report on
Money Laundering Typologies 7 (Feb. 1997), online at
http://www.fatf-gafi.org/dataoecd/31/29/ 34043795.pdf; Butterworths
International Guide to Money Laundering Law and Practice 629 (T.
Graham 2d ed. 2003); Ratliff, Third Party Money Laundering:
Problems of Proof and Prosecutorial Discretion, 7 Stan.
L. & Policy Rev. 173 (1996); Sultzer, Money Laundering:
The Scope of the Problem and Attempts to Combat It, 63 Tenn.
L. Rev. 143, 147–148 (1995); H. R. Rep., at
16–17.

															   A net income interpretation would
risk hamstringing such prosecutions. To violate 18 U. S. C.
§1956(a), a defendant must “kno[w] the property involved
in a financial transaction represents the proceeds of some form of
unlawful activity.” A professional money launderer is not
likely to know (or perhaps even to care) whether the enterprise is
operating in the black when the funds in question were acquired.
Therefore, under a net income interpretation, financial specialists
and others who are hired to launder funds would generally be beyond
the reach of the statute, something that Congress almost certainly
did not intend.

															   It is revealing that the money laundering
statute explicitly provides that a money launderer need only know
that “the property involved in the transaction represented
proceeds from some form, though not necessarily which form, of
[specified illegal] activity.” §1956(c)(1). Thus, the
prosecution is not required to prove that a hired money launderer
knew that funds provided for laundering derived from, say, drug
sales as opposed to gambling. There is no reason to think that
hired money launderers are more likely to know whether funds
include profits than they are to know the nature of the illegal
activity from which the funds were derived. Consequently,
§1956(c) suggests that Congress did not intend to require
proof that a hired money launderer knew that funds provided for
laundering included profits.

															   The plurality opinion dismisses these concerns
with the observation that a jury may infer that a hired launderer
knew that funds included profits if the launderer had a
long-running relationship with the entity or person providing the
funds or knew that the entity or person had been involved in the
illegal enterprise for a lengthy period. See ante, at 14.
But what about the case where the launderer accepts a million
dollars of drug money on a single occasion? And even if there would
be legally sufficient evidence to support an inference of the
requisite knowledge under the circumstances that the plurality
opinion posits, the requirement of convincing a jury to find beyond
a reasonable doubt that the funds included profits would pose a
troublesome and (in light of the aim of the money laundering
statute) pointless obstacle.

															D

															   Even in cases in which the
defendants are alleged to have been involved in the underlying
criminal activity, a net income interpretation would produce
nettlesome problems that Congress cannot have wanted. These
problems may be especially acute in the very cases that money
laundering statutes principally target, that is, cases involving
large-scale criminal operations that continue over a substantial
period of time, particularly drug cartels and other organized crime
syndicates.

															   The federal money laundering
statute was enacted in the wake of an influential report by the
President’s Commission on Organized Crime that focused
squarely on criminal enterprises of this type. See Interim Report
7–8 (described in S. Rep. No. 99–433, pp.
2–4 (1986) (hereinafter S. Rep.) and H. R. Rep., at
16). The Commission identified drug traffickers and other organized
criminal groups as presenting the most serious problems. See
Interim Report 7. The Commission found that “narcotics
traffickers, who must conceal billions of dollars in cash from
detection by the government, create by far the greatest demand for
money laundering services” but that “numerous other
types of activities typical of organized crime, such as
loansharking and gambling, also create an appreciable demand for
such schemes.” Ibid. To illustrate the scope and
nature of the money laundering problem, a section of the Interim
Report was devoted to case studies, most of which involved the
laundering of drug money. Id., at 29–49.

															   As a prime example of the problem of money
laundering, the report discussed the so-called “Pizza
Connection” case that was prosecuted in federal court in New
York City in the 1980’s. In that case, the evidence showed
that the Sicilian Mafia and organized crime elements in the United
States, over a period of many years, imported huge amounts of
heroin into this country, sold the heroin here, accumulated
millions of dollars of cash, and then laundered the funds by
smuggling them overseas in suitcases or funneling the money through
a maze of bank accounts. See id., at 31–35;
United States v. Casamento, 887 F. 2d 1141,
1148–1149 (CA2 1989).

															   Following the issuance of the Interim Report,
Congress turned its attention to the problem of money laundering,
and much of the discussion focused on the need to prevent
laundering by drug and organized crime syndicates. See,
e.g., S. Rep., at 3 (discussing “organized
crime ‘businesses’ such as gambling, prostitution, and
loansharking”), 4 (“Money laundering is a crucial
financial underpinning of organized crime and narcotics
trafficking” (internal quotation marks omitted)); Hearing on
Money Laundering Legislation before the Senate Committee on the
Judiciary, 99th Cong., 1st Sess., 1 (1985) (statement of Chairman
Thurmond); id., at 29 (statement of Sen. Biden), 30
(statement of Sen. DeConcini), 31 (statement of Sen.
D’Amato), 53 (statement of Assistant Attorney General
Trott).

															   In light of these concerns, it is most
unlikely that Congress meant to enact a money laundering statute
that would present daunting obstacles in the very sort of cases
that had been identified as presenting the most pressing problems,
that is, cases, like the “Pizza Connection” case, in
which law enforcement intercepts cash or wire transfers of funds
derived from drug sales or other unlawful activity that occurred
over a period of time. The plurality opinion’s interpretation
of the term “proceeds,” however, would often produce
such problems. Tracing funds back to particular drug sales and
proving that these sales were profitable will often prove
impossible. See United States v. Bajakajian,
524 U. S. 321,
351–352 (1998) (Kennedy, J., dissenting). Indeed, it
will often be hard even to establish with any precision the period
of time during which the drug sales occurred. But assuming that the
Government can prove roughly when the funds were acquired, the next
hurdle would be to show that the drug ring had net income during
the time when the funds were acquired.

															   “Net income” means “[t]he
excess of revenues over all related expenses for a given
period.” R. Estes, Dictionary of Accounting 88 (1981)
(emphasis deleted). There are no generally accepted accounting
principles for determining the net income of illegal enterprises,
and therefore, in order to apply a net income interpretation,
special accounting rules would have to be developed.

															   In the drug-money cases that I have been
discussing, the courts would have to decide whether the drug
syndicate’s net income should be calculated on an annual,
quarterly, or some other basis. In addition, the courts would be
forced to devise rules for determining the scope of the enterprise
for which the net income calculation must be performed. Suppose,
for example, that there were connections of an uncertain nature or
degree between drug operations in different cities or countries.
Rules would be needed to determine whether affiliated criminal
groups should be regarded as one enterprise or several. And proof
regarding the connections between such operations would often be
very difficult to obtain. Criminal enterprises do not have papers
of incorporation, partnership agreements, or (in most instances)
other documents establishing precise business relationships.

															   Rules would also be needed in order to
determine whether particular illegal expenditures should be
considered as expenses. In the “Pizza Connection” case,
the Sicilian Mafia used its income for such things as the murder of
magistrates, police officers, witnesses, and rivals. See,
e.g., Casamento, supra, at 1154–1156;
United States v. Gambino, 809 F. Supp. 1061,
1065–1068 (SDNY 1992). Are these expenditures simply a cost
of engaging in the drug trade? Are they business expenses?

															   If a net income interpretation were taken to
its logical conclusion, it presumably would be necessary as well to
work out rules for the depreciation of instrumentalities of crime
that must occasionally be replaced due to the efforts of law
enforcement. But it seems quite implausible that Congress wanted
courts or juries in money laundering cases to grapple with
questions such as the useful life of, say, a drug processing plant
or laboratory or the airplanes and boats that are used to smuggle
drugs. And assuming that the accounting issues can ultimately be
resolved by the courts, there would remain serious problems of
proof. Illegal enterprises generally do not keep books and records
like legitimate businesses do.

															   It is tempting to dismiss many of the problems
noted above on the ground that “everyone knows” that
drug cartels, organized crime syndicates, and the like make a
profit. But such groups may not operate in the black at all times,
and in any event, if net income is an element of the money
laundering offense, the prosecution must prove net income beyond a
reasonable doubt. The prosecution cannot simply ask the jury to
take notice of the fact that these groups are profitable.

															   My point in citing the accounting and proof
problems that would be produced by a net income interpretation is
not that the “ ‘receipts’ ”
interpretation is preferable because “it is easier to
prosecute,” ante, at 11 (plurality opinion), but
that creating these obstacles would serve no discernible purpose.
Even if a drug or gambling ring was temporarily operating in the
red during a particular period, the laundering of money acquired
during that time would present the same dangers as the laundering
of money acquired during times of profit. It is therefore
implausible that Congress wanted to throw up such pointless
obstacles.

															   The plurality opinion attempts to minimize all
these problems by stating that “to establish the proceeds
element under the ‘profits’ interpretation, the
prosecution needs to show only that a single instance of specified
unlawful activity was profitable and gave rise to the money
involved in a charged transaction.” Ante, at 12.
This suggestion ignores both the language of the money laundering
statute, which makes no reference to an “instance” of
unlawful activity, and the realities of money laundering
prosecutions. The prototypical money laundering case is not a case
in which a defendant engages in a single, discrete criminal act and
then launders the money derived from that act—for example, a
case in which a “felon . . . uses . . . stolen money to pay
for the rented getaway car.” Ante, at 8. Rather, the
prototypical case involves numerous criminal acts that occur over a
period of time and the accumulation of funds from all these acts
prior to laundering—for example, the organized crime
syndicate or drug cartel that amasses large sums before engaging in
a laundering transaction.

															   Take, for example, a case in which a defendant
is charged with doing what was done in the “Pizza
Connection” case—transferring millions of dollars of
drug money overseas, knowing that the funds represent the proceeds
of drug trafficking (“some form of unlawful activity”)
and that the transfer was designed to conceal the origin of the
funds. See 18 U. S. C. §1956(a)(2)(B)(2). In such a case,
it is unrealistic to think that individual dollars can be traced
back to individual drug sales—or that Congress wanted to
require such tracing.

															   Although the plurality opinion begins by
touting the “single instance” theory as a cure for the
accounting and proof problems that a “profits”
interpretation produces, the plurality’s application of the
“single instance” theory to the case at hand shows that
this theory will not work. In this case, the “unlawful
activity” that produced the funds at issue in the substantive
money laundering counts was the operation of the Santos
lottery,[Footnote 6] and it is
hardly apparent what constitutes a “single instance” of
running a gambling business. Did each lottery drawing represent a
separate “instance”? Each wager? And how long does each
gambling “instance” last? A day? A week? A month?
   When the plurality opinion addresses these
questions, it turns out that “a single instance” means
all instances that are charged, i.e., it means that the
Government had to show that receipts exceeded costs during the time
the defendant allegedly conducted, financed, etc., the gambling
operation. See ante, at 13, n. 7. Here, since the
Indictment alleged that the Santos lottery continued for more than
6 years (“[b]egining in or about January 1989 and continuing
to in or about December 1994, the exact dates being unknown to the
Grand Jury”),[Footnote 7]
the plurality would apparently compel the Government to prove that
the lottery was profitable over this entire period.

															   If this is where the “single
instance” theory leads, the theory plainly does not solve the
accounting and proof problems we have noted. And the
plurality’s suggestion that the Government had to show that
the gambling operation was profitable for this entire period leads
to preposterous results. Suppose that the lottery was profitable
for the first five years and, at the end of each year, respondents
laundered funds derived from the business. Suppose that in the
sixth year the business incurred heavy losses—losses so heavy
that they wiped out all of the profits from the first five years.
According to the plurality, if respondents were found to have
operated the lottery during the entire 6-year period, then the
financial transactions that occurred at the end of years one, two,
three, four, and five would not violate the money laundering
statute, even though an accounting done at those times would have
come to the conclusion that the funds included profits. That result
makes no sense.

															   Whenever a money laundering indictment charges
that the laundered funds derived from an “unlawful
activity” that comprehends numerous acts that occurred over a
considerable period of time—and that is precisely the
situation in many of the types of cases that the money laundering
statute principally targeted—the plurality opinion’s
interpretation will produce difficulties. I have already discussed
drug and gambling cases, and similar problems will arise in cases
in which the unlawful activity is a form of fraud. For example, the
unlawful activity in mail fraud (18 U. S. C. §1341) is
the scheme to defraud, not the individual mailings carried out in
furtherance of the scheme. See Neder v. United
States, 527 U. S.
1, 19 (1999); United States v. Mankarious,
151 F. 3d 694 (CA7 1998). In such a case, what will constitute
the “single instance of unlawful activity”? Will each
mailing be a separate “instance”? The same problem
arises with other fraud predicates, including wire fraud
(§1343), see, e.g., United States v.
Zvi, 168 F. 3d 49 (CA2 1999), and financial
institution fraud (§1344), see, e.g., United States
v. Farr, 69 F. 3d 545 (CA9 1995).

															   The plurality opinion suggests that the
application of a profits interpretation will be easy in cases in
which the financial transactions are payments of
“expenses.” Ante, at 9. But it may be no small
matter to determine whether particular payments are for
“expenses.” When the manager of a gambling operation
distributes cash to those who work in the operation, the manager
may be paying them the rough equivalent of a salary; that is, the
recipients may expect to receive a certain amount for their
services whether or not the operation is profitable. On the other
hand, those who work in the operation may have the expectation of
receiving a certain percentage of the gross revenue (perhaps even
in addition to a salary), in which case their distribution may
include profits. Such was the case in Santos’ lottery, where
the runners were paid a percentage of gross revenue. See Indictment
5; 16 Tr. 1399 (Oct. 9, 1997).

															   The plurality opinion cites 18 U. S. C.
§1963(a) and 21 U. S. C. §853(a), for the
proposition that Congress has “elsewhere” imposed the
burden of proving that illegally obtained funds represent profits,
but the plurality opinion’s examples are inapposite.
Ante, at 12. Neither of these provisions, however,
requires a determination of net income. Both provisions permit a
fine in the amount of “not more than twice the gross profits
or other proceeds.” 18 U. S. C. §1963(a). Thus, the
term “proceeds” as used in these provisions is not
limited to profits.[Footnote
8]

															    For all these reasons, I am convinced that
the term “proceeds” in the money laundering statute
means gross receipts, not net income. And contrary to the approach
taken by Justice Stevens, I do not see how the meaning of the term
“proceeds” can vary depending on the nature of the
illegal activity that produced the laundered funds.

															II

															A

															   It is apparent that a chief
reason for interpreting the term “proceeds” to mean net
income in all money laundering cases (the approach taken in the
plurality opinion) or in some money laundering cases (the approach
taken by Justice Stevens) is the desire to avoid a
“merger” problem in gambling cases—that is, to
avoid an interpretation that would mean that every violation of
§1955 (conducting an illegal gambling business) would also
constitute a violation of the money laundering statute, which
carries a much higher maximum penalty (20 as opposed to 5
years’ imprisonment). This concern is misplaced and provides
no justification for hobbling a statute that applies to more than
250 predicate offenses and not just running an illegal gambling
business.

															   First, the so-called merger
problem is fundamentally a sentencing problem, and the proper
remedy is a sentencing remedy. While it is true that the money
laundering statute has a higher maximum sentence than the gambling
business statute, neither statute has a mandatory minimum. Thus,
these statutes do not require a judge to increase a
defendant’s sentence simply because the defendant was
convicted of money laundering as well as running a gambling
business. When the respondents were convicted, their money
laundering convictions resulted in higher sentences only because of
the money laundering Sentencing Guideline, United States Sentencing
Commission, Guidelines Manual §2S1.1 (Nov. 1997) (USSG),
which, in the pre-Booker [Footnote 9] era, was mandatory. I agree with Justice
Breyer, ante, at 2–3 (dissenting opinion), that if a
defendant is convicted of money laundering for doing no more than
is required for a violation of 18 U. S. C. §1955, the
defendant’s sentence should be no higher than it would have
been if the defendant had violated only that latter provision.
Insofar as the Guidelines previously required—and now advise
in favor of—a stiffer sentence, the obvious remedy is an
amendment of the money laundering Guideline. And of course, now
that the Guidelines are no longer mandatory, a sentencing judge
could impose the sentence called for by the Guideline that applies
to the gambling business provision, see USSG §2E3.1(a)(1)
(Nov. 2007), or an entirely different sentence.

															   Second, the merger problem that the plurality
opinion and Justice Stevens seek to avoid assumes the correctness
of the interpretation of the promotion prong of the money
laundering statute that the Seventh Circuit adopted in
Santos’ direct appeal, i.e., that a defendant
“promotes” an illegal gambling business by doing those
things, such as paying employees and winning bettors, that are
needed merely to keep the business running. As Santos’ brief
puts it, the merger problem arises when the interpretation of
“proceeds” as gross receipts is “[c]ombined with
the Government’s broad application of the
‘promotion’ prong of the money laundering
statute.” Brief for Respondent 6. But the meaning of the
element of promotion is not before us in this case, and it would
not make sense to allow our interpretation of
“proceeds” to be dictated by an unreviewed
interpretation of another statutory element.

															   Third, even if there is a merger problem, it
occurs in only a subset of money laundering cases. The money
laundering statute reaches financial transactions that are intended
to promote more than 250 other crimes, ante, at 9
(plurality opinion), as well as transactions that are intended to
conceal or disguise the nature, location, source, ownership, or
control of illegally obtained funds. See 18 U. S. C.
§1956(a). The meaning of the term “proceeds”
cannot vary from one money laundering case to the next, and the
plurality opinion and Justice Stevens inappropriately allow the
interpretation of that term to be controlled by a problem that may
arise in only a subset of cases.

															B

															   The plurality opinion defends its
interpretation by invoking the rule of lenity, but the rule of
lenity does not require us to put aside the usual tools of
statutory interpretation or to adopt the narrowest possible
dictionary definition of the terms in a criminal statute. On the
contrary, “[b]ecause the meaning of language is inherently
contextual, we have declined to deem a statute
‘ambiguous’ for purposes of lenity merely because it
was possible to articulate a construction more narrow than
that urged by the Government.” Moskal v. United
States, 498 U.
S. 103, 108 (1990) (citing McElroy v. United
States, 455 U.
S. 642, 657–658 (1982)). As I have explained above, the
meaning of “proceeds” in the money laundering statute
emerges with reasonable clarity when the term is viewed in context,
making the rule of lenity inapplicable.

															*  *  *

															   For these reasons, I would
reverse the decision of the Court of Appeals, and I therefore
respectfully dissent.
Footnote 1

															 In light of the plurality opinion’s
discussion of “the stare decisis effect of Justice
Stevens’ opinion,” ante, at 16, it must be
noted that five Justices agree with the position taken by Justice
Stevens on the matter discussed in the preceding sentence of the
text.
Footnote 2

															 See Multilateral Treaties Deposited with the
Secretary-General, pt. I, ch. XVIII, No. 12, United Nations
Convention against Transnational Crime (Nov. 15, 2007), online at
http://untreaty.un.org/
ENGLISH / bible / englishinternetbible / partI /chapterXVIII/ treaty13.asp
(all Internet materials as visited May 29, 2008, and available in
Clerk of Court’s case file).
Footnote 3

															 If 18 U. S. C. §1956 were limited
to profits, it would be narrower than the obligation that the
United States undertook in Article 6.1 of the Convention, but the
Department of State has taken the position that no new legislation
is needed to bring the United States into compliance. See Hearing
on Law Enforcement Treaties before the Senate Committee on Foreign
Relations, 108th Cong., 2d Sess., 10 (2004) (statement of Samuel M.
Witten, Deputy Legal Adviser (“[W]e can comply with the
Convention’s criminalization obligations without the need for
new legislation”)).
Footnote 4

															 Connecticut, the only State with a money
laundering statute that does not use the term
“proceeds,” uses equivalent language that is not
limited to profits. See Conn. Gen. Stat. §53a–276 (2005)
(“A person is guilty for money laundering in the first degree
when he exchanges … one or more monetary instruments
derived from criminal conduct constituting a felony”). I have
found no money laundering statute that defines
“proceeds” to mean profits or that uses other language
that limits the law’s reach to profits or net income.

															   The only state money laundering statute the
even uses the term “profits,” “net income,”
or something similar is that of Arkansas, which plainly defines
“criminal proceeds” to include all gross receipts of
criminal conduct: “ ‘Criminal proceeds’
means: (A) Anything of value furnished or intended to be furnished
in exchange for criminal conduct or contraband received in
violation of state or federal law; and (B) Property or profits
traceable to” such an exchange. Ark. Code Ann.
§5–42–203(5) (2006).
Footnote 5

															 The version of the money laundering statute
originally passed by the House reflected a similar legislative
judgment. The bill made it a crime to engage in financial
transactions and certain commercial transactions involving
“criminally derived property that is derived from a
designated offense.” H. R. 5484, 99th Cong., 2d Sess.,
§602, p. 154 (1986) (as introduced). The term
“criminally derived property” is naturally understood
to include all property that is “receive[d]” or
“obtain[ed]” as a result of criminal activity, see
Webster’s 3d 609; Random House Dictionary of the English
Language 389 (1967), and thus to include all gross receipts and not
just profit. The House bill defined the term “criminally
derived property” to mean “any property constituting,
or derived from, proceeds obtained from a criminal
offense.” H. R. 5484, §602, at 158 (emphasis
added). Accordingly, the House seems to have understood
“proceeds” to include gross receipts.

															   The bill passed by the Senate, like the
current money laundering statute, simply used the term
“proceeds,” S. 2683, 99th Cong., 2d Sess., §2(a)
(1986), and the House acceded to the Senate version. See H. R.
5484, 99th Cong., 2d Sess., §1352, p. 48 (1986) (as enacted).
There is no suggestion in the legislative history that the term
“criminally derived property” and the term
“proceeds” were perceived as having different
meanings.
Footnote 6

															 See Indictment in United States v.
Alameda, No. 2:96 CR–044 RL (ND Ind., May 10, 1996),
pp. 3, 14–25 (hereinafter Indictment).
Footnote 7

															 See id., at 3.
Footnote 8

															 In 18 U. S. C. §981(a)(2)(B), which
is a forfeiture provision of limited scope, Congress defines the
term “proceeds” to mean net income. However, that
definition applies only “[i]n cases involving lawful goods or
lawful services that are sold or provided in an illegal
manner.” Calculating net income in that situation is easier
than it would be in most money laundering cases, and it is
noteworthy that Congress took care to provide rules and procedures
to be used in making the calculation. See ibid. If
Congress had intended to require proof of net income in money
laundering cases, it is likely that Congress likewise would have
specified the rules and procedures to be used. It is noteworthy
that subparagraph (A) of §981(a)(2), which the plurality
opinion does not mention, provides that in cases that are more
analogous to the typical money laundering case, i.e.,
“cases involving illegal goods [or] illegal services,”
the term “proceeds” “means [any] property of any
kind obtained directly or indirectly, as the result of the
commission of the offense giving rise to forfeiture, and any
property traceable thereto, and is not limited to the net gain or
profit realized from the offense.”
Footnote 9

															 United States v. Booker,
543 U. S. 220
(2005).

													
