::SCDB_caseID:: 2007-035
::decision_cite:: 553 U.S. 181 (2008)
::decision_name::  Crawford v. Marion County Election Bd.
::decision_year:: 2008
::opinion_author:: Stevens
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 


OPINION OF STEVENS, J.
CRAWFORD V. MARION COUNTY ELECTION BD.
553 U. S. ____ (2008)

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NOS. 07-21 AND 07-25

															WILLIAM CRAWFORD, et al., PETITIONERS

															07–21   v.
MARION COUNTY ELECTION BOARD
et al.
INDIANA DEMOCRATIC PARTY, et al.,
PETITIONERS

															07–25   v.
TODD ROKITA, INDIANA SECRETARY OF STATE,
et al.
on writs of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the seventh circuit
[April 28, 2008]
   Justice Stevens
announced the judgment of the Court and delivered an opinion in
which The Chief Justice and Justice Kennedy join.

															   At issue in these cases is the
constitutionality of an Indiana statute requiring citizens voting
in person on election day, or casting a ballot in person at the
office of the circuit court clerk prior to election day, to present
photo identification issued by the government.

															   Referred to as either the “Voter ID
Law” or “SEA 483,”[Footnote 1] the statute applies to in-person voting at
both primary and general elections. The requirement does not apply
to absentee ballots submitted by mail, and the statute contains an
exception for persons living and voting in a state-licensed
facility such as a nursing home. Ind. Code Ann.
§3–11–8–25.1(e) (West Supp. 2007). A voter
who is indigent or has a religious objection to being photographed
may cast a provisional ballot that will be counted only if she
executes an appropriate affidavit before the circuit court clerk
within 10 days following the election.
§§3–11.7–5–1,
3–11.7–5–2.5(c) (West 2006).[Footnote 2] A voter who has photo identification
but is unable to present that identification on election day may
file a provisional ballot that will be counted if she brings her
photo identification to the circuit county clerk’s office
within 10 days. §3–11.7–5–2.5(b). No photo
identification is required in order to register to vote,[Footnote 3] and the State offers free
photo identification to qualified voters able to establish their
residence and identity. §9–24–16–10(b) (West
Supp. 2007).[Footnote 4]

															   Promptly after the enactment of SEA 483 in
2005, the Indiana Democratic Party and the Marion County Democratic
Central Committee (Democrats) filed suit in the Federal District
Court for the Southern District of Indiana against the state
officials responsible for its enforcement, seeking a judgment
declaring the Voter ID Law invalid and enjoining its enforcement. A
second suit seeking the same relief was brought on behalf of two
elected officials and several nonprofit organizations representing
groups of elderly, disabled, poor, and minority voters.[Footnote 5] The cases were
consolidated, and the State of Indiana intervened to defend the
validity of the statute.

															   The complaints in the consolidated cases
allege that the new law substantially burdens the right to vote in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; that it is neither a
necessary nor appropriate method of avoiding election fraud; and
that it will arbitrarily disfranchise qualified voters who do not
possess the required identification and will place an unjustified
burden on those who cannot readily obtain such identification.
Second Amended Complaint in No. 1:
05–CV–0634–SEB–VSS (SD Ind.),
pp. 6–9 (hereinafter Second Amended Complaint).

															   After discovery, District Judge Barker
prepared a comprehensive 70-page opinion explaining her decision to
grant defendants’ motion for summary judgment. 458
F. Supp. 2d 775 (SD Ind. 2006). She found that petitioners had
“not introduced evidence of a single, individual Indiana
resident who will be unable to vote as a result of SEA 483 or who
will have his or her right to vote unduly burdened by its
requirements.” Id., at 783. She rejected “as
utterly incredible and unreliable” an expert’s report
that up to 989,000 registered voters in Indiana did not possess
either a driver’s license or other acceptable photo
identification. Id., at 803. She estimated that as of
2005, when the statute was enacted, around 43,000 Indiana residents
lacked a state-issued driver’s license or identification
card. Id., at 807.[Footnote 6]

															   A divided panel of the Court of Appeals
affirmed. 472 F. 3d 949 (CA7 2007). The majority first held
that the Democrats had standing to bring a facial challenge to the
constitutionality of SEA 483. Next, noting the absence of any
plaintiffs who claimed that the law would deter them from voting,
the Court of Appeals inferred that “the motivation for the
suit is simply that the law may require the Democratic Party and
the other organizational plaintiffs to work harder to get every
last one of their supporters to the polls.” Id., at
952. It rejected the argument that the law should be judged by the
same strict standard applicable to a poll tax because the burden on
voters was offset by the benefit of reducing the risk of fraud. The
dissenting judge, viewing the justification for the law as
“hollow”—more precisely as “a
not-too-thinly-veiled attempt to discourage election-day turnout by
certain folks believed to skew Democratic”—would have
applied a stricter standard, something he described as “close
to ‘strict scrutiny light.’ ” Id.,
at 954, 956 (opinion of Evans, J.). In his view, the “law
imposes an undue burden on a recognizable segment of potential
eligible voters” and therefore violates their rights under
the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution.
Id., at 956–957.

															   Four judges voted to grant a petition for
rehearing en banc. 484 F. 3d 437 (CA7 2007) (Wood, J.,
dissenting from denial of rehearing en banc). Because we agreed
with their assessment of the importance of these cases, we granted
certiorari. 551 U. S. ___ (2007). We are, however, persuaded that
the District Court and the Court of Appeals correctly concluded
that the evidence in the record is not sufficient to support a
facial attack on the validity of the entire statute, and thus
affirm.[Footnote 7]

															I

															   In Harper v.
Virginia Bd. of Elections, 383 U. S. 663 (1966),
the Court held that Virginia could not condition the right to vote
in a state election on the payment of a poll tax of $1.50. We
rejected the dissenters’ argument that the interest in
promoting civic responsibility by weeding out those voters who did
not care enough about public affairs to pay a small sum for the
privilege of voting provided a rational basis for the tax. See
id., at 685 (opinion of Harlan, J.). Applying a stricter
standard, we concluded that a State “violates the Equal
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment whenever it makes the
affluence of the voter or payment of any fee an electoral
standard.” Id., at 666 (opinion of the Court). We
used the term “invidiously discriminate” to describe
conduct prohibited under that standard, noting that we had
previously held that while a State may obviously impose
“reasonable residence restrictions on the availability of the
ballot,” it “may not deny the opportunity to vote to a
bona fide resident merely because he is a member of the armed
services.” Id., at 666–667 (citing
Carrington v. Rash, 380 U. S. 89, 96 (1965)).
Although the State’s justification for the tax was rational,
it was invidious because it was irrelevant to the voter’s
qualifications.

															   Thus, under the standard applied
in Harper, even rational restrictions on the right to vote
are invidious if they are unrelated to voter qualifications. In
Anderson v. Celebrezze, 460 U. S. 780 (1983),
however, we confirmed the general rule that “evenhanded
restrictions that protect the integrity and reliability of the
electoral process itself” are not invidious and satisfy the
standard set forth in Harper. 460 U. S., at 788,
n. 9. Rather than applying any “litmus test” that
would neatly separate valid from invalid restrictions, we concluded
that a court must identify and evaluate the interests put forward
by the State as justifications for the burden imposed by its rule,
and then make the “hard judgment” that our adversary
system demands.

															   In later election cases we have followed
Anderson’s balancing approach. Thus, in
Norman v. Reed, 502 U. S. 279,
288–289 (1992), after identifying the burden Illinois imposed
on a political party’s access to the ballot, we “called
for the demonstration of a corresponding interest sufficiently
weighty to justify the limitation,” and concluded
that the “severe restriction” was not justified by a
narrowly drawn state interest of compelling importance. Later, in
Burdick v. Takushi, 504 U. S. 428 (1992), we
applied Anderson’s standard for
“ ‘reasonable, nondiscriminatory
restrictions,’ ” 504 U. S., at 434, and upheld
Hawaii’s prohibition on write-in voting despite the fact that
it prevented a significant number of “voters from
participating in Hawaii elections in a meaningful manner.”
Id., at 443 (Kennedy, J., dissenting). We reaffirmed
Anderson’s requirement that a court evaluating a
constitutional challenge to an election regulation weigh the
asserted injury to the right to vote against the
“ ‘precise interests put forward by the State as
justifications for the burden imposed by its
rule.’ ” 504 U. S., at 434 (quoting
Anderson, 460 U. S., at 789).[Footnote 8]

															   In neither Norman nor
Burdick did we identify any litmus test for measuring the
severity of a burden that a state law imposes on a political party,
an individual voter, or a discrete class of voters. However slight
that burden may appear, as Harper demonstrates, it must be
justified by relevant and legitimate state interests
“sufficiently weighty to justify the limitation.”
Norman, 502 U. S., at 288–289. We therefore begin
our analysis of the con- stitutionality of Indiana’s statute
by focusing on those interests.

															II

															   The State has identified several
state interests that arguably justify the burdens that SEA 483
imposes on voters and potential voters. While petitioners argue
that the statute was actually motivated by partisan concerns and
dispute both the significance of the State’s interests and
the magnitude of any real threat to those interests, they do not
question the legitimacy of the interests the State has identified.
Each is unquestionably relevant to the State’s interest in
protecting the integrity and reliability of the electoral
process.

															   The first is the interest in
deterring and detecting voter fraud. The State has a valid interest
in participating in a nationwide effort to improve and modernize
election procedures that have been criticized as antiquated and
inefficient.[Footnote 9] The
State also argues that it has a particular interest in preventing
voter fraud in response to a problem that is in part the product of
its own maladministration—namely, that Indiana’s voter
registration rolls include a large number of names of persons who
are either deceased or no longer live in Indiana. Finally, the
State relies on its interest in safeguarding voter confidence. Each
of these interests merits separate comment.

															Election Modernization
   Two recently enacted federal
statutes have made it necessary for States to reexamine their
election procedures. Both contain provisions consistent with a
State’s choice to use government-issued photo identification
as a relevant source of information concerning a citizen’s
eligibility to vote.
   In the National Voter
Registration Act of 1993 (NVRA), 107 Stat. 77, 42 U. S. C.
§1973gg et seq., Congress established procedures that
would both increase the number of registered voters and protect the
integrity of the electoral process. §1973gg. The statute
requires state motor vehicle driver’s license applications to
serve as voter registration applications. §1973gg–3.
While that requirement has increased the number of registered
voters, the statute also contains a provision restricting
States’ ability to remove names from the lists of registered
voters. §1973gg–6(a)(3). These protections have been
partly responsible for inflated lists of registered voters. For
example, evidence credited by Judge Barker estimated that as of
2004 Indiana’s voter rolls were inflated by as much as 41.4%,
see 458 F. Supp. 2d, at 793, and data collected by the
Election Assistance Committee in 2004 indicated that 19 of 92
Indiana counties had registration totals exceeding 100% of the 2004
voting-age population, Dept. of Justice Complaint in United
States v. Indiana, No.
1:06–cv–1000–RLY–TAB (SD Ind., June 27,
2006), p. 4, App. 313.

															   In HAVA, Congress required every State to
create and maintain a computerized statewide list of all registered
voters. 42 U. S. C. §15483(a) (2000 ed., Supp. V). HAVA
also requires the States to verify voter information contained in a
voter registration application and specifies either an
“applicant’s driver’s license number” or
“the last 4 digits of the applicant’s social security
number” as acceptable verifications. §15483(a)(5)(A)(i).
If an indi- vidual has neither number, the State is required to
assign the applicant a voter identification number.
§15483(a)(5)(A)(ii).

															   HAVA also imposes new identification
requirements for individuals registering to vote for the first time
who submit their applications by mail. If the voter is casting his
ballot in person, he must present local election officials with
written identification, which may be either “a current and
valid photo identification” or another form of documentation
such as a bank statement or paycheck. §15483(b)(2)(A). If the
voter is voting by mail, he must include a copy of the
identification with his ballot. A voter may also include a copy of
the documentation with his application or provide his
driver’s license number or Social Security number for
verification. §15483(b)(3). Finally, in a provision entitled
“Fail-safe voting,” HAVA authorizes the casting of
provisional ballots by challenged voters. §15483(b)(2)(B).

															   Of course, neither HAVA nor NVRA required
Indiana to enact SEA 483, but they do indicate that Congress
believes that photo identification is one effective method of
establishing a voter’s qualification to vote and that the
integrity of elections is enhanced through improved technology.
That conclusion is also supported by a report issued shortly after
the enactment of SEA 483 by the Commission on Federal Election
Reform chaired by former President Jimmy Carter and former
Secretary of State James A. Baker III, which is a part of the
record in these cases. In the introduction to their discussion of
voter identification, they made these pertinent comments:

															“A good registration list will ensure that
citizens are only registered in one place, but election officials
still need to make sure that the person arriving at a polling site
is the same one that is named on the registration list. In the old
days and in small towns where everyone knows each other, voters did
not need to identify themselves. But in the United States, where 40
million people move each year, and in urban areas where some people
do not even know the people living in their own apartment building
let alone their precinct, some form of identification is
needed.

															   “There is no evidence of extensive fraud
in U. S. elections or of multiple voting, but both occur, and it
could affect the outcome of a close election. The electoral system
cannot inspire public confidence if no safeguards exist to deter or
detect fraud or to confirm the identity of voters. Photo
identification cards currently are needed to board a plane, enter
federal buildings, and cash a check. Voting is equally
important.” Commission on Federal Election Reform, Report,
Building Confidence in U. S. Elections §2.5 (Sept. 2005), App.
136–137 (Carter-Baker Report) (footnote omitted).[Footnote 10]

															Voter Fraud
   The only kind of voter fraud
that SEA 483 addresses is in-person voter impersonation at polling
places. The record contains no evidence of any such fraud actually
occurring in Indiana at any time in its history. Moreover,
petitioners argue that provisions of the Indiana Criminal Code
punishing such conduct as a felony provide adequate protection
against the risk that such conduct will occur in the future. It
remains true, however, that flagrant examples of such fraud in
other parts of the country have been documented throughout this
Nation’s history by respected historians and
journalists,[Footnote 11]
that occasional examples have surfaced in recent years,[Footnote 12] and that
Indiana’s own experience with fraudulent voting in the 2003
Democratic primary for East Chicago Mayor[Footnote 13]—though perpetrated using absentee
ballots and not in-person fraud—demonstrate that not only is
the risk of voter fraud real but that it could affect the outcome
of a close election.
   There is no question about
the legitimacy or importance of the State’s interest in
counting only the votes of eligible voters. Moreover, the interest
in orderly administration and accurate recordkeeping provides a
sufficient justification for carefully identifying all voters
participating in the election process. While the most effective
method of preventing election fraud may well be debatable, the
propriety of doing so is perfectly clear.
   In its brief, the State argues that the
inflation of its voter rolls provides further support for its
enactment of SEA 483. The record contains a November 5, 2000,
newspaper article asserting that as a result of NVRA and
“sloppy record keeping,” Indiana’s lists of
registered voters included the names of thousands of persons who
had either moved, died, or were not eligible to vote because they
had been convicted of felonies.[Footnote 14] The conclusion that Indiana has an unusually
inflated list of registered voters is supported by the entry of a
consent decree in litigation brought by the Federal Government
alleging violations of NVRA. Consent Decree and Order in United
States v. Indiana, No.
1:06–cv–1000–RLY–TAB (SD Ind., June 27,
2006), App. 299–307. Even though Indiana’s own
negligence may have contributed to the serious inflation of its
registration lists when SEA 483 was enacted, the fact of inflated
voter rolls does provide a neutral and nondiscriminatory reason
supporting the State’s decision to require photo
identification.

															Safeguarding Voter Confidence
   Finally, the State contends
that it has an interest in protecting public confidence “in
the integrity and legitimacy of representative government.”
Brief for State Respondents, No. 07-25, p. 53. While that interest
is closely related to the State’s interest in preventing
voter fraud, public confidence in the integrity of the electoral
process has independent significance, because it encourages citizen
participation in the democratic process. As the Carter-Baker Report
observed, the “electoral system cannot inspire public
confidence if no safeguards exist to deter or detect fraud or to
confirm the identity of voters.” Supra, at 10.

															III

															   States employ different methods
of identifying eligible voters at the polls. Some merely check off
the names of registered voters who identify themselves; others
require voters to present registration cards or other documentation
before they can vote; some require voters to sign their names so
their signatures can be compared with those on file; and in recent
years an increasing number of States have relied primarily on photo
identification.[Footnote 15]
A photo identification requirement imposes some burdens on voters
that other methods of identification do not share. For example, a
voter may lose his photo identification, may have his wallet stolen
on the way to the polls, or may not resemble the photo in the
identification because he recently grew a beard. Burdens of that
sort arising from life’s vagaries, however, are neither so
serious nor so frequent as to raise any question about the
constitutionality of SEA 483; the availability of the right to cast
a provisional ballot provides an adequate remedy for problems of
that character.

															   The burdens that are relevant to
the issue before us are those imposed on persons who are eligible
to vote but do not possess a current photo identification that
complies with the requirements of SEA 483.[Footnote 16] The fact that most voters already
possess a valid driver’s license, or some other form of
acceptable identification, would not save the statute under our
reasoning in Harper, if the State required voters to pay a
tax or a fee to obtain a new photo identification. But just as
other States provide free voter registration cards, the photo
identification cards issued by Indiana’s BMV are also free.
For most voters who need them, the inconvenience of making a trip
to the BMV, gathering the required documents, and posing for a
photograph surely does not qualify as a substantial burden on the
right to vote, or even represent a significant increase over the
usual burdens of voting.[Footnote 17]

															   Both evidence in the record and facts of which
we may take judicial notice, however, indicate that a somewhat
heavier burden may be placed on a limited number of persons. They
include elderly persons born out-of-state, who may have difficulty
obtaining a birth certificate;[Footnote 18] persons who because of economic or other
personal limitations may find it difficult either to secure a copy
of their birth certificate or to assemble the other required
documentation to obtain a state-issued identification; homeless
persons; and persons with a religious objection to being
photographed. If we assume, as the evidence suggests, that some
members of these classes were registered voters when SEA 483 was
enacted, the new identification requirement may have imposed a
special burden on their right to vote.

															   The severity of that burden is, of course,
mitigated by the fact that, if eligible, voters without photo
identification may cast provisional ballots that will ultimately be
counted. To do so, however, they must travel to the circuit court
clerk’s office within 10 days to execute the required
affidavit. It is unlikely that such a requirement would pose a
constitutional problem unless it is wholly unjustified. And even
assuming that the burden may not be justified as to a few
voters,[Footnote 19] that
conclusion is by no means sufficient to establish
petitioners’ right to the relief they seek in this
litigation.

															IV

															   Given the fact that petitioners
have advanced a broad attack on the constitutionality of SEA 483,
seeking relief that would invalidate the statute in all its
applications, they bear a heavy burden of persuasion. Only a few
weeks ago we held that the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
had failed to give appropriate weight to the magnitude of that
burden when it sustained a preelection, facial attack on a
Washington statute regulating that State’s primary election
procedures. Washington State Grange v. Washington
State Republican Party, 552 U. S. ___ (2008). Our reasoning in
that case applies with added force to the arguments advanced by
petitioners in these cases.

															   Petitioners ask this Court, in
effect, to perform a unique balancing analysis that looks
specifically at a small number of voters who may experience a
special burden under the statute and weighs their burdens against
the State’s broad interests in protecting election integrity.
Petitioners urge us to ask whether the State’s interests
justify the burden imposed on voters who cannot afford or obtain a
birth certificate and who must make a second trip to the circuit
court clerk’s office after voting. But on the basis of the
evidence in the record it is not possible to quantify either the
magnitude of the burden on this narrow class of voters or the
portion of the burden imposed on them that is fully justified.

															   First, the evidence in the record does not
provide us with the number of registered voters without photo
identification; Judge Barker found petitioners’
expert’s report to be “utterly incredible and
unreliable.” 458 F. Supp. 2d, at 803. Much of the
argument about the numbers of such voters comes from extrarecord,
postjudgment studies, the accuracy of which has not been tested in
the trial court.

															   Further, the deposition evidence presented in
the District Court does not provide any concrete evidence of the
burden imposed on voters who currently lack photo identification.
The record includes depositions of two case managers at a day
shelter for homeless persons and the depositions of members of the
plaintiff organizations, none of whom expressed a personal
inability to vote under SEA 483. A deposition from a named
plaintiff describes the difficulty the elderly woman had in
obtaining an identification card, although her testimony indicated
that she intended to return to the BMV since she had recently
obtained her birth certificate and that she was able to pay the
birth certificate fee. App. 94.

															   Judge Barker’s opinion makes reference
to six other elderly named plaintiffs who do not have photo
identifications, but several of these individuals have birth
certificates or were born in Indiana and have not indicated how
difficult it would be for them to obtain a birth certificate. 458
F. Supp. 2d, at 797–799. One elderly named plaintiff
stated that she had attempted to obtain a birth certificate from
Tennessee, but had not been successful, and another testified that
he did not know how to obtain a birth certificate from North
Carolina. The elderly in Indiana, however, may have an easier time
obtaining a photo identification card than the nonelderly, see
n. 17, supra, and although it may not be a completely
acceptable alternative, the elderly in Indiana are able to vote
absentee without presenting photo identification.

															   The record says virtually nothing about the
difficulties faced by either indigent voters or voters with
religious objections to being photographed. While one elderly man
stated that he did not have the money to pay for a birth
certificate, when asked if he did not have the money or did not
wish to spend it, he replied, “both.” App.
211–212. From this limited evidence we do not know the
magnitude of the impact SEA 483 will have on indigent voters in
Indiana. The record does contain the affidavit of one homeless
woman who has a copy of her birth certificate, but was denied a
photo identification card because she did not have an address.
Id., at 67. But that single affidavit gives no indication
of how common the problem is.

															   In sum, on the basis of the record that has
been made in this litigation, we cannot conclude that the statute
imposes “excessively burdensome requirements” on any
class of voters. See Storer v. Brown, 415 U. S. 724, 738
(1974).[Footnote 20] A
facial challenge must fail where the statute has a
“ ‘plainly legitimate sweep.’ ”
Washington State Grange, 552 U. S., at ___ (quoting
Washington v. Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702,
739–740, and n. 7 (1997) (Stevens, J., concurring in
judgments)). When we consider only the statute’s broad
application to all Indiana voters we conclude that it
“imposes only a limited burden on voters’
rights.” Burdick, 504 U. S., at 439. The
“ ‘precise interests’ ” advanced
by the State are therefore sufficient to defeat petitioners’
facial challenge to SEA 483. Id., at 434.

															   Finally we note that petitioners have not
demonstrated that the proper remedy—even assuming an
unjustified burden on some voters—would be to invalidate the
entire statute. When evaluating a neutral, nondiscriminatory
regulation of voting procedure, “[w]e must keep in mind that
“ ‘[a] ruling of unconstitutionality frustrates
the intent of the elected representatives of the
people.’ ” Ayotte v. Planned
Parenthood of Northern New Eng., 546 U. S. 320, 329
(2006) (quoting Regan v. Time, Inc., 468 U. S. 641, 652
(1984) (plurality opinion))” Washington State
Grange, 552 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8).

															V

															   In their briefs, petitioners
stress the fact that all of the Republicans in the General Assembly
voted in favor of SEA 483 and the Democrats were unanimous in
opposing it.[Footnote 21] In
her opinion rejecting petitioners’ facial challenge, Judge
Barker noted that the litigation was the result of a partisan
dispute that had “spilled out of the state house into the
courts.” 458 F. Supp. 2d, at 783. It is fair to infer
that partisan considerations may have played a significant role in
the decision to enact SEA 483. If such considerations had provided
the only justification for a photo identification requirement, we
may also assume that SEA 483 would suffer the same fate as the poll
tax at issue in Harper.
   But if a nondiscriminatory
law is supported by valid neutral justifications, those
justifications should not be disregarded simply because partisan
interests may have provided one motivation for the votes of
individual legislators. The state interests identified as
justifications for SEA 483 are both neutral and sufficiently strong
to require us to reject petitioners’ facial attack on the
statute. The application of the statute to the vast majority of
Indiana voters is amply justified by the valid interest in
protecting “the integrity and reliability of the electoral
process.” Anderson, 460 U. S., at 788, n. 9.

															   The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
affirmed.

															It is so ordered.
Footnote 1

															 Senate Enrolled Act No. 483, 2005 Ind. Acts
p. 2005.
Footnote 2

															 The affidavit must state that (1) the person
executing the affidavit is the same individual who cast the
provisional ballot on election day; and (2) the affiant is indigent
and unable to obtain proof of identification without paying a fee
or has a religious objection to being photographed. Ind. Code Ann.
§3–11–7.5–2.5(c) (West 2006). If the
election board determines that the challenge to the affiant was
based solely on a failure to present photo identification, the
“county election board shall … find that the
voter’s provisional ballot is valid.”
§3–11–7.5–2.5(d).
Footnote 3

															 Voters registering to vote for the first time
in Indiana must abide by the requirements of the Help America Vote
Act of 2002 (HAVA), 116 Stat. 1666, described infra, at
8–9.
Footnote 4

															 Indiana previously imposed a fee on all
residents seeking a state-issued photo identification. At the same
time that the Indiana Legislature enacted SEA 483, it also directed
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles (BMV) to remove all fees for
state-issued photo identification for individuals without a
driver’s license who are at least 18 years old. See 2005 Ind.
Acts p. 2017, §18.
Footnote 5

															 Specifically, the plaintiffs were William
Crawford, Joseph Simpson, Concerned Clergy of Indianapolis,
Indianapolis Resource Center for Independent Living, Indiana
Coalition on Housing and Homeless Issues, Indianapolis Branch of
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and
United Senior Action of Indiana. Complaint in No. 49012050 4PL01
6207 (Super. Ct. Marion Cty., Ind., Apr. 28, 2005), p. 2.
Footnote 6

															 She added: “In other words, an
estimated 99% of Indiana’s voting age population already
possesses the necessary photo identification to vote under the
requirements of SEA 483.” 458 F. Supp. 2d, at 807. Given
the availability of free photo identification and greater public
awareness of the new statutory requirement, presumably that
percentage has increased since SEA 483 was enacted and will
continue to increase in the future.
Footnote 7

															 We also agree with the unanimous view of
those judges that the Democrats have standing to challenge the
validity of SEA 483 and that there is no need to decide whether the
other petitioners also have standing.
Footnote 8

															    Contrary to Justice
Scalia’s suggestion, see post, at 2 (opinion
concurring in judgment), our approach remains faithful to
Anderson and Burdick. The Burdick
opinion was explicit in its endorsement and adherence to
Anderson, see 504 U. S., at 434, and repeatedly cited
Anderson, see 504 U. S., at 436, n. 5, 440, n. 9, 441. To
be sure, Burdick rejected the argument that strict
scrutiny applies to all laws imposing a burden on the right to
vote; but in its place, the Court applied the
“ ‘flexible standard’ ” set forth
in Anderson. Burdick surely did not create a
novel “deferential ‘important regulatory
interests’ standard.” See post, at
1–2.
Footnote 9

															 See National Commission on Federal Election
Reform, To Assure Pride and Confidence in the Electoral Process 18
(2002) (with Honorary Co-chairs former Presidents Gerald Ford and
Jimmy Carter).
Footnote 10

															 The historical perceptions of the
Carter-Baker Report can largely be confirmed. The average precinct
size in the United States has increased in the last century,
suggesting that it is less likely that poll workers will be
personally acquainted with voters. For example, at the time Joseph
Harris wrote his groundbreaking 1934 report on election
administration, Indiana restricted the number of voters in each
precinct to 250. J. Harris, Election Administration in the United
States 208 (Brookings Institution 1934). An Elec- tion Commission
report indicates that Indiana’s average number of registered
voters per polling place is currently 1,014. Election Assistance
Commission, Final Report of the 2004 Election Day Survey, ch. 13
(Sept. 2005) (Table 13) (hereinafter Final Report) (prepared by
Election Data Services, Inc.), online at http://
www.eac.gov/clearinghouse/clearinghouse/2004-election-day-survey
(all Internet materials as visited Apr. 16, 2008, and available in
Clerk of Court’s case file). In 1930, the major cities that
Harris surveyed had an average number of voters per precinct that
ranged from 247 to 617. Election Administration in the United
States, at 214. While States vary today, most have averages
exceeding 1,000, with at least eight States exceeding 2,000
registered voters per polling place. Final Report, ch. 13 (Table
13).
Footnote 11

															 One infamous example is the New York City
elections of 1868. William (Boss) Tweed set about solidifying and
consolidating his control of the city. One local tough who worked
for Boss Tweed, “Big Tim” Sullivan, insisted that his
“repeaters” (individuals paid to vote multiple times)
have whiskers:

															“ ‘When you’ve voted ’em with their
whiskers on, you take ’em to a barber and scrape off the chin
fringe. Then you vote ’em again with the side lilacs and a
mustache. Then to a barber again, off comes the sides and you vote
’em a third time with the mustache. If that ain’t
enough and the box can stand a few more ballots, clean off the
mustache and vote ’em plain face. That makes every one of
’em good for four votes.’ ” A. Callow, The
Tweed Ring 210 (1966) (quoting M. Werner, Tammany Hall 439
(1928)).
Footnote 12

															 Judge Barker cited record evidence containing
examples from California, Washington, Maryland, Wisconsin, Georgia,
Illinois, Pennsylvania, Missouri, Miami, and St. Louis. The
Brief of Amici Curiae Brennan Center for Justice
et al. in Support of Petitioners addresses each of these
examples of fraud. While the brief indicates that the record
evidence of in-person fraud was overstated because much of the
fraud was actually absentee ballot fraud or voter registration
fraud, there remain scattered instances of in-person voter fraud.
For example, after a hotly contested gubernatorial election in
2004, Washington conducted an investigation of voter fraud and
uncovered 19 “ghost voters.” Borders v.
King Cty., No. 05–2–00027–3 (Super. Ct.
Chelan Cty., Wash., June 6, 2005) (verbatim report of unpublished
oral decision), 4 Election L. J. 418, 423 (2005). After a
partial investigation of the ghost voting, one voter was confirmed
to have committed in-person voting fraud. Le & Nicolosi, Dead
Voted in Governor’s Race, Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Jan. 7,
2005, p. A1.
Footnote 13

															 See Pabey v. Pastrick, 816
N. E. 2d 1138, 1151 (Ind. 2006) (holding that a special
election was required because one candidate engaged in “a
deliberate series of actions . . . making it impossible to
determine the candidate who received the highest number of legal
votes cast in the election”). According to the uncontested
factual findings of the trial court, one of the candidates paid
supporters to stand near polling places and encourage
voters—especially those who were poor, infirm, or spoke
little English—to vote absentee. The supporters asked the
voters to contact them when they received their ballots; the
supporters then “assisted” the voter in filling out the
ballot.
Footnote 14

															 Theobald, Bogus Names Jam Indiana’s
Voter List, Indianapolis Star, Nov. 5, 2000, App. 145.
Footnote 15

															 For a survey of state practice, see Brief for
Texas et al. as Amici Curiae 10–14, and nn.
1–23.
Footnote 16

															 Ind. Code Ann.
§3–5–2–40.5 (West 2006) requires that the
document satisfy the following:

															“(1) The document shows the name of the individual to
whom the document was issued, and the name conforms to the name in
the individual’s voter registration record.

															“(2) The document shows a photograph of the
individual to whom the document was issued.

															“(3) The document includes an expiration date, and
the document:

															   “(A) is not expired; or

															   “(B) expired after the date of the
most recent general election.

															“(4) The document was issued by the United States or
the state of Indiana.”
Footnote 17

															 To obtain a photo identification card a
person must present at least one “primary” document,
which can be a birth certificate, certificate of naturalization, U.
S. veterans photo identification, U. S. military photo
identification, or a U. S. passport. Ind. Admin. Code, tit. 140,
§7–4–3 (2008). Indiana, like most States, charges
a fee for obtaining a copy of one’s birth certificate. This
fee varies by county and is currently between $3 and $12. See
Indiana State Department of Health Web page,
http://www.in.gov/isdh/bdcertifs/lhdfees/toc.htm. Some States
charge substantially more. Affidavit of Robert Andrew Ford, App.
12.
Footnote 18

															 As petitioners note, Brief for Petitioners in
No. 07–21, p. 17, n. 7, and the State’s
“Frequently Asked Questions” Web page states, it
appears that elderly persons who can attest that they were never
issued a birth certificate may present other forms of
identification as their primary document to the Indiana BMV,
including Medicaid/Medicare cards and Social Security benefits
statements. http://www.in.gov/faqs.htm; see also Ind. Admin. Code,
tit. 140, §7–4–3 (“The commissioner or the
commissioner’s designee may accept reasonable alternate
documents to satisfy the requirements of this rule”).
Footnote 19

															 Presumably most voters casting provisional
ballots will be able to obtain photo identifications before the
next election. It is, however, difficult to understand why the
State should require voters with a faith-based objection to being
photographed to cast provisional ballots subject to later
verification in every election when the BMV is able to issue these
citizens special licenses that enable them to drive without any
photo identification. See Ind. Code Ann.
9–24–11–5(c) (West Supp. 2007).
Footnote 20

															 Three comments on Justice Souter’s
speculation about the non-trivial burdens that SEA 483 may impose
on “tens of thousands” of Indiana citizens,
post, at 1 (dissenting opinion), are appropriate. First,
the fact that the District Judge estimated that when the statute
was passed in 2005, 43,000 citizens did not have photo
identification, see 458 F. Supp. 2d 775, 807 (SD Ind. 2006),
tells us nothing about the number of free photo identification
cards issued since then. Second, the fact that public
transportation is not available in some Indiana counties tells us
nothing about how often elderly and indigent citizens have an
opportunity to obtain a photo identification at the BMV, either
during a routine outing with family or friends or during a special
visit to the BMV arranged by a civic or political group such as the
League of Women Voters or a political party. Further, nothing in
the record establishes the distribution of voters who lack photo
identification. To the extent that the evidence sheds any light on
that issue, it suggests that such voters reside primarily in
metropolitan areas, which are served by public transportation in
Indiana (the majority of the plaintiffs reside in Indianapolis and
several of the organizational plaintiffs are Indianapolis
organizations). Third, the indigent, elderly, or disabled need not
“journey all the way to their county seat each time they wish
to exercise the franchise,” post, at 29, if they
obtain a free photo identification card from the BMV. While it is
true that obtaining a birth certificate carries with it a financial
cost, the record does not provide even a rough estimate of how many
indigent voters lack copies of their birth certificates.
Supposition based on extensive Internet research is not an adequate
substitute for admissible evidence subject to cross-examination in
constitutional adjudication.
Footnote 21

															 Brief for Petitioners in No. 07–25,
pp. 6–9. Fifty-two Republican House members voted for
the bill, 45 Democrats voted against, and 3 Democrats were excused
from voting. 3 Journal of the House of Representatives of Indiana,
Roll Call 259 (Mar. 21, 2005). In the Senate, 33 Republican
Senators voted in favor and 17 Democratic Senators voted against. 3
Journal of the Senate of Indiana, Roll Call 417 (Apr. 12,
2005).

													
