::SCDB_caseID:: 2008-080
::decision_cite:: 557 U.S. 404 (2009)
::decision_name::  Atlantic Sounding Co. v. Townsend
::decision_year:: 2009
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 


ALITO, J., DISSENTING
ATLANTIC SOUNDING CO. V. TOWNSEND
557 U. S. ____ (2009)
SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
NO. 08-214

															ATLANTIC SOUNDING CO., INC., et al.,
PETITIONERS v. EDGAR L. TOWNSEND

															on writ of certiorari to the united states court of
appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[June 25, 2009]

															   Justice Alito, with whom The
Chief Justice, Justice Scalia, and Justice Kennedy join,
dissenting.

															   In Miles v. Apex
Marine Corp., 498 U. S. 19 (1990), this
Court provided a workable framework for analyzing the relief
available on claims under general maritime law. Today, the Court
abruptly changes course. I would apply the analytical framework
adopted in Miles, and I therefore respectfully
dissent.

															I

															   In order to understand our
decision in Miles, it is necessary to appreciate the
nature of the authority that the Miles Court was
exercising. The Constitution, by extending the judicial power of
the United States to admiralty and maritime cases, impliedly
empowered this Court to continue the development of maritime law
“in the manner of a common law court.” Exxon
Shipping Co. v. Baker, 554 U. S. ___, ___ (2008)
(slip op., at 16); see also Romero v. International
Terminal Operating Co., 358 U. S. 354,
360–361 (1959). In Miles, this Court explained how
that authority should be exercised in an era in which statutory law
has become dominant.

															   Miles presented two
questions regarding the scope of relief permitted under general
maritime law, the first of which was whether damages for loss of
society may be recovered on a general maritime law wrongful-death
claim. In order to answer this question, the Court looked to the
Death on the High Seas Act, 46 U. S. C. §30301 et
seq., and the Jones Act 46 U. S. C. §30101 et
seq., both of which created new statutory wrongful-death
claims. Because the relief available on these statutory claims does
not include damages for loss of society, the Court concluded that
it should not permit such damages on a wrongful-death claim brought
under general maritime law. The Court explained:

															“We no longer live in an era when seamen and
their loved ones must look primarily to the courts as a source of
substantive legal protection from injury and death; Congress and
the States have legislated extensively in these areas. In this
era, an admiralty court should look primarily to these legislative
enactments for policy guidance.” 498 U. S., at 27
(emphasis added).

															   The Court took a similar approach
in answering the second question in Miles—whether
damages for loss of future income should be available in a general
maritime law survival action. The Court noted that “[t]here
are indeed strong policy arguments for allowing such
recovery” and that “admiralty courts have always shown
a special solicitude for the welfare of seamen and their
families.” Id., at 35–36. But because the
Jones Act survival provision “limits recovery to losses
suffered during the decedent’s lifetime,” the Court
held that a similar limitation should apply under general maritime
law. Id., at 36.

															   Miles thus instructs that, in
exercising our authority to develop general maritime law, we should
be guided primarily by the policy choices reflected in statutes
creating closely related claims. Endorsing what has been termed a
principle of uniformity, Miles teaches that if a form of
relief is not available on a statutory claim, we should be
reluctant to permit such relief on a similar claim brought under
general maritime law.

															II

															A

															   The type of maintenance and cure
claim that is most likely to include a request for punitive damages
is a claim that a seaman suffered personal injury as a result of
the willful refusal to provide maintenance and cure. Such a claim
may be brought under general maritime law. See Cortes v.
Baltimore Insular Line, Inc., 287 U. S. 367, 374
(1932) (recognizing that a seaman may sue under general maritime
law to recover for personal injury resulting from the denial of
maintenance and cure). And a similar claim may also be maintained
under the Jones Act. See, e.g., Guevara v.
Maritime Overseas Corp., 59 F. 3d 1496, 1499–1500
(CA5 1995) (en banc); G. Gilmore & C. Black, Law of Admiralty
§6–13, p. 311 (2d ed. 1975). To be sure, a seaman
asserting a Jones Act claim must show that his employer was
negligent, ibid., while a seaman proceeding under general
maritime law may recover compensatory damages without establishing
fault, id., at 310. But because the prevailing rule in
American courts does not permit punitive damages without a showing
of fault, see Exxon Shipping, supra, at 16,
n. 2, it appears that any personal injury maintenance and cure
claim in which punitive damages might be awarded could be brought
equally under either general maritime law or the Jones Act. The
Miles uniformity therefore weighs strongly in favor of a
rule that applies uniformly under general maritime law and the
Jones Act. I therefore turn to the question whether punitive
damages may be awarded under the Jones Act.

															B

															   Enacted in 1920, the Jones Act,
46 U. S. C. §§30104–30105(b), makes applicable
to seamen the substantive recovery provisions of the Federal
Employers Liability Act (FELA), 45 U. S. C. §51 et
seq., which became law in 1908. FELA, in turn, “recites
only that employers shall be liable in ‘damages’ for
the injury or death of one protected under the Act.”
Miles, supra, at 32 (citing 45 U. S. C.
§51).

															   Prior to the enactment of the
Jones Act, however, this Court had decided several cases that
explored the damages allowed under FELA. In Michigan Central R.
Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59 (1913), the
Court dealt primarily with the damages that may be recovered under
FELA’s wrongful-death provision, but the Court also discussed
the damages available in the case of injury. The Court noted that
if the worker in that case had not died from his injuries,
“he might have recovered such damages as would have
compensated him for his expense, loss of time, suffering and
diminished earning power.” Id., at 65. Two years
later, in St. Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co. v.
Craft, 237
U. S. 648 (1915), the Court reiterated that an injured worker
may recover only compensatory damages. Addressing the damages
available to a party bringing a survival claim, the Court explained
that the party may recover only those damages that had accrued to
the worker at the time of his death and was thus limited to
“such damages as will be reasonably compensatory for the loss
and suffering of the injured person while he lived.”
Id., at 658. See also ibid. (damages
“confined to the [the worker’s] personal loss and
suffering before he died”); Miller v. American
President Lines, Ltd., 989 F. 2d 1450, 1457 (CA6), cert.
denied, 510 U. S.
915 (1993) (“It has been the unanimous judgment of the
courts since before the enactment of the Jones Act that punitive
damages are not recoverable under [FELA]).”

															   When Congress incorporated FELA unaltered into
the Jones Act, Congress must have intended to incorporate
FELA’s limitation on damages as well. Miles, 498 U.
S., at 32. “We assume that Congress is aware of existing law
when it passes legislation.” Ibid. (citing
Cannon v. University of Chicago, 441 U. S. 677,
696–697 (1979)). It is therefore reasonable to assume that
only compensatory damages may be recovered under the Jones Act. See
Pacific S. S. Co. v. Peterson, 278 U. S. 130,
136–.139 (1928) (under the Jones Act, a seaman may
“recover compensatory damages for injuries caused by the
negligence”). And under Miles’
reasoning—at least in the absence of some exceptionally
strong countervailing considerations—the rule should be the
same when a seaman sues under general maritime law for personal
injury resulting from the denial of maintenance and cure.

															III

															   In reaching the opposite
conclusion, the Court reasons that: punitive damages were available
on maintenance and cure claims prior to the enactment of the Jones
Act and that the Jones Act was not intended to trim the relief
available on such general maritime law claims. This reasoning is
flawed.

															A

															   First, the Court proceeds as if
the question here were whether the Jones Act was meant to preclude
general maritime law claims and remedies. See ante, at
9–10 (Jones Act does not “overtur[n]” or
“eliminate pre-existing remedies available to seamen”);
ante, at 11 (Jones Act “preserves common-law causes
of action”); ante, at 15 (Miles does not
“preclud[e]” all claims and remedies beyond that made
available under the Jones Act). Miles explicitly rejected
that argument. See 498 U. S., at 29. But just because the Jones Act
was not meant to preclude general maritime claims or remedies, it
does not follow that the Jones Act was meant to stop the
development of general maritime law by the courts. The Jones Act is
significant because it created a statutory claim that is
indistinguishable for present purposes from a general maritime law
maintenance and cure claim based on personal injury and because
this statutory claim does not permit the recovery of punitive
damages. “Congress, in the exercise of its legislative
powers, is free to say ‘this much and no
more,’ ” and “an admiralty court should look
primarily to these legislative enactments for policy
guidance.” Miles, supra, at 24, 27. This
policy embodied in the Jones Act thus constitutes a powerful
argument in favor of the development of a similar rule under
general maritime law.

															B

															   That brings me to the
Court’s claim that the availability of punitive damages was
established before the Jones Act was passed. If punitive damages
were a widely recognized and regularly employed feature of
maintenance and cure claims during the pre-Jones Act era, I would
not rule out the possibility that this history might be sufficient
to outweigh the Miles uniformity principle. But a search
for cases in which punitive damages were awarded for the willful
denial of maintenance of cure—in an era when seamen were
often treated with shocking callousness—yields very little.
Although American courts have entertained maintenance and cure
suits since the early 19th century, the Court points to only two
reported cases—The City of Carlisle, 39 F. 807 (DC
Ore. 1889), and The Troop, 118 F. 769 (DC Wash.
1902)—that, as the Court carefully puts it, “appear to
contain at least some punitive element.” Ante, at
8.

															   The Court’s choice of words
is well advised, for it is not even clear that punitive damages
were recovered in these two obscure cases. In The City of
Carlisle, a 16-year-old apprentice suffered a fractured skull.
The captain refused to put ashore. Given little care, the
apprentice spent the next six or seven weeks in his bunk, wracked
with pain, and was then compelled to work 12 hours a day for the
remaining three months of the voyage. Upon landing, the captain
made no arrangements for care and did not pay for the
apprentice’s brain surgery. The apprentice received an award
of $1,000; that may include some “punitive element,”
but it seems likely that much if not all of that sum represented
compensation for the apprentice’s months of agony and the
lingering effects of his injury.

															   The Court’s second case, The
Troop, supra, involved similarly brutal treatment.
The seaman fell from a mast and fractured an arm and a leg while
his ship was six miles from its port of departure. Refusing to
return to port, the captain subjected the seaman to maltreatment
for the remainder of the 36-day voyage. As a result, he was
required to undergo painful surgery, and his injuries permanently
prevented him from returning to work as a mariner. He received an
undifferentiated award of $4,000, and while the court was sharply
critical of the captain’s conduct, it is far from clear that
the award did not consist entirely of compensatory damages for
medical expenses, lost future income, and pain and suffering.

															   In addition to the two cases cited by the
Court, respondent and an amicus claim that punitive
damages were awarded in a few additional cases. See Brief for
Respondent 13; Brief for Amicus Curiae American Assn. of
Justice as Amicus Curiae 10–11. Of these cases,
The Margharita, 140 F. 820 (CA5 1905), is perhaps the most
supportive. There, the court explained that its award of $1,500
would not only “compensate the seaman for his unnecessary and
unmerited suffering” but would “emphasize the
importance of humane and correct judgment under the circumstances
on the part of the master.” Id., at 827. While the
court’s reference to the message that the award embodied
suggests that the award was in part punitive, it is also possible
that the reference simply represented a restatement of one of the
traditional rationales for maintenance and cure, i.e.,
that it served the economic interests of shipowners and the general
interests of the country by making service as a seaman more
attractive. See Harden v. Gordon, 11 F. Cas.
480, 485 (No. 6,047) (CC Me. 1823).

															   The remaining cases contain harsh criticism of
the seamen’s treatment but do not identify any portion of the
award as punitive. See The Rolph, 293 F. 269 (ND Cal.
1923), aff’d, 299 F. 52 (CA9 1924) (undifferentiated
award of $10,000 for a seaman rendered blind in both eyes);
Tomlinson v. Hewett, 24 F. Cas. 29, 32 (No.
14,087) (DC Cal. 1872).

															   In sum, the search for maintenance and cure
cases in which punitive damages were awarded yields strikingly slim
results. The cases found are insufficient in number, clarity, and
prominence to justify departure from the Miles uniformity
principle.

															IV

															   There is one remaining question
in this case, namely, whether punitive damages are permitted when a
seaman asserts a general maritime law maintenance and cure claim
that is not based on personal injury. In Cortes, 287 U.
S., at 371, the Court explained that the duty to furnish
maintenance and cure “is one annexed to the employment. . . .
Contractual it is in the sense that it has its source in a relation
which is contractual in origin, but, given the relation, no
agreement is competent to abrogate the incident.” The duty is
thus essentially quasicontractual, and therefore, in those
instances in which the seaman does not suffer personal injury,
recovery should be governed by the law of quasi-contract. See
Restatement (Second) of Contracts §§4b, 12f (1979);
Restatement of Restitution §§113–114 (1936); 1 D.
Dobbs, Law of Remedies §4.2(3), pp 580 (2d ed. 1993). Thus, an
award of punitive damages is not appropriate. See also
Guevara, 59 F. 3d, at 1513.

															*  *  *

															   For these reasons, I would hold
that punitive damages are not available in a case such as this, and
I would therefore reverse the decision of the Court of Appeals.

													
