::SCDB_caseID:: 2011-073
::decision_cite:: 567 U.S. 516 (2012)
::decision_name::  Am. Tradition P'ship, Inc. v. Bullock
::decision_year:: 2012
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															AMERICAN TRADITION PARTNERSHIP, INC., fka
WESTERN TRADITION PARTNERSHIP, INC., et al. v. STEVE
BULLOCK, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MONTANA, et al.

															on petition for writ of certiorari to the
supreme court of montana

															No. 11–1179. Decided June 25,
2012

															

															Justice Breyer, with whom Justice Ginsburg,
Justice Sotomayor, and Justice Kagan join, dissenting.

															In Citizens United v. Federal Election
Commission, the Court concluded that “independent
expenditures, including those made by corporations, do not give
rise to corruption or the appearance of corruption.” 558
U. S. ___, ___ (2010) (slip op., at 42). I disagree with the
Court’s hold- ing for the reasons expressed in Justice
Stevens’ dissent in that case. As Justice Stevens explained,
“technically independent expenditures can be corrupting in
much the same way as direct contributions.” Id., at
___ (slip op., at 67–68). Indeed, Justice Stevens recounted a
“substantial body of evidence” suggesting that
“[m]any corporate independent expenditures . . .
had become essentially interchangeable with direct contributions in
their capacity to generate quid pro quo arrangements.”
Id., at ___ (slip op., at 64–65).

															Moreover, even if I were to accept Citizens
United, this Court’s legal conclusion should not bar the
Montana Supreme Court’s finding, made on the record before
it, that independent expenditures by corporations did in fact lead
to corruption or the appearance of corruption in Montana. Given the
history and political landscape in Montana, that court concluded
that the State had a compelling interest in limiting independent
expenditures by corporations. 2011 MT 328, ¶¶
36–37, 363 Mont. 220, 235–236, 271 P.3d 1, 36–37.
Thus, Montana’s experience, like considerable experience
elsewhere since the Court’s decision in Citizens
United, casts grave doubt on the Court’s supposition that
independent expenditures do not corrupt or appear to do so.

															Were the matter up to me, I would vote to grant
the petition for certiorari in order to reconsider Citizens
United or, at least, its application in this case. But given
the Court’s per curiam disposition, I do not see a
significant possibility of reconsideration. Consequently, I vote
instead to deny the petition.

													
