::SCDB_caseID:: 2011-068
::decision_cite:: 567 U.S. 50 (2012)
::decision_name::  Williams v. Illinois
::decision_year:: 2012
::opinion_author:: Breyer
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 10–8505

															_________________

															SANDY WILLIAMS, PETITIONER v. ILLINOIS

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
illinois

															[June 18, 2012]

															

															Justice Breyer, concurring.

															This case raises a question that I believe
neither the plurality nor the dissent answers adequately: How does
the Confrontation Clause apply to the panoply of crime laboratory
reports and underlying technical statements written by (or
otherwise made by) laboratory technicians? In this context, what,
if any, are the outer limits of the “testimonial
statements” rule set forth in Crawford v. Washington,
541 U.S.
36 (2004) ? Because I believe the question difficult,
important, and not squarely addressed either today or in our
earlier opinions, and because I believe additional briefing would
help us find a proper, generally applicable answer, I would set
this case for reargument. In the absence of doing so, I adhere to
the dissenting views set forth in Melendez-Diaz v. Massachusetts,
557 U.S.
305 (2009) , and Bullcoming v. New Mexico, 564 U. S. ___
(2011). I also join the plurality’s opinion.

															I

															A

															This case is another in our series involving
the inter-section of the Confrontation Clause and expert testimony.
Before trial, the prosecution’s expert, Sandra Lambatos,
received a copy of a report prepared by Cellmark Diagnostics
Laboratory. That report reflected the fact that Cellmark
technicians had received material from a vaginal swab taken from
the crime victim, had identified semen in that material, and had
derived a profile of the male DNA that the semen contained.
Lambatos then entered that profile into an Illinois State Police
Crime Laboratory computerized database, which contained, among many
other DNA profiles, a profile derived by the crime laboratory from
Williams’ blood (taken at an earlier time). The computer she
was using showed that the two profiles matched. Lambatos then
confirmed the match.

															Later, Lambatos testified at trial, where the
prosecutor asked her three relevant questions. First, the
prosecutor asked whether there was “a computer match
generated of the male DNA profile [derived by Cellmark] found in
[the] semen from the vaginal swabs . . . to [the] male
DNA profile [found in the database] that had been identified as
having originated from Sandy Williams”? App. 56. Since the
computer had shown such a match, Lambatos answered affirmatively.
Ibid.

															Second, the prosecutor asked whether Lambatos
had in-dependently “compare[d the DNA profile that Cellmark
had derived from] the semen that had been identified
. . . from the vaginal swabs of [the victim] to the male
DNA profile [found in the database] that had been [derived]
. . . from the blood of Sandy Williams.” Ibid.
Lambatos again answered affirmatively. Ibid.

															Third, the prosecutor asked whether, in
Lambatos’ ex-pert opinion, the DNA profile derived from the
semen identified in the vaginal swabs of the victim was “a
match to Sandy Williams.” Id., at 58. Lambatos again answered
affirmatively. Ibid.

															The Confrontation Clause problem lies in the
fact that Lambatos did not have personal knowledge that the male
DNA profile that Cellmark said was derived from the crime
victim’s vaginal swab sample was in fact correctly derived
from that sample. And no Cellmark expert testified that it was
true. Rather, she simply relied for her knowledge of the fact upon
Cellmark’s report. And the defendant Williams had no
opportunity to cross-examine the individual or individuals who
produced that report.

															In its first conclusion, the plurality explains
why it finds that admission of Lambatos’ testimony
nonetheless did not violate the Confrontation Clause. That Clause
concerns out-of-court statements admitted for their truth. Ante, at
15–16. Lambatos’ testimony did not introduce the
Cellmark report (which other circumstantial evidence supported) for
its truth. Ante, at 16–21. Rather, Lam-batos used the
Cellmark report only to indicate the underlying factual information
upon which she based her independent expert opinion. Ibid. Under
well-established principles of evidence, experts may rely on
otherwise inadmissible out-of-court statements as a basis for
forming an expert opinion if they are of a kind that experts in the
field normally rely upon. See Fed. Rule Evid. 703; Ill. Rule Evid.
703. Nor need the prosecution enter those out-of-court statements
into evidence for their truth. That, the Illinois courts held, is
just what took place here. Ante, at 9–10.

															The dissent would abandon this well-established
rule. It would not permit Lambatos to offer an expert opinion in
reliance on the Cellmark report unless the prosecution also
produces one or more experts who wrote or otherwise produced the
report. I am willing to accept the dissent’s characterization
of the present rule as artificial, see post, at 15–17
(opinion of Kagan, J.), but I am not certain that the dissent has
produced a workable alternative, see Bullcoming, supra, at ___
(Kennedy, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 7) (expressing similar
view).

															Once one abandons the traditional rule, there
would seem often to be no logical stopping place between requiring
the prosecution to call as a witness one of the labora-tory experts
who worked on the matter and requiring the prosecution to call all
of the laboratory experts who did so. Experts—especially
laboratory experts—regularly rely on the technical statements
and results of other experts to form their own opinions. The
reality of the matter is that the introduction of a laboratory
report involves layer upon layer of technical statements (express
or implied) made by one expert and relied upon by another. Hence my
general question: How does the Confrontation Clause apply to crime
laboratory reports and underlying technical statements made by
laboratory technicians?

															B

															The general question is not easy to answer.
The California case described at the outset of the dissenting
opinion helps to illustrate the difficulty. In that example,
Cellmark, the very laboratory involved in this case, tested a DNA
sample taken from the crime scene. A laboratory analyst, relying
upon a report the laboratory had prepared, initially stated (at a
pretrial hearing about admissibil- ity) that the laboratory had
found that the crime-scene DNA sample matched a sample of the
defendant’s DNA. But during the hearing and after reviewing
the labor-atory’s notes, the laboratory analyst realized that
the written report was mistaken. In fact, the testing showed only
that the crime-scene DNA matched a sample of the victim’s
DNA, not the defendant’s DNA. At some point during the
writing of the report, someone, perhaps the testifying analyst
herself, must have misread the proper original sample labeling.
Upon discovering the error, the analyst corrected her
testimony.

															The example is useful, not simply because as
adapted it might show the importance of cross-examination (an
importance no one doubts), but also because it can reveal the
nature of the more general question before us. When the laboratory
in the example received the DNA samples, it labeled them properly.
The laboratory’s final report mixed up the labels. Any one of
many different technicians could be responsible for an error like
that. And the testifying analyst might not have reviewed the
underlying notes and caught the error during direct examination (or
for that matter, during cross-examination).

															Adapting the example slightly, assume that the
admissibility of the initial laboratory report into trial had been
directly at issue. Who should the prosecution have had to call to
testify? Only the analyst who signed the report noting the match?
What if the analyst who made the match knew nothing about either
the laboratory’s underlying procedures or the specific tests
run in the particular case? Should the prosecution then have had to
call all potentially involved laboratory technicians to testify?
Six to twelve or more technicians could have been involved. (See
Appendix, infra, which lists typically relevant laboratory
procedures.) Some or all of the words spoken or written by each
technician out of court might well have constituted relevant
statements offered for their truth and reasonably relied on by a
supervisor or analyst writing the laboratory report. Indeed,
petitioner’s amici argue that the technicians at each stage
of the process should be subject to cross-examination. See Brief
for Innocence Network as Amicus Curiae 13–23 (hereinafter
Innocence Network Brief).

															And as is true of many hearsay statements that
fall within any of the 20 or more hearsay exceptions,
cross-examination could sometimes significantly help to elicit the
truth. See Fed. Rule Evid. 803 (listing 24 hearsay exceptions). The
Confrontation Clause as interpreted in Crawford recognizes, as a
limitation upon a pure “testimonial statement”
requirement, circumstances where the defendant had an adequate
“prior opportunity to cross-examine.” 541 U. S.,
at 59. To what extent might the “testimonial
statements” requirement embody one or more (or modified
versions) of these traditional hearsay exceptions as well?

															Lower courts and treatise writers have
recognized the problem. And they have come up with a variety of
solutions. The New Wigmore, for example, lists several nonexclusive
approaches to when testifying experts may rely on testing results
or reports by nontestifying experts (i.e., DNA technicians or
analysts), including: (1) “the dominant approach,”
which is simply to determine the need to testify by looking
“the quality of the nontestifying expert’s report, the
testifying expert’s involvement in the process, and the
consequent ability of the testifying expert to use independent
judgment and interpretive skill”; (2) permitting “a
substitute expert to testify about forensic science results only
when the first expert is unavailable” (irrespective of the
lack of opportunity to cross-examine the first expert, cf.
Crawford, supra, at 59); (3) permitting “a substitute
expert” to testify if “the original test was documented
in a thorough way that permits the substitute expert to evaluate,
assess, and interpret it”; (4) permitting a DNA analyst to
introduce DNA test results at trial without having
“personally perform[ed] every specific aspect of each DNA
test in question, provided the analyst was present during the
critical stages of the test, is familiar with the process and the
laboratory protocol involved, reviews the results in proximity to
the test, and either initials or signs the final report outlining
the results”; (5) permitting the introduction of a crime
laboratory DNA report without the testimony of a technician where
the “testing in its pre-liminary stages” only
“requires the technician simply to perform largely mechanical
or ministerial tasks . . . absent some reason to believe
there was error or falsification”; and (6) permitting
introduction of the report without requiring the technicians to
testify where there is a showing of “genuine
unavailability.” See D. Kaye, D. Bernstein, & J. Mnookin,
The New Wigmore: Expert Evidence, §§4.10.2, 4.10.3, pp.
202, 204, 206 (2d ed. 2010) (internal quotation marks and footnote
omitted); id., §4.11.6, at 24 (Supp. 2012).

															Some of these approaches seem more readily
compatible with Crawford than others. Some seem more easily
considered by a rules committee (or by state courts) than by this
Court. Nonetheless, all assume some kind of Crawford
boundary—some kind of limitation upon the scope of its
application—though they reflect different views as to just
how and when that might be done.

															Answering the underlying general question just
discussed, and doing so soon, is important. Trial judges in both
federal and state courts apply and interpret hearsay rules as part
of their daily trial work. The trial of criminal cases makes up a
large portion of that work. And laboratory reports frequently
constitute a portion of the evidence in ordinary criminal trials.
Obviously, judges, prosecutors, and defense lawyers have to know,
in as definitive a form as possible, what the Constitution requires
so that they can try their cases accordingly.

															The several different opinions filed today
embody sev-eral serious, but different, approaches to the difficult
gen-eral question. Yet none fully deals with the underlying
question as to how, after Crawford, Confrontation Clause
“testimonial statement” requirements apply to crime
lab-oratory reports. Nor can I find a general answer in
Melendez-Diaz or Bullcoming. While, as a matter of pure logic, one
might use those cases to answer a narrowed version of the question
presented here, see post, at 7–8 (Kagan, J., dissenting),
those cases do not fully con- sider the broader evidentiary problem
presented. I consequently find the dissent’s response,
“Been there, done that,” unsatisfactory. See post, at
21.

															Under these circumstances, I would have this
case reargued. I would request the parties and amici to focus
specifically upon the broader “limits” question. And I
would permit them to discuss, not only the possible implications of
our earlier post-Crawford opinions, but also any necessary
modifications of statements made in the opinions of those earlier
cases.

															II

															In the absence of reargument, I adhere to the
dissenting view set forth in Melendez-Diaz and Bullcoming, under
which the Cellmark report would not be considered
“testimonial” and barred by the Confrontation Clause.
See also ante, at 28–33 (setting forth similar conclusion).
That view understands the Confrontation Clause as interpreted in
Crawford to bar the admission of “[t]estimonial”
statements made out of court unless the declarant is unavail-able
and the defendant had a prior opportunity to cross-examine. 541
U. S., at 59 (emphasis added). It also understands the word
“testimonial” as having outer limits and Crawford as
describing a constitutional heartland. And that view would leave
the States with constitutional leeway to maintain traditional
expert testimony rules as well as hearsay exceptions where there
are strong reasons for doing so and Crawford’s basic
rationale does not apply.

															In particular, the States could create an
exception that presumptively would allow introduction of DNA
reports from accredited crime laboratories. The defendant would
remain free to call laboratory technicians as witnesses. Were there
significant reason to question a laboratory’s technical
competence or its neutrality, the presumptive exception would
disappear, thereby requiring the prosecution to produce any
relevant technical witnesses. Such an exception would lie outside
Crawford’s constitutional limits.

															Consider the report before us. Cellmark’s
DNA report embodies technical or professional data, observations,
and judgments; the employees who contributed to the report’s
findings were professional analysts working on technical matters at
a certified laboratory; and the employees operated behind a veil of
ignorance that likely prevented them from knowing the identity of
the defendant in this case. Statements of this kind fall within a
hearsay exception that has constituted an important part of the law
of evidence for decades. See Fed. Rule Evid. 803(6) (“Records
of Regularly Conducted Activity”); 2 J. Wigmore, Evidence
§§1517–1533, pp. 1878–1899 (1904)
(“Regular Entries”). And for somewhat similar reasons,
I believe that such statements also presumptively fall outside the
category of “testimonial” statements that the
Confrontation Clause makes inadmissible.

															As the plurality points out, ante, at
28–33, the introduction of statements of this kind does not
risk creating the “principal evil at which the Confrontation
Clause was directed.” Crawford, 541 U. S., at 50. That
evil consists of the pre-Constitution practice of using “ex
parte examinations as evidence against the accused.” Ibid.
Sir Walter Raleigh’s case illustrates the point. State
authorities questioned Lord Cobham, the key witness against
Raleigh, outside his presence. They then used those testimonial
statements in court against Raleigh. And when Raleigh asked to face
and to challenge his accuser, he was denied that opportunity. See
id., at 44.

															The Confrontation Clause prohibits the use of
this kind of evidence because allowing it would deprive a defendant
of the ability to cross-examine the witness. Id., at 61–62;
Mattox v. United States, 156 U.S.
237 –243 (1895). That deprivation would prevent a
defendant from confronting the witness. And it would thereby
prevent a defendant from probing the witness’ perception,
memory, narration, and sincerity. See, e.g., 2 K. Broun
et al., McCormick on Evidence §245, p. 125 (6th ed.
2006); E. Morgan, Some Problems of Proof Under the Anglo-American
System of Litigation 119–127 (1956); 30 C. Wright & K.
Graham, Federal Practice and Procedure §6324, pp. 44–49
(1997); see also M. Hale, History of the Common Law of England 258
(1713) (explaining virtues of confronting witness); 3 W.
Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws of England 373 (1768) (same).
But the need for cross-examination is considerably diminished when
the out-of-court statement was made by an accredited laboratory
employee operating at a remove from the investigation in the
ordinary course of professional work.

															For one thing, as the hearsay exception itself
reflects, alternative features of such situations help to guarantee
its accuracy. An accredited laboratory must satisfy
well-established professional guidelines that seek to ensure the
scientific reliability of the laboratory’s results. App.
59–60, 74, 86–87; see Brief for National District
Attorneys Assn. et al. as Amici Curiae 25, n. 5
(hereinafter NDAA Brief) (noting that the standards date back 30
years); Giannelli, Regulating Crime Laboratories: The Impact of DNA
Evidence, 15 J. L. & Pol’y 59, 72–76 (2007).
For example, forensic DNA testing laboratories permitted to access
the FBI’s Combined DNA Index System must adhere to standards
governing, among other things, the organization and management of
the laboratory; education, training, and experience requirements
for laboratory personnel; the laboratory’s physical
facilities and security measures; control of physical evidence;
validation of testing methodologies; procedures for analyzing
samples, including the reagents and controls that are used in the
testing process; equipment calibration and maintenance;
documentation of the process used to test each sample handled by
the laboratory; technical and administrative review of every case
file; proficiency testing of laboratory; personnel; corrective
action that addresses any discrepancies in proficiency tests and
casework analysis; internal and external audits of the laboratory;
environmental health and safety; and outsourcing of testing to
vendor laboratories. See Brief for New York County District
Attorney’s Office et al. as Amici Curiae 4, n. 4
(hereinafter NY County DAO Brief); see also App. to NY County DAO
Brief A22–A49.

															These standards are not foolproof. Nor are they
always properly applied. It is not difficult to find instances in
which laboratory procedures have been abused. See, e.g., Innocence
Network Brief 6–11; App. to Brief for Public Defender Service
for the District of Columbia et al. as Amici Curiae
1a–12a; cf. Giannelli, The Abuse of Scientific Evidence in
Criminal Cases: The Need for Independent Crime Laboratories, 4 Va.
J. Soc. Pol’y & L. 439 (1997). Moreover, DNA testing
itself has exonerated some defendants who previously had been
convicted in part upon the basis of testimony by laboratory
experts. See Melendez-Diaz v. Massachusetts, 557 U. S., at 319
(citing Garrett & Neufeld, Invalid Forensic Science Testimony
and Wrongful Convictions, 95 Va. L. Rev. 1 (2009)).

															But if accreditation did not prevent admission
of faulty evidence in some of those cases, neither did
cross-examination. In the wrongful-conviction cases to which this
Court has previously referred, the forensic experts all testified
in court and were available for cross-examination. Sklansky,
Hearsay’s Last Hurrah, 2009 S. Ct. Rev. 1, 72–73
(cited study “did not identify any cases in which hearsay
from forensic analysts contributed to the conviction of innocent
defendants”); see Garrett & Neufeld, supra, at
10–12, 84, 89 (noting that cross-examination was rarely
effective); see also Murphy, The New Forensics: Criminal Justice,
False Certainty, and the Second Generation of Scientific Evidence,
95 Cal. L. Rev. 721, 785–786 (2007) (suggesting need for
greater reliance upon accreditation and oversight of accredited
laboratories); Sklansky, supra, at 74 (same). Similarly, the role
of cross-examination is ambiguous in the laboratory example that
the dissent describes. See post, at 1–2. (Apparently, the
report’s error came to light and was corrected after
cross-examination had concluded, see Thompson, Taroni, &
Aitken, Author’s Response, 49 J. Forensic Sci. 1202 (2003),
and in any event all parties had received the correctly labeled
underlying laboratory data, see Clarke, Commentary, id., at
1201).

															For another thing, the fact that the laboratory
testing takes place behind a veil of ignorance makes it unlikely
that a particular researcher has a defendant-related motive to
behave dishonestly, say, to misrepresent a step in an analysis or
otherwise to misreport testing results. Cf. Michigan v. Bryant, 562
U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 14) (discussing the
“prospect of fabrication” as a factor in whether the
Confrontation Clause requires statements “to be subject to
the crucible of cross-examination”). The laboratory here, for
example, did not know whether its test results might help to
incriminate a particular defendant. Ante, at 32–33; cf.
Melendez-Diaz, supra, at 310–311; Bullcoming, 564 U. S.,
at ___ (slip op., at 14).

															Further, the statements at issue, like those of
many laboratory analysts, do not easily fit within the linguistic
scope of the term “testimonial statement” as we have
used that term in our earlier cases. As the plurality notes, in
every post-Crawford case in which the Court has found a
Confrontation Clause violation, the statement at issue had the
primary purpose of accusing a targeted individual. Ante, at
29–31; see, e.g., Davis v. Washington, 547 U.S.
813, 822 (2006) (“primary purpose . . . is to
establish or prove past events potentially relevant to later
criminal prosecution”); Bryant, supra, at ___–___ (slip
op., at 11–12) (“primary purpose of creating an
out-of-court substitute for trial testimony”). The declarant
was essentially an adverse witness making an accusatory,
testimonial statement—implicating the core concerns of the
Lord Cobham-type affidavits. But here the DNA report sought, not to
accuse petitioner, but instead to generate objectively a profile of
a then-unknown suspect’s DNA from the semen he left in
committing the crime. See ante, at 31–33.

															Finally, to bar admission of the out-of-court
records at issue here could undermine, not fortify, the accuracy of
factfinding at a criminal trial. Such a precedent could bar the
admission of other reliable case-specific technical information
such as, say, autopsy reports. Autopsies, like the DNA report in
this case, are often conducted when it is not yet clear whether
there is a particular suspect or whether the facts found in the
autopsy will ultimately prove relevant in a criminal trial.
Autopsies are typically conducted soon after death. And when, say,
a victim’s body has decomposed, repetition of the autopsy may
not be possible. What is to happen if the medical examiner dies
before trial? E.g., State v. Lackey, 280 Kan. 190, 195–196,
120 P.3d 332, 341 (2005); see also People v. Geier, 41 Cal. 4th
555, 601–602, 161 P.3d 104, 136–137 (2007). Is the
Confrontation Clause
“ ‘effectively’ ” to function
“ ‘as a statute of limitations for
murder’ ”? Melendez-Diaz, supra, at 335 (Kennedy,
J., dissenting) (quoting Comment, Toward a Definition of
“Testimonial”: How Autopsy Reports Do Not Embody the
Qualities of a Testimonial Statement, 96 Cal. L. Rev. 1093,
1115 (2008)).

															In general, such a holding could also increase
the risk of convicting the innocent. The New York County District
Attorney’s Office and the New York City Office of the Chief
Medical Examiner tell us that the additional cost and complexity
involved in requiring live testimony from perhaps dozens of
ordinary laboratory technicians who participate in the preparation
of a DNA profile may well force a laboratory “to reduce the
amount of DNA testing it conducts, and force prosecutors to forgo
forensic DNA analysis in cases where it might be highly probative.
In the absence of DNA testing, defendants might well be prosecuted
solely on the basis of eyewitness testimony, the reliability of
which is often questioned.” NY County DAO Brief 10 (citing
United States v. Wade, 388 U.S.
218, 229 (1967) ); see also NDAA Brief 26 (such a holding
“will also impact the innocent who may wait to be cleared
from suspicion or exonerated from mistaken conviction”). I
find this plausible. But cf. Innocence Network Brief 3. An
interpretation of the Clause that risks greater prosecution
reliance upon less reliable evidence cannot be sound. Cf. Maryland
v. Craig, 497 U.S.
836, 845 (1990) (“The central concern of the
Confrontation Clause is to ensure the reli-ability of the evidence
against a criminal defendant”).

															Consequently, I would consider reports such as
the DNA report before us presumptively to lie outside the perimeter
of the Clause as established by the Court’s precedents. Such
a holding leaves the defendant free to call the laboratory employee
as a witness if the employee is available. Moreover, should the
defendant provide good reason to doubt the laboratory’s
competence or the validity of its accreditation, then the
alternative safeguard of reliability would no longer exist and the
Constitution would entitle defendant to Confrontation Clause
protection. Similarly, should the defendant demonstrate the
existence of a motive to falsify, then the alternative safeguard of
honesty would no longer exist and the Constitution would entitle
the defendant to Confrontation Clause protection. Cf. 2 Wigmore,
Evidence §1527, at 1892 (in respect to the business records
exception, “there must have been no motive to
misrepresent”). Thus, the defendant would remain free to show
the absence or inadequacy of the alternative reliability/honesty
safeguards, thereby rebutting the pre-sumption and making the
Confrontation Clause applicable. No one has suggested any such
problem in respect to the Cellmark Report at issue here.

															Because the plurality’s opinion is
basically consistent with the views set forth here, I join that
opinion in full.

															

															APPENDIX

															This appendix outlines the way that a typical
modern fo-rensic laboratory conducts DNA analysis. See NY County
DAO Brief 7–8; NDAA Brief 22–23; Innocence Network
Brief 13–23; see also Dept. of Justice, Office of the
Inspector General, The FBI DNA Laboratory: A Review of Protocol and
Practice Vulnerabilities 6–14 (May 2004), online at
http://www.justice.gov/oig/special/0405/final.pdf (as visited June
14, 2012, and available in Clerk of Court’s case file). The
DNA analysis takes place in three parts, through three different
sets of laboratory experts: (1) a DNA pro-file is derived from the
suspect’s DNA sample, (2) a DNA profile is derived from the
crime-scene DNA sample, and (3) an analyst compares the two
profiles and makes a conclusion.

															As many as six technicians may be involved in
deriving the profile from the suspect’s sample; as many as
six more technicians may be involved in deriving the profile from
the crime-scene sample; and an additional expert may then be
required for the comparative analysis, for a total of about a dozen
different laboratory experts. Each expert may make technical
statements (express or implied) during the DNA analysis process
that are in turn relied upon by other experts. The amici dispute
how many of these experts the Confrontation Clause requires to be
subject to cross-examination. Compare Innocence Network Brief
13–23 with NY County DAO Brief 7–8 and NDAA Brief
22–23. In charting the three-step process, the appendix first
summarizes the laboratory procedures used to derive a DNA profile
and then illustrates potential statements that technicians may make
to explain their analysis.

															

															[Graphic omitted; see printed opinion.]

															[Graphic omitted; see printed opinion.]

															[Graphic omitted; see printed opinion.]

													
