::SCDB_caseID:: 2011-070
::decision_cite:: 567 U.S. 298 (2012)
::decision_name::  Knox v. Service Employees Int'l Union Local 1000
::decision_year:: 2012
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 10–1121

															_________________

															DIANNE KNOX, et al., PETITIONERS
v. SERVICE EM- PLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION, LOCAL 1000

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 21, 2012]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Ginsburg
joins, concurring in the judgment.

															When a public-sector union imposes a special
assessment intended to fund solely political lobbying efforts, the
First Amendment requires that the union provide nonmembers an
opportunity to opt out of the contribution of funds. I therefore
concur in the Court’s judgment.

															I concur only in the judgment, however, because
I cannot agree with the majority’s decision to address
unnecessarily significant constitutional issues well outside the
scope of the questions presented and briefing. By doing so, the
majority breaks our own rules and, more importantly, disregards
principles of judicial restraint that define the Court’s
proper role in our system of separated powers.

															I

															The Political Fight-Back Fund was to be used
by Service Employees International Union, Local 1000 (SEIU),
“specifically in the political arenas of California” to
defeat perceived antiunion initiatives and to elect a sympathetic
Governor and legislature. App. 25; see also id., at 31. As
the majority explains, such political efforts are not
“germane” to the union’s function as a bargaining
representative, and accordingly are not chargeable to objecting
nonmembers. See Lehnert v. Ferris Faculty Assn.,
500 U.S.
507, 519 (1991); see also Locke v. Karass,
555 U.S.
207, 211 (2009) (“[N]onchargeable union activities
[include] political, public relations, or lobbying
activities”). While the union is free to pursue its
ideological goals in the political arena, it may not subsidize its
efforts with objecting nonmembers’ funds, lest the objector
be used as “ ‘an instrument for fostering public
adherence to an ideological point of view he finds
unacceptable.’ ” Lehnert, 500 U. S.,
at 522 (plurality opinion) (quoting Wooley v.
Maynard, 430 U.S.
705, 715 (1977)).

															Accordingly, when a union levies a special
assessment or dues increase to fund political activities, the union
may not collect funds from nonmembers who earlier had objected to
the payment of nonchargeable expenses, and may not collect funds
from other nonmembers without providing a new Hudson notice
and opportunity to opt out. See Teachers v. Hudson,
475 U.S.
292 (1986). Because SEIU failed to follow these procedures, it
did not satisfy its constitutional obligations. That holding should
end this case; it is all petitioners asked this Court to
decide.[1]

															II

															The majority agrees that SEIU’s actions
were at odds with the First Amendment. Yet it proceeds, quite
unnecessarily, to reach significant constitutional issues not
contained in the questions presented, briefed, or argued.
Petitioners did not question the validity of our precedents, which
consistently have recognized that an opt-out system of fee
collection comports with the Constitution. See
Davenport v. Washington Ed. Assn., 551 U.S.
177, 181, 185 (2007); Hudson, 475 U. S., at 306, n.
16; Abood v. De- troit Bd. of Ed., 431 U.S.
209, 238 (1977); see also ante, at 12–13. They did
not argue that the Constitution requires an opt-in system of fee
collection in the context of special assessments or dues increases
or, indeed, in any context. Not surprisingly, respondents did not
address such a prospect.

															Under this Court’s Rule 14.1(a),
“[o]nly the questions set out in the petition, or fairly
included therein, will be considered by the Court.”
“[W]e disregard [that rule] ‘only in the most
exceptional cases,’ where reasons of urgency or economy
suggest the need to address the unpresented question in the case
under consideration.” Yee v. Escondido,
503 U.S.
519, 535 (1992) (quoting Stone v. Powell,
428 U.S.
465, 481, n. 15 (1976)). The majority does not claim any
such exceptional circumstance here. Yet it reaches out to hold that
“when a public-sector union imposes a special assessment or
dues increase, the union must provide a fresh Hudson notice
and may not exact any funds from nonmembers without their
affirmative consent.” Ante, at 22 (emphasis
added); see also ante, at 17 (“[T]he union should have
sent out a new notice allowing nonmembers to opt in to the special
fee rather than requiring them to opt out”). The majority
thus decides, for the very first time, that the First Amendment
does require an opt-in system in some circumstances: the
levying of a special assessment or dues increase. The majority
announces its novel rule without any analysis of potential
countervailing arguments and without any reflection on the reliance
interests our old rules have engendered.

															The majority’s choice to reach an issue
not presented by the parties, briefed, or argued, disregards our
rules. See Yee, 503 U. S., at 535. And it ignores a
fundamental premise of our adversarial system:
“ ‘that appellate courts do not sit as
self-directed boards of legal inquiry and research, but essentially
as arbiters of legal questions presented and argued by the parties
before them.’ ” NASA v. Nelson, 562
U. S. ___, ___, n. 10 (2011) (opinion for the Court by
Alito, J.) (slip op., at 11, n. 10) (quoting
Carducci v. Regan, 714 F.2d 171, 177 (CADC
1983) (opinion for the court by Scalia, J.)); see also
Jefferson v. Upton, 560 U. S. ___, ___ (Scalia,
J., joined by Thomas, J., dissenting) (slip op., at 8) (The
majority’s “refusal to abide by standard rules of
appellate practice is unfair to the . . . Circuit,”
which did not pass on this question, “and especially to the
respondent here, who suffers a loss in this Court without
ever having an opportunity to address the merits of the
. . . question the Court decides”). The imperative
of judicial restraint is at its zenith here, with respect to an
issue of such constitutional magnitude, for “[i]f there is
one doctrine more deeply rooted than any other in the process of
constitutional adjudication, it is that we ought not to pass on
questions of constitutionality . . . unless such
adjudication is unavoidable.” Clinton v. Jones,
520 U.S.
681, 690, n. 11 (1997) (internal quotation marks
omitted).[2]

															To make matters worse, the majority’s
answer to its unasked constitutional question is not even clear.
After today, must a union undertaking a special assessment or dues
increase obtain affirmative consent to collect “any
funds” or solely to collect funds for
nonchargeable ex- penses? May a nonmember opt not to
contribute to a special assessment, even if the assessment is
levied to fund uncontestably chargeable activities? Does the
majority’s new rule allow for any distinction between
nonmembers who had earlier objected to the payment of nonchargeable
expenses and those who had not? What procedures govern this new
world of fee collection?

															Moreover, while the majority’s novel rule
is, on its face, limited to special assessments and dues increases,
the majority strongly hints that this line may not long endure. The
majority pronounces the Court’s explicit holding in
Machinists v. Street, 367 U.S.
740, 774 (1961)—that “dissent is not to be
presumed[,] it must affirmatively be made known to the union by the
dissenting employee”—nothing but an “offhand
remark,” made by Justices who did not “pause to
consider the broader constitutional implications of an affirmative
opt-out requirement,” ante, at 12. The reader is told
that our precedents’ “acceptance of the opt-out
approach appears to have come about more as a historical accident
than through the careful application of First Amendment
principles.” Ibid. And that “[b]y authorizing a
union to collect fees from nonmembers and permitting the use of an
opt-out system for the collection of fees levied to cover
nonchargeable expenses, our prior decisions approach, if they do
not cross, the limit of what the First Amendment can
tolerate.” Ante, at 14 (emphasis added); see also
ante, at 21–22 (“[B]y allowing unions to collect
any fees from nonmembers and by permitting unions to use opt-out
rather than opt-in schemes when annual dues are billed, our cases
have substantially impinged upon the First Amendment rights of
nonmembers”); ante, at 11–12 (“Once it is
recognized . . . that a nonmember cannot be forced to
fund a union’s political or ideological activities, what is
the justification for putting the burden on the nonmember to opt
out of making such a payment? Shouldn’t the default rule
comport with the probable preferences of most
nonmembers?”).

															To cast serious doubt on longstanding precedent
is a step we historically take only with the greatest caution and
reticence. To do so, as the majority does, on our own invitation
and without adversarial presentation is both unfair and unwise. It
deprives the parties and potential amici of the opportunity
to brief and argue the question. It deprives us of the benefit of
argument that the parties, with concrete interests in the question,
are surely better positioned than we to set forth. See NASA,
562 U. S., at ___, n. 10 (opinion for the Court by Alito,
J.) (slip op., at 11, n. 10) (“It is undesirable for us
to decide a matter of this importance in a case in which we do not
have the benefit of briefing by the parties and in which potential
amici had little notice that the matter might be
decided”). Not content with our task, prescribed by Article
III, of answering constitutional questions, the majority today
decides to ask them as well.

Notes
1
 See Pet. for Cert. (i)
(questions presented); Brief for Petitioners (i) (same);
id., at 39 (“The Court should hold that
. . . when a union imposes a forced-fee increase
primarily or solely for political purposes between notices, it may
not collect the increase from nonmembers who have already objected,
and it must not collect the increase from other nonmembers until it
has ascertained their wishes by providing them with a new notice
about the increase’s purpose and an opportunity to opt
out”); see also App. 18–19 (complaint).
2
 The majority contends
that its holding “does not venture beyondthe scope of the
questions on which we granted review,” pointing to the second
question presented. Ante, at 22, n. 9. The majority is
mistaken. That question concerns the chargeability of political and
lobbying activities under Lehnert v. Ferris Faculty
Assn., 500 U.S.
507, 522 (1991), not the procedures by which a union may
collect fees. SeePet. for Cert. (i); id., at
20–27 (describing scope of second question presented);
id., at 23 (“There is a serious split, and confusion,
among the circuits on the chargeability of union political and
lobbying activities”). Indeed, it is only petitioners’
first question presented that deals with fee-collection procedures.
And in that question, petitioners ask this Court to hold that SEIU
may not collect its special assessment without providing a
Hudson notice that offers “an opportunity to object
to” the deduction of fees for the assessment. Id.,
at (i) (emphasis added). The phrase “opt in” appears
not once in petitioners’ briefing. The majority protests that
it cannot but hold that an opt-in regime is required, seeing as the
opt-out regime the petitioners advocate is, in the majority’s
view, unconstitutional. But if the Court was dissatisfied with the
scope of the questions presented here it should not have granted
certiorari in this case. Or having granted it, the Court should
have asked for supplemental briefing on the question whether an
opt-in regime is constitutionally required. What it should not have
done—cannot do under our rules—is decide that
question without having provided the parties and potential
amici an opportunity to weigh in with their own considered
views.


