::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-013
::decision_cite:: 568 U.S. 186 (2013)
::decision_name::  Bailey v. United States
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–770

															_________________

															CHUNON L. BAILEY, aka POLO, PETITIONER
v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[February 19, 2013]

															

															Justice Scalia, with whom Justice Ginsburg and
Justice Kagan join, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion. I write
separately to em-phasize why the Court of Appeals’
interest-balancing approach to this case—endorsed by the
dissent—is incompatible with the categorical rule set forth
in Michigan v. Summers, 452 U.S.
692 (1981).

															Summers identified several
law-enforcement interests supporting the detention of occupants
incident to the execution of a warrant to search for contraband,
along with several reasons why such detentions are typically less
intrusive than an arrest. See id., at 701–704.
Weighing those factors, the Court determined that “it is
constitutionally reasonable to require [a] citizen to remain while
officers of the law execute a valid warrant to search his
home.” Id., at 705.

															The existence and scope of the Summers
exception were predicated on that balancing of the interests and
burdens. But—crucially—whether Summers
authorizes a seizure in an individual case does not depend
on any balancing, because the Summers exception, within its
scope, is “categorical.” Muehler v. Mena,
544 U.S.
93, 98 (2005). That Summers establishes a categorical,
bright-line rule is simply not open to debate—Summers
itself insisted on it: “The rule we adopt today does not
depend upon such an ad hoc determination, because the officer
is not required to evaluate either the quantum of proof justifying
detention or the extent of the intrusion to be imposed by the
seizure.” 452 U. S., at 705, n. 19. Where
Summers applies, a seizure is ipso facto
“constitutionally reasonable.” Id., at 705.

															The question in this case is whether
Summers applies at all. It applies only to seizures of
“occupants”—that is, persons within “the
immediate vicinity of the premises to be searched.”
Ante, at 11. Bailey was seized a mile away. Ergo,
Summers cannot sanction Bailey’s detention. It really
is that simple.

															The Court of Appeals’ mistake, echoed by
the dissent, was to replace that straightforward, binary inquiry
with open-ended balancing. Weighing the equities—Bailey
“posed a risk of harm to the officers,” his detention
“was not unreasonably prolonged,” and so
forth—the Court of Appeals proclaimed the officers’
conduct, “in the circumstances presented, reasonable and
prudent.” 652 F.3d 197, 206 (CA2 2011) (internal quotation
marks and brackets omitted); see also post, at 3–4
(opinion of Breyer, J.). That may be so, but it is irrelevant to
whether Summers authorized the officers to seize Bailey
without probable cause. To resolve that issue, a court need ask
only one question: Was the person seized within “the
immediate vicinity of the premises to be searched”?
Ante, at 11.

															The Court of Appeals read Summers’
spatial constraint somewhat more promiscuously: In its view, it
sufficed that police observed Bailey “in the process of
leaving the premises” and detained him “as soon as
practicable.” 652 F. 3d, at 206 (emphasis deleted); see
also post, at 6–7. That has pragmatic appeal; police,
the argument runs, should not be precluded from seizing the
departing occupant at a distance from the premises if that would be
safer than stopping him on the front steps. But it rests on the
fallacy that each search warrant entitles the Government to
a concomitant Summers detention. Conducting a Summers
seizure incident to the execution of a warrant “is not the
Government’s right; it is an exception—justified by
necessity—to a rule that would otherwise render the [seizure]
unlawful.” Thornton v. United States, 541 U.S.
615, 627 (2004) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment).

															It bears repeating that the “general
rule” is “that Fourth Amendment seizures are
‘reasonable’ only if based on probable cause.”
Dunaway v. New York, 442 U.S.
200, 213 (1979). Summers embodies a categorical judgment
that in one narrow circumstance—the presence of
occupants during the execution of a search warrant—seizures
are reasonable despite the absence of probable cause. Sum-
mers itself foresaw that without clear limits its excep- tion
could swallow the general rule: If a “multifactor balancing
test of ‘reasonable police conduct under the
cir-cumstances’ ” were extended “to cover
all seizures that do not amount to technical arrests,” it
recognized, the “ ‘protections intended by the
Framers could all too easily dis-appear in the consideration and
balancing of the multi-farious circumstances presented by different
cases.’ ” 452 U. S., at 705,
n. 19 (quoting Dunaway, supra, at 213 (some
internal quotation marks omitted)). The dissent would harvest from
Summers what it likes (permission to seize without probable
cause) and leave behind what it finds uncongenial (limitation of
that permission to a narrow, categorical exception, not an
open-ended “reasonableness” inquiry).[1]* Summers anticipated that gambit
and explicitly disavowed the dissent’s balancing test. See
452 U. S., at 705, n. 19 (“[T]he rule we adopt
today does not depend upon such an ad hoc
determination”).

															Regrettably, this Court’s opinion in
Summers facilitated the Court of Appeals’ error here
by setting forth a smorgasbord of law-enforcement interests
assertedly justifying its holding, including “preventing
flight in the event that incriminating evidence is found” and
obtaining residents’ assistance in “open[ing] locked
doors or locked containers.” Id., at 701–703. We
should not have been so expansive. The Summers exception is
appropriately predicated only on law enforcement’s
interest in carrying out the search unimpeded by violence or other
disruptions. “The common denominator” of the few Fourth
Amendment doctrines permitting seizures based on less than probable
cause “is the presence of some governmental interest
independent of the ordinary interest in investigating crime and
apprehending suspects.” Id., at 707 (Stewart, J.,
dissenting). Preventing flight is not a special governmental
interest—it is indistinguishable from the ordinary interest
in apprehending suspects. Similarly, the interest in inducing
residents to open locked doors or containers is nothing more than
the ordinary interest in investigating crime. That Summers
detentions aid police in uncovering evidence and nabbing criminals
does not distinguish them from the mine run of seizures unsupported
by probable cause, which the Fourth Amendment generally
proscribes.

															*  *  *

															Summers’ clear rule simplifies
the task of officers who encounter occupants during a search.
“[I]f police are to have workable rules, the balancing of the
competing in-terests . . . ‘must in large part be
done on a categorical basis—not in an ad hoc, case-by-case
fashion by individual police officers.’ ”
Id., at 705, n. 19 (quoting Dunaway,
supra, at 219–220 (White, J., concurring)); see also
Ari- zona v. Gant, 556
U.S. 332, 352–353 (2009) (Scalia, J., concurring). But
having received the advantage of Summers’ categorical
authorization to detain occupants incident to a search, the
Government must take the bitter with the sweet: Beyond
Summers’ spatial bounds, sei-zures must comport with
ordinary Fourth Amendment principles.

Notes
1
* The dissent purports to
agree “that the question involves drawing a line of
demarcation granting a categorical form of detention
authority.” Post, at 3. What the dissent misses is
that a “categorical” exception must be defined by
categorical limits. Summers’ authorization to
detain applies only to “occupants”—a bright-line
limitation that the dissent’s “reasonably
practicable” test discards altogether.


