::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-010
::decision_cite:: 568 U.S. 115 (2013)
::decision_name::  Lozman v. City of Riviera Beach
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–626

															_________________

															FANE LOZMAN, PETITIONER v. THE CITY OF
RIVIERA BEACH, FLORIDA

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[January 15, 2013]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, with whom Justice Kennedy
joins, dissenting.

															I agree with much of the Court’s
reasoning. Our precedents fully support the Court’s reasoning
that the Eleventh Circuit’s test is overinclusive; that the
subjective intentions of a watercraft’s owner or designer
play no role in the vessel analysis of 1 U. S. C.
§3; and that an ob- jective assessment of a watercraft’s
purpose or function governs whether that structure is a vessel. The
Court, however, creates a novel and unnecessary “reasonable
observer” reformulation of these principles and errs in its
determination, under this new standard, that the craft before us is
not a vessel. Given the underdeveloped rec- ord below, we should
remand. Therefore, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															The relevant statute, 1 U. S. C.
§3, “sweeps broadly.” Stewart v. Dutra
Constr. Co., 543 U.S.
481, 494 (2005). It provides that “[t]he word
‘vessel’ includes every description of watercraft or
other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a
means of transportation on water.” This broad phrasing flows
from admiralty law’s long recognition that vessels come in
many shapes and sizes. See E. Benedict, American Admiralty
§218, p. 121 (1870 ed.) (“[V]essel, is a general word,
many times used for any kind of navigation”); M. Cohen,
Admiralty Jurisdiction, Law, and Practice 232 (1883) (“[T]he
term ‘ves- sel’ shall be understood to comprehend every
description of vessel navigating on any sea or channel, lake or
river . . . ”).

															Our test for vessel status has remained the same
for decades: “Under §3, a ‘vessel’ is any
watercraft practically capable of maritime transportation
. . . .” Stewart, 543 U. S., at
497; see also Evansville & Bowling Green Packet Co. v.
Chero Cola Bottling Co., 271 U.S.
19, 22 (1926); Cope v. Vallette Dry Dock Co.,
119 U.S.
625, 627 (1887). At its core, vessel status has always rested
upon the objective physical characteristics of a vessel (such as
its structure, shape, and materials of construction), as well as
its usage history. But over time, several important principles have
guided both this Court and the lower courts in determining what
kinds of watercraft fall properly within the scope of admiralty
jurisdiction.

															Consider the most basic of requirements. For a
watercraft to be “practically capable” of maritime
transportation, it must first be “capable” of such
transportation. Only those structures that can simultaneously float
and carry people or things over water are even presumptively within
§3’s reach. Stopping here, as the Eleventh Circuit
essentially did, results in an overinclusive test. Section 3, after
all, does not drag every bit of floating and towable flotsam and
jetsam into admiralty jurisdiction. Rather, the terms
“capable of being used” and “practical”
have real significance in our maritime jurisprudence.

															“[A] water craft is not ‘capable of
being used’ for maritime transport in any meaningful sense if
it has been permanently moored.” Stewart, 543
U. S., at 494. So, to take an obvious example, a floating
bridge over water does not constitute a vessel; such mooring is
clearly permanent. Cf. The Rock Island Bridge, 6 Wall. 213,
216 (1867). Less dramatically, a watercraft whose objective
physical connections to land “evidence a permanent
location” does not fall within §3’s ambit. See,
e.g., Evansville, 271 U. S., at 22 (“[The
wharfboat] served at Evansville as an office, warehouse and wharf,
and was not taken from place to place. The connections with the
water, electric light and telephone systems of the city evidence a
permanent location”); Dunklin v. Louisiana
Riverboat Gaming Partnership, No. 00–31455, 2001 WL
650209, *1, n. 1 (CA5, May 22, 2001) (per curiam)
(describing a fully functional ca- sino boat placed “in an
enclosed pond in a cofferdam”). Put plainly, structures
“permanently affixed to shore or resting on the ocean
floor,” Stewart, 543 U. S., at 493–494,
have never been treated as vessels for the purposes of §3.

															Our precedents have also excluded from vessel
status those watercraft “rendered practically incapable of
transportation or movement.” Id., at 494. Take the
easiest case, a vessel whose physical characteristics have been so
altered as to make waterborne transportation a practical
impossibility. Ibid. (explaining that a “floating
processing plant was no longer a vessel where a ‘large
opening [had been] cut into her hull,’ rendering her
incapable of moving over the water” (quoting Kathriner
v. UNISEA, Inc., 975 F.2d 657, 660 (CA9 1992)). The
longstanding admiralty exception for “dead ships,”
those watercraft that “require a major overhaul” for
their “reactivation,” also falls into this category.
See Roper v. United States, 368 U.S.
20, 21 (1961) (finding that a liberty ship “deactivated
from service and ‘mothballed’ ” is not a
“vessel in navigation”); see generally Rutherglen, Dead
Ships, 30 J. Maritime L. & Comm. 677 (1999).[1] Likewise, ships that “have been
withdrawn from the water for extended periods of time” in
order to facilitate repairs and reconstruction may lose their
status as vessels until they are rendered capable of maritime
transport. Stewart, 543 U. S., at 496. Cf. West
v. United States, 361 U.S.
118, 120, 122 (1959) (noting that “the Mary Austin
was withdrawn from any operation whatever while in storage with the
‘moth-ball fleet’ ” and that “[t]he Mary
Austin, as anyone could see, was not in maritime service. She
was undergoing major repairs and complete renovation
. . . ”).

															Finally, our maritime jurisprudence excludes
from ves- sel status those floating structures that, based on their
physical characteristics, do not “transport people, freight,
or cargo from place to place” as one of their purposes.
Stewart, 543 U. S., at 493. “Purpose,” in
this context, is determined solely by an objective inquiry into a
craft’s function. “[N]either size, form, equipment nor
means of propulsion are determinative factors upon the question of
[vessel status],” though all may be considered. The Robert
W. Parsons, 191 U.S.
17, 30 (1903). Moreover, in assessing a particular
structure’s function, we have consis- tently examined its
past and present activities. Stewart, 543 U. S., at
495; Cope, 119 U. S., at 627. Of course, a seaborne
craft is not excluded from vessel status simply because its
“primary purpose” is not maritime transport.
Stewart, 543 U. S., at 497. We held as much in
Stewart when we concluded that a dredge was a vessel
notwithstanding that its “primary purpose” was
“dredging rather than transportation.” Id., at
486, 495. So long as one purpose of a craft is transportation,
whether of cargo or people or both, §3’s practical
capability requirement is satisfied.

															Certainly, difficult and marginal cases will
arise. Fortunately, courts do not consider each floating structure
anew. So, for example, when we were confronted in Stewart
with the question whether a dredge is a §3 vessel, we did not
commence with a clean slate; we instead sought guidance from
previous cases that had confronted similar structures. See
id., at 490, and n. 5; see also Norton v.
Warner Co., 321 U.S.
565, 571–572 (1944) (likewise surveying earlier
cases).

															In sum, our precedents offer substantial
guidance for how objectively to determine whether a watercraft is
practically capable of maritime transport and thus qualifies as a
§3 vessel. First, the capacity to float and carry things or
people is an obvious prerequisite to vessel status. Second,
structures or ships that are permanently moored or fixed in place
are not §3 vessels. Likewise, structures that are practically
incapable of maritime transport are not vessels, whether they are
ships that have been altered so that they may no longer be put to
sea, dead ships, or ships removed from navigation for extended
periods of time. Third, those watercraft whose physical
characteristics and usage history reveal no maritime transport
purpose or use are not §3 vessels.

															II

															The majority does not appear to disavow the
legal principles described above. The majority apparently accepts
that permanent mooring suffices to take a ship out of vessel
status, ante, at 8, 12,[2] and that “[a] craft whose physical
characteristics and activities objectively evidence a waterborne
transportation purpose or function may still be rendered a
nonvessel by later physical alterations,” ante, at
12–13.[3] No one argues
that Lozman’s craft was permanently moored, see App. 32
(describing the “deteriorated” ropes holding the craft
in place), or that it had un- dergone physical alterations
sufficient to take it out of vessel status, see Tr. of Oral Arg. 13
(Lozman’s counsel arguing that the craft was never a vessel
in the first place). Our precedents make clear that the Eleventh
Circuit’s “anything that floats” test is
overinclusive and ignores that purpose is a crucial factor in
determining whether a particular craft is or is not a vessel.
Accord- ingly, the majority is correct that determining whether
Lozman’s craft is a vessel hinges on whether that craft had
any maritime transportation purpose or function.

															The majority errs, though, in concluding that
the purpose component of the §3 test is whether “a
reasonable observer, looking to the [craft]’s physical
characteristics and activities, would not consider it to be
designed to any practical degree for carrying people or things on
water.” Ante, at 1. This phrasing has never appeared
in any of our cases and the majority’s use of it, despite its
seemingly objective gloss, effectively (and erroneously) introduces
a subjective component into the vessel-status inquiry.

															For one thing, in applying this test the
majority points to some characteristics of Lozman’s craft
that have no relationship to maritime transport, such as the style
of the craft’s rooms or that “those inside those rooms
looked out upon the world, not through water-tight portholes, but
through French doors or ordinary windows.” Ante, at 5.
The majority never explains why it believes these particular
esthetic elements are important for determining vessel status. In
fact, they are not. Section 3 is focused on whether a structure is
“used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation
on water.” By importing windows, doors, room style, and other
esthetic criteria into the §3 analysis, the majority gives our
vessel test an “I know it when I see it” flavor.
Jacobellis v. Ohio, 378 U.S.
184, 197 (1964) (Stewart, J., concurring). But that has never
been nor should it be the test: A badly designed and unattractive
vessel is different from a structure that lacks any
“practical capacity” for maritime transport. In the
major- ity’s eyes, the two appear to be one and the same.

															The majority’s treatment of the
craft’s past voyages is also strange. The majority notes that
Lozman’s craft could be and was, in fact, towed over long
distances, including over 200 miles at one point. Ante, at
2–6. But the major- ity determines that, given the design of
Lozman’s craft, this is “far too little actual
‘use’ to bring the floating home within the terms of
the statute.” Ante, at 14. This is because “when
it moved, it carried, not passengers or cargo, but at the very most
(giving the benefit of any factual ambiguity to the City) only its
own furnishings, its owner’s personal effects, and personnel
present to assure the home’s safety.” Ante, at
13–14.

															I find this analysis confusing. The majority
accepts that the record indicates that Lozman’s craft
traveled hundreds of miles while “carrying people or
things.” Ante, at 1. But then, in the same breath, the
majority concludes that a “reasonable observer” would
nonetheless conclude that the craft was not “designed to any
practical degree for carrying people or things on water.”
Ibid. The majority fails to explain how a craft that
apparently did carry people and things over water for long
distances was not “practically capable” of maritime
transport.

															This is not to say that a structure capable of
such feats is necessarily a vessel. A craft like Lozman’s
might not be a vessel, for example, if it could only carry its
owner’s clothes and personal effects, or if it is only
capable of transporting itself and its appurtenances. Jerome B.
Gru- bart, Inc. v. Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co.,
513 U.S.
527, 535 (1995) (“[M]aritime law . . .
ordinarily treats an ‘appurtenance’ attached to a
vessel in navigable waters as part of the vessel itself”).
But if such a craft can carry large appliances (like an oven or a
refrigerator) and all of the other things we might find in a normal
home in addition to the occupants of that home, as the existing
record suggests Lozman’s craft may have done, then it would
seem to be much more like a mobile home (and therefore a vessel)
than a firmly rooted residence. The simple truth is that we know
very little about the craft’s capabilities and what did or
did not happen on its various trips. By fo- cusing on the little we
do know for certain about this craft (i.e., its windows,
doors, and the style of its rooms) in determining whether it is a
vessel, the majority renders the §3 inquiry opaque and
unpredictable.

															Indeed, the little we do know about
Lozman’s craft suggests only that it was an unusual
structure. A sur- veyor was unable to find any comparable craft for
sale in the State of Florida. App. 43. Lozman’s home was
neither obviously a houseboat, as the majority describes such
ships, ante, at 5–6, nor clearly a floating home,
ante, at 10–11. See App. 13, 31, 79 (sale, lease, and
surveying documents describing Lozman’s craft as a
“houseboat”). The only clear difference that the
majority identifies between these two kinds of structures is that
the former are self-propelled, while the latter are not.
Ante, at 5–6. But even the majority recognizes that
self-propulsion has never been a prerequisite for vessel status.
Ante, at 5 (citing The Robert W. Parsons, 191
U. S., at 31); see Norton, 321 U. S., at 571.
Consequently, it is unclear why Lozman’s craft is a floating
home, why all floating homes are not vessels,[4] or why Lozman’s craft is not a vessel. If
windows, doors, and other esthetic attributes are what take
Lozman’s craft out of vessel status, then the major-
ity’s test is completely malleable. If it is the
craft’s lack of self-propulsion, then the majority’s
test is unfaithful to our longstanding precedents. See The
Robert W. Parsons, 191 U. S., at 30–31. If it is
something else, then that something is not apparent from the
majority’s opinion.

															Worse still, in straining to find that
Lozman’s craft was a floating home and therefore not a
vessel, the major- ity calls into question the conclusions of
numerous lower courts that have found houseboats that lacked
self-propulsion to be §3 vessels. See ante, at
9–10 (citing Miami River Boat Yard, Inc. v.
60’ Houseboat, 390 F.2d 596, 597 (CA5 1968); Sea
Village Marina, LLC v. A 1980 Carlcraft Houseboat, No.
09–3292, 2009 WL 3379923, *5–*6 (D NJ, Oct. 19, 2009);
Hudson Harbor 79th Street Boat Basin, Inc. v. Sea
Casa, 
469 F. Supp. 987, 989 (SDNY 1979)). The majority incorrectly
suggests that these cases applied an “ ‘anything that
floats’ ” test. Ante, at 9. These cases suggest
something different. Many of these decisions in assessing the
crafts before them looked carefully at these crafts’
structure and function, and determined that these ships had
capabilities similar to other long-established vessels, suggesting
a significant maritime transportation function. See Miami River
Boat Yard, 390 F. 2d, at 597 (likening houseboat at issue
to a “barg[e]”); Sea Village Marina, 2009 WL
3379923, *7 (“According to the available evidence, [the
houseboats in question] float and can be towed to a new marina
without substantial effort . . . ”); Hudson
Harbor, 469 F. Supp., at 989 (houseboat “was capable
of being used at least to the extent that a ‘dumb
barge’ is capable of being used” and comparable to a
“yach[t]”). Their holdings are consistent with older
cases, see, e.g., The Ark, 
17 F.2d 446, 447 (SD Fla. 1926), and the crafts at issue in
these cases have been widely accepted as vessels by most treatises
in this area, see 1 S. Friedell, Benedict on Admiralty §164,
p. 10–6, n. 2 (7th ed. rev. 2012); 1 T. Schoenbaum, Admiralty
& Maritime Law §3–6, p. 153, n. 10 (5th ed. 2011); 1
R. Force & M. Norris, The Law of Seamen §2:12, p.
2–82 (5th ed. 2003). The majority’s suggestion that
rejecting the Eleventh Circuit’s test necessitates
jettisoning these other precedents is simply wrong. And, in its
rejection, the majority works real damage to what has long been a
settled area of maritime law.[5]

															III

															With a more developed record, Lozman’s
craft might be distinguished from the houseboats in those lower
court cases just discussed. For example, if Lozman’s
craft’s previous voyages caused it serious damage, then that
would strongly suggest that it lacked a maritime trans- portation
purpose or function. There is no harm in remanding the case for
further factfinding along the lines described above, cautioning the
lower courts to be aware that features of Lozman’s
“incomparable” craft, see App. 43, may distinguish it
from previous precedents. At most, such a remand would introduce a
relatively short delay before finally ending the years-long battle
between Lozman and the city of Riviera Beach.

															On the other hand, there is great harm in
stretching the facts below and overriding settled and likely
correct lower court precedents to reach the unnecessary conclusion
that Lozman’s craft was not a vessel. Without an objective
application of the §3 standard, one that relies in a
predictable fashion only on those physical characteristics of a
craft that are related to maritime transport and use, parties will
have no ex ante notion whether a particular ship is a
vessel. As a wide range of amici have cautioned us, numerous
maritime industries rely heavily on clear and predictable legal
rules for determining which ships are vessels.[6] The majority’s distorted application of
our settled law to the facts of this case frustrates these ends.
Moreover, the majority’s decision reaches well beyond rel-
atively insignificant boats like Lozman’s craft, id.,
at 79 (listing purchase price of Lozman’s craft as $17,000),
because it specifically disapproves of lower court decisions
dealing with much larger ships, see ante, at 10 (questioning
Holmes v. Atlantic Sounding Co., 
437 F.3d 441 (CA5 2006) (finding a 140-foot-long and
40-foot-wide dormitory barge with 50 beds to be a §3
vessel)).

															IV

															It is not clear that Lozman’s craft is a
§3 vessel. It is clear, however, that we are not in a good
position to make such a determination based on the limited record
we pos- sess. The appropriate response is to remand the case for
further proceedings in light of the proper legal standard. See
Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 29–31. The
Court resists this move and in its haste to christen Lozman’s
craft a nonvessel delivers an analysis that will confuse the lower
courts and upset our longstanding admiralty precedent. I
respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 The converse category of
ships “not yet born” is another historical exclusion
from vessel status. See Tucker v. Alexandroff,
183 U.S.
424, 438 (1902) (“A ship is born when she is launched,
and lives so long as her identity is preserved. Prior to her
launching she is a mere congeries of wood and iron—an
ordinary piece of personal property—as distinctly a land
structure as a house, and subject only to mechanics’ liens
created by state law and enforceable in the state
courts”).
2
 In discussing permanent
mooring, as well as Stewart’s rejection of
primary-purpose and state-of-transit tests for vessel status,
Stewart v. Dutra Constr. Co., 543
U.S. 481, 495 (2005), the majority states that our holdings
“say, and they mean, that the statutory definition [given by
§3] may (or may not) apply—not that it
automatically must apply—where a structure has some
other primary purpose, where it is stationary at relevant
times, and where it is attached—but not permanently
attached—to land.” Ante, at 8. This must mean,
by negative impli-cation, that a permanently moored structure never
falls within §3’s definition.
3
 Presumably, this
encompasses those kinds of ships “otherwise rendered
practically incapable of transportation or movement.”
Stewart, 543 U. S., at 494. That is, ships which have
been altered so they cannot travel the seas, dead ships, and ships
removed from the water for an extended period of time.
Supra, at 3–4.
4
 To be clear, some
floating homes are obviously not vessels. For example, some
floating homes are structures built upon a large inverted pyramid
of logs. Brief for Seattle Floating Homes Assn. et al. as Amici
Curiae 14. Cf. App. 38 (Lozman’s craft was buoyed by an
empty bilge space). These kinds of floating homes can measure 4,000
or 5,000 square feet, see Brief for Seattle Floating Homes Assn. et
al. as Amici Curiae 4, and may have connections to land that
require the aid of divers and electricians to remove, ibid.
These large, immobile structures are not vessels and have physical
attributes directly connected to their lack of navigational
abilities that suggest as much. But these structures are not before
us; Lozman’s craft is.
5
 The majority’s
invocation of two state environmental and tax statutes as a reason
to reject this well-established lower court precedentis
particularly misguided. See ante, at 10–11. We have
repeatedly emphasized that the “regulation of maritime
vessels” is a “uniquely federal are[a] of
regulation.” Chamber of Commerce of United Statesof
America v. Whiting, 563 U. S. __, __ (2011)
(plurality opinion) (slip op., at 19) (emphasis added); see also
United States v. Locke, 529 U.S.
89, 99 (2000) (explaining that “the federal interest [in
regulating interstate navigation] has been manifest since the
beginning of our Republic and is now well established”). Our
previous cases did not turn to state law in determining whether a
given craft is a vessel. There are no good reasons to do so
now.
6
 For example, without
knowing whether a particular ship is a §3 vessel, it is
impossible for lenders to know how properly to characterize it as
collateral for a financing agreement because they do not know what
remedies they will have recourse to in the event of a default.
Brief for National Marine Bankers Assn. as Amicus Curiae
14–15. Similarly, cities like Riviera Beach provide docking
for crafts like Lozman’s on the assumption that such crafts
actually are “vessels,” App. 13–21 (Riviera
Beach’s wet-slip agreement referring to Lozman’s craft
as a “vessel,” “boat,” or
“houseboat”), that can be “remove[d]” upon
short notice, id., at 17 (requiring removal of the craft on
three days’ notice). The majority makes it impossible for
these marinas to know whether the “houseboats” that
fill their slips are actually vessels and what remedies they can
exercise in the event of a dispute. See id., at 15
(“In addition to any other remedies provided for in this
Agreement, the Marina, as a provider of necessities to this
vessel, has a maritime lien on the vessel and may
bring a civil action in rem under 46 United States Code
31342 in Federal Court, to arrest the vessel and enforcethe
lien . . . ” (emphasis added)). Lozman’s
behavior over the years is emblematic of this problem. For example,
in 2003, prior to his move to Riviera Beach, Lozman had his craft
towed from one marina to another after a dispute arose with the
first marina and he was threatened with eviction. App. 76–78.
The possibility that a shipowner like Lozman can depart so easily
over water and go beyond the reach of a provider of necessaries
like the marina in response to a legal dispute is exactly the kind
of problem that the Federal Maritime Lien Act, 46 U. S. C.
§31342, was intended to address. See Dampskibsselskabet
Dannebrog v. Signal Oil & Gas Co. of Cal., 310 U.S.
268, 272–273 (1940).


