::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-018
::decision_cite:: 568 U.S. 313 (2013)
::decision_name::  Evans v. Michigan
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–1327

															_________________

															LAMAR EVANS, PETITIONER v. MICHIGAN

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
michigan

															[February 20, 2013]

															

															Justice Alito, dissenting.

															The Court holds that the Double Jeopardy Clause
bars petitioner’s retrial for arson because his attorney
managed to convince a judge to terminate petitioner’s first
trial prior to verdict on the specious ground that the offense with
which he was charged contains an imaginary “element”
that the prosecution could not prove. The Court’s decision
makes no sense. It is not consistent with the original meaning of
the Double Jeopardy Clause; it does not serve the purposes of the
prohibition against double jeopardy; and contrary to the
Court’s reasoning, the trial judge’s ruling was not an
“acquittal,” which our cases have
“consistently” defined as a decision that
“ ‘actually represents a resolution, correct or
not, of some or all of the factual elements of the
offense charged.’ ” E.g., Smith v.
Massachusetts, 543 U.S.
462, 468 (2005) (quoting United States v. Martin
Linen Supply Co., 430 U.S.
564, 571 (1977); emphasis added). For no good reason, the Court
deprives the State of Michigan of its right to have one fair
opportunity to convict petitioner, and I therefore respectfully
dissent.

															I

															After Detroit police officers heard an
explosion at a burning house, they observed petitioner running away
from the building with a gasoline can. The officers pursued and
ultimately apprehended petitioner, who admitted that he had burned
down the house. No one was living in the house at the time of the
fire.

															If the house in question had been a
“dwelling house,” petitioner could have been charged
under Mich. Comp. Laws §750.72 (1981) for burning a dwelling,
an offense punishable by imprisonment for up to 20 years. But
petitioner was instead charged with “[b]urning other real
property” in violation of Mich. Comp. Laws §750.73. This
offense, which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years’
imprisonment, applies to “[a]ny person who wilfully or
maliciously burns any building or other real property
. . . other than those specified in
[§750.72].” This crime is a lesser included offense of
the crime of burning a dwelling house. The “necessary
elements to prove either offense are the same, except to prove the
greater [offense] it must be shown that the building is a
dwelling.” 491 Mich. 1, 19–20, 810 N.W.2d 535,
545–546 (2012) (internal quotation marks omitted). To prove
the lesser offense, however, “ ‘it is not
necessary to prove that the building is not a
dwelling.’ ” Id., at 20, 810
N. W. 2d, at 546 (emphasis added).

															At the close of the prosecution’s case,
petitioner’s attorney moved for a directed verdict on the
ground that (1) the prosecution was required to prove, as an
“element” of the charged offense, that “the
building was not a dwelling” and (2) “the
prosecution had failed to prove that the burned building was not a
dwelling house.” Id., at 5, 810 N. W. 2d, at 537.
The prosecutor responded by arguing that nothing in the charged
offense requires proof that the building was not a dwelling, and
the prosecutor requested “a moment” to “pull the
statute” and “consult with [her] supervisors.”
Id., at 5–7, 810 N. W. 2d, at 537–539. The
trial judge denied the prosecutor’s requests and errone-
ously concluded that the prosecution was required to prove that the
burned building was not a dwelling. After determining that the
State had not proved this nonexistent “element,” the
trial judge granted petitioner’s motion for a directed
verdict and entered an order that it labeled an
“[a]cquittal.” App. to Pet. for Cert. 72.

															The trial judge’s ruling was plainly
wrong, and on appeal, defense counsel did not even attempt to
defend its correctness, conceding that the judge had “wrongly
added an extraneous element to the statute” under which his
client was charged. 491 Mich., at 3, 810 N. W. 2d, at 536; see
also 288 Mich. App. 410, 416, and n. 2, 794 N.W.2d 848, 852,
and n. 2 (2010). The Michigan Court of Appeals agreed with
this concession and went on to hold that the trial judge’s
ruling did not constitute an “acquittal” for double
jeopardy purposes because the ruling did not represent “a
resolution in the defendant’s favor . . . of a fac-
tual element necessary for a criminal conviction.”
Id., at 421–422, 794 N. W. 2d, at 856 (internal
quotation marks omitted). The Michigan Supreme Court affirmed,
holding that when, as here, a trial judge erroneously adds an ex-
tra “element” to a charged offense and subsequently
determines that the prosecution did not prove that extra
“element,” the trial judge’s decision is not
based on the defendant’s guilt or innocence of the elements
of the charged offense. 491 Mich., at 3–4, 19–21, 810
N. W. 2d, at 536–537, 545–546. Accordingly, the
Michigan Supreme Court concluded that the judge’s ruling in
this case “does not constitute an acquittal for the purposes
of double jeopardy and retrial is . . . not
barred.” Id., at 4, 810 N. W. 2d, at 537.

															II

															This Court now reverses the decision of the
State Supreme Court, but the Court’s holding is supported by
neither the original understanding of the prohibition against
double jeopardy nor any of the reasons for that prohibition.

															A

															The prohibition against double jeopardy
“had its origin in the three common-law pleas of autrefois
acquit, autrefois convict, and pardon,” which
“prevented the retrial of a person who had previously been
acquitted, convicted, or pardoned for the same offense.”
United States v. Scott, 437 U.S.
82, 87 (1978); see Crist v. Bretz, 437 U.S.
28, 33 (1978). As the Court has previously explained,
“the common-law protection against double jeopardy
historically applied only to charges on which a jury had
rendered a verdict.” Smith, 543 U. S., at
466 (emphasis added).[1] As a
result, the original understanding of the Clause, which is
“hardly a matter of dispute,” Scott,
supra, at 87, does not compel the Court’s conclusion
that a defendant is acquitted for double jeopardy purposes whenever
a judge issues a preverdict ruling that the
prosecution has failed to prove a nonexistent “element”
of the charged offense.

															Although our decisions have expanded double
jeopardy protection beyond its common-law origins, see,
e.g., Smith, supra, at 466–467
(acknowledging the Court’s expansion of “the common-law
protection against double jeopardy”); Crist,
supra, at 33–34, I nonetheless count it significant
that the result the Court reaches today finds no support in the
relevant common-law analogues that “lie at the core of the
area protected by the Double Jeopardy Clause,” see
Scott, 437 U. S., at 96. And given how far we have
departed from the common-law principles that applied at the time of
the founding, we should at least ensure that our decisions in this
area serve the underlying purposes of the constitutional
prohibition against double jeopardy. See id., at
95–96, 100–101. Yet today’s decision fails to
advance the purposes of the Double Jeopardy Clause.

															B

															The Double Jeopardy Clause is largely based on
“the deeply ingrained principle that the State with all its
resources and power should not be allowed to make repeated attempts
to convict an individual for an alleged offense, thereby subjecting
him to embarrassment, expense and or- deal and compelling him to
live in a continuing state of anxiety and insecurity, as well as
enhancing the possibility that even though innocent he may be found
guilty.” Yeager v. United States, 557 U.S.
110, 117–118 (2009) (internal quotation marks omitted);
see also Blueford v. Arkansas, 566 U. S. ___,
___ (2012) (slip op., at 5); Martin Linen, 430 U. S.,
at 569. Allowing retrial in the circumstances of the present case
would not result in any such abuse. The prosecution would not be
afforded a second opportunity to persuade the factfinder that its
evidence satisfies the actual elements of the offense. Instead,
because the trial judge’s ruling in the first trial was not
based on an actual element of the charged offense, retrial would
simply give the prosecution one fair opportunity to prove its
case.

															Allowing retrial in this case would not permit
prosecutors “to make repeated attempts to convict an
individual for an alleged offense,” Yeager,
supra, at 117. It was petitioner, not the prosecutor,
who sought to terminate the trial prior to verdict. Thus, contrary
to the Court’s unexplained suggestion, see ante, at
5–6, “[t]his case hardly presents the specter of
‘an all-powerful state relentlessly pursuing a defendant who
had either been found not guilty or who had at least insisted on
having the issue of guilt submitted to the first trier of
fact.’ ” Sattazahn v. Pennsylvania,
537 U.S.
101, 114–115 (2003) (quoting Scott, supra,
at 96). On the contrary, this is a case in which defense counsel
fooled the judge into committing an error that provided his client
with an undeserved benefit, the termination of a trial that the
defense obviously did not want to run to completion. The Double
Jeopardy Clause does not require that the defense receive an even
greater benefit, the protection provided by an acquittal. As this
Court has repeatedly emphasized in double jeopardy cases, a State
has an interest in receiving “one complete opportunity to
convict those who have violated its laws,” Sattazahn,
supra, at 115 (internal quotation marks omitted);
Scott, supra, at 100, but today’s decision
deprives the State of Michigan of this valuable right.

															C

															The Court’s decision also flies in the
face of our established understanding of the meaning of an
acquittal for double jeopardy purposes. The Double Jeopardy Clause
provides that no person shall “be subject for the same
offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb.”
U. S. Const., Amdt. 5 (emphasis added). Thus,
“[d]ouble-jeopardy analysis focuses on the individual
‘offence’ charged.” Smith, 543 U. S.,
at 469, n. 3. And to determine what constitutes “the
individual ‘offence’ charged,” ibid., the
Court homes in on the elements of the offense. See United
States v. Dixon, 509 U.S.
688, 696 (1993) (“In both the multiple punishment and
multiple prosecution contexts, this Court has concluded that where
the two of- fenses for which the defendant is punished or tried
cannot survive the ‘same-elements’ test, the double
jeopardy bar applies”). Consistent with the constitutional
text’s focus on the “offence”—and thus the
elements—with which a defendant is charged, the Court’s
“double-jeopardy cases have consistently” defined an
acquittal as a decision that “ ‘actually
represents a resolution, correct or not, of some or all of the
factual elements of the offense charged.’ ”
Smith, supra, at 468 (quoting Martin Linen,
supra, at 571); see also Scott, supra, at 97
(“[A] defendant is acquitted only when the ruling of the
judge, whatever its label, actually represents a resolution in the
defendant’s favor, correct or not, of some or all of the
factual elements of the offense charged” (internal quotation
marks and brackets omitted)).

															Today, the Court effectively abandons the
well-established definition of an acquittal. Indeed, in the face of
our repeated holdings that an acquittal for double jeopardy
purposes requires a “resolution, correct or not, of some or
all of the factual elements of the offense charged,”
Smith, supra, at 468; Martin Linen,
supra, at 571; see also Scott, supra, at 97,
the Court now declares that “the touchstone [is] not
whether any particular elements were resolved,” ante,
at 10 (emphasis added). Instead, the Court proclaims that the
dispositive question is whether a midtrial termination represented
a “procedural dismissa[l]” or a “substantive
rulin[g],” ante, at 5. This reformulation of double
jeopardy law is not faithful to our prece- dents—or to the
Double Jeopardy Clause itself. The key question is not whether a
ruling is “procedural” or “substantive”
(whatever those terms mean in this context), but whether a ruling
relates to the defendant’s factual guilt or innocence with
respect to the “offence,” see U. S. Const., Amdt.
5—and thus the elements—with which he is charged. See
Scott, supra, at 87, 97–99, and n. 11.

															When a judge evaluates the evidence and
determines that the prosecution has not proved facts that are
legally sufficient to satisfy the actual elements of the charged
offense, the ruling, however labeled, represents an acquittal
because it is founded on the defendant’s factual innocence.
See Martin Linen, 430 U. S., at 572. But when a judge
manufactures an additional “element” of an offense and
then holds that there is insufficient evidence to prove that extra
“element,” the judge has not resolved the
defendant’s “factual guilt or innocence” as to
any of the actual elements of the offense.[2] Thus, the ruling, no matter what the judge calls it,
does not acquit the defendant of the offense with which he is
charged. No acquittal occurs when a criminal trial is terminated
“on a basis unrelated to factual guilt or innocence of the
offense of which [a defendant] is accused.” Scott, 437
U. S., at 87, 94–95, 98–99. “[I]n a case
such as this the defendant, by deliberately choosing to seek
termination of the proceedings against him on a basis unrelated to
factual guilt or innocence of the offense of which he is accused,
suffers no injury cognizable under the Double Jeopardy Clause if
the Government is permitted to appeal from such a ruling of the
trial court in favor of the defendant.” Id., at
98–99 (reasoning that, in such a case, the defendant was
“neither acquitted nor convicted, because he himself
successfully undertook to persuade the trial court not to submit
the issue of guilt or innocence to the jury which had been
empaneled to try him”).

															III

															Contrary to the Court’s opinion, its
decision in this case is not supported by prior precedent. In all
three of the principal cases on which the Court
relies—Smalis v. Pennsylvania, 476 U.S.
140 (1986); Smith, 543 U.S.
462; and Arizona v. Rumsey, 467 U.S.
203 (1984)—trial judges ruled that the prosecution had
failed to introduce sufficient evidence to prove one or more of the
actual elements of the offenses in question. In none of
these cases (and in none of our other double jeopardy cases) did a
trial judge terminate a prosecution before verdict based on an
element of the judge’s own creation.

															The first two cases, Smalis and
Smith, involved gar- den variety preverdict acquittals,
i.e., rulings based on the ground that the prosecution had
failed to introduce sufficient evidence to prove one or more of the
actual elements of an offense. (Using conventional modern
terminology, Rule 29(a) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
explicitly labels such rulings “acquittal[s].”)

															In Smalis, the judge, at the close of the
prosecution’s case in chief, granted a demurrer with respect
to certain charges on the ground that the evidence regarding those
charges was “legally insufficient to support a
conviction.” 476 U. S., at 141. The State Supreme
Court held that this ruling was not an acquittal for double
jeopardy purposes because it was based on a legal determination
(i.e., that the evidence was not sufficient) rather than a
factual finding, but we rejected that distinction. Id., at
143–144. See also Sanabria v. United States,
437 U.S.
54, 71–72 (1978).

															Smith involved a similar situation.
There, one of the elements of a firearms offense with which the
defendant was charged required proof that the gun “had a
barrel ‘less than 16 inches’ in length,” 543
U. S., at 464, and the trial judge dismissed this charge
before verdict on the ground that the prosecution had not
introduced sufficient evidence to establish this undisputed
element, id., at 464–465. Before the remaining charges
were submitted to the jury, however, the judge reversed this ruling
and allowed the charge to go to the jury. Id., at 465. We
held, how- ever, that the judge’s prior ruling constituted an
acquittal and therefore barred the defendant’s conviction for
this offense. Id., at 467–469. Thus, both
Smalis and Smith involved rulings that were very
different from the one at issue here. In both of those earlier
cases, the trial judges held that the evidence was insufficient to
prove undis- puted elements of the offenses in question. In neither
case did the judge invent a new element.

															The final case, Rumsey, differs from
Smalis and Smith in only one particular. Like
Smalis and Smith, Rumsey involved a ruling
that the prosecution’s evidence was in- sufficient to prove
an element, but in Rumsey the ruling was predicated on a
misconstruction of an element. In that case, after the defendant
was found guilty of first-degree murder, the “trial judge,
with no jury, . . . con- ducted a separate sentencing
hearing” at which he determined that no aggravating
circumstances were present. 467 U. S., at 205. In particular,
the judge found that the prosecution had not proved that the murder
had been committed “ ‘as consideration for the
receipt, or in expectation of the receipt, of anything of pecuniary
value.’ ” Id., at 205–206 (quoting
Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §13–703(F)(5) (Supp.
1983–1984)). The judge reached this conclusion because, in
his (incorrect) view, that aggravating circumstance was limited to
contract killings. 467 U. S., at 205–206. Holding that
the judge’s ruling constituted an acquittal on the merits of
the question whether a death sentence was appropriate, we noted
that the ruling rested on “a misconstruction of the statute
defining the pecuniary gain aggravating circumstance.”
Id., at 211. Accordingly, the ruling was based on a
determination that there was insufficient evidence to prove a real
element; it was not based on the judicial invention of an extra
“element.” And for that reason, it does not support the
nonsensical result that the Court reaches today.

															The Court may feel compelled to reach that
result because it thinks that it would be unworkable to draw a
distinction between a preverdict termination based on the trial
judge’s misconstruction of an element of an offense and a
preverdict termination based on the judge’s perception that a
statute contains an “element” that is actually
nonexistent. This practical concern is overblown. There may be
cases in which this determination presents problems, but surely
there are many cases in which the de- termination is quite easy.
The present case is a perfect example, for here there is no real
dispute that the trial judge’s ruling was based on a
nonexistent statutory “element.” As noted, defense
counsel conceded on appeal that the judge had “wrongly added
an extraneous element to the statute” under which his client
was charged. 491 Mich., at 3, 810 N. W. 2d, at 536.

															Another good example is provided by State
v. Korsen, 138 Idaho 706, 69 P.3d 126 (2003), where a
Magistrate erroneously concluded that the offense of criminal
trespass under Idaho law requires a showing that the defendant did
something to justify the property owner’s request for the
defendant to leave the premises. Id., at 710, 716–717,
69 P. 3d, at 130, 136–137. There is no question that the
Magistrate in Korsen “effectively created an
additional statutory element” before concluding that the
prosecution had presented insufficient evidence as to this
purported “element.” See ibid. (holding that
double jeopardy did not bar a retrial because the
Magistrate’s “finding did not actually determine in
[defendant’s] favor any of the essential elements of the
crime of trespass”).

															Cases in which it can be said that a trial judge
did not simply misinterpret a real element of an offense but
instead invented an entirely new and nonexistent
“element” are cases in which the judge’s error is
particularly egregious. Permitting retrial in these egregious cases
is especially appropriate.

															*  *  *

															I would hold that double jeopardy protection
is not triggered by a judge’s erroneous preverdict ruling
that creates an “element” out of thin air and then
holds that the element is not satisfied. I therefore respectfully
dissent.

Notes
1
 See also Crist,
437 U. S., at 33 (“The Fifth Amendment guarantee against
double jeopardy derived from English common law, which followed
. . . the relatively simple rule that a defendant has
been put in jeopardy only when there has been a conviction or an
acquittal—after a complete trial. . . . And it
is clear that in the early years of our national history the
constitutional guarantee against double jeopardy was considered to
be equally limited in scope”); 3 J. Story, Commentaries on
the Constitution of the United States §1781, p. 659
(1833) (“The meaning of [the Double Jeopardy Clause] is, that
a party shall not be tried a second time for the same offence,
after he has once been convicted, or acquitted of the offence
charged, by the verdict of a jury, and judgment has passed
thereon for or against him. But it does not mean, that he shall
not be tried for the offence a second time, if the jury have been
discharged without giving any verdict
. . . .” (emphasis added)); 2 M. Hale,
Pleas of the Crown 246 (1778) (“It must be an acquittal upon
trial either by verdict or battle”).
2
 Because culpability for
an offense can be negated by proof of an affirmative defense, the
Court has held that a ruling that the prosecution did not submit
sufficient evidence to rebut an affirmative defense constitutes an
acquittal for double jeopardy purposes. See Burks v.
United States, 437 U.S.
1, 10–11 (1978); Scott, 437 U. S., at
97–98. Thus, as used in this opinion, the
“elements” of an offense include legally recognized
affirmative defenses that would negate culpability.


