::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-028
::decision_cite:: 568 U.S. 627 (2013)
::decision_name::  Wos v. E. M. A.
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–98

															_________________

															ALDONA WOS, SECRETARY, NORTH CAROLINA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SER- VICES, PETITIONER v.
E. M. A., a minor, by and through her guardian
ad litem, DANIEL H. JOHNSON, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															[March 20, 2013]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice
Scalia and Justice Thomas join, dissenting.

															The State of North Carolina paid for
E. M. A.’s medical expenses under its Medicaid
plan. E. M. A. sued those al-leged to have caused her
injuries, eventually settling for an amount that included, among
other things, medical expenses already covered by North Carolina.
The federal Medicaid statute requires North Carolina to recoup
those expenses. But neither the Act nor the regulations issued
under it tell States how to determine what portion of a third-party
recovery should be attributed to medical expenses. The Court
concludes that North Carolina’s law addressing that question
is nonetheless preempted by the Act.

															The Court’s reading of the Act, while
plausible, is not compelled by the statutory text or our precedent.
It has the unfortunate consequence of denying flexibility to the
States—and, by necessary implication, the Secretary of Health
and Human Services—in resolving a policy question with broad
significance for this complicated program. In short, the result is
both unnecessary and unwise. I therefore respectfully dissent.

															I

															Medicaid is a cooperative federal-state
program designed to provide medical assistance to certain needy
populations. The basic idea is simple: The statute—as
interpreted by the Secretary of HHS—sets out the requirements
for an eligible Medicaid program. If States decide to enroll and
comply with those requirements, they get federal money. If they
don’t, they don’t. The federal contribution is not
enough to fully fund any State’s program; States contribute
anywhere from 17 to 50 percent of the costs. See 42
U. S. C. §1396d(b) (2006 ed., Supp. V). The States
have considerable discretion in structuring and administering their
programs, subject of course to federal law and regulations.

															In practice, it’s not always so simple.
The books are thick with federal regulations that States must
interpret and reconcile. By my count, at least 39 federal-court
opinions, including one of our own, have reiterated Judge
Friendly’s observation that Medicaid law is “almost
unintelligible to the uninitiated.” See Schweiker v.
Gray Panthers, 453 U.S.
34, 43 (1981) (quoting Friedman v. Berger, 547
F.2d 724, 727, n. 7 (CA2 1976)); see also 453 U. S., at
43, n. 14 (quoting the District Court’s description of
Medicaid in Friedman as “an aggravated assault on the
English language, resistant to attempts to understand it”).
“Perhaps appreciating the complexity of what it had wrought,
Congress conferred on the Secretary exceptionally broad authority
to prescribe standards for applying certain sec-tions of the
Act.” Schweiker, supra, at 43. But where the law and
the Secretary are silent on a specific ques-tion, it is up to the
States—sometimes informally advised by the federal Centers
for Medicare and Medi- caid Services—to make sense of it all
in running their programs.

															The relevant provisions here require that North
Caro- lina (1) pay for certain people’s medical care, (2)
make reasonable efforts to recoup from liable third parties (such
as tortfeasors and insurers) any medical expenses it paid, and (3)
not recoup such payments by imposing a lien on the
beneficiary’s property. See ante, at 4–5; see
also 42 U. S. C. §1396a(a)(25)(B) (2006 ed.). To
comply, North Carolina pays for a beneficiary’s medical
expenses on the condition that any such expenses the beneficiary
recovers from third parties will go towards repaying the State. See
N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann. §108A–59(a) (Lexis 2011).

															The difficulty, however, is that tort victims
seldom seek only medical expenses. Take this case:
E. M. A. and her parents sought damages not only for
medical expenses, but for lost income, pain and suffering, and
other things, and ended up settling all these claims for a lump sum
of $2.8 million. Such a situation poses the question of how much
North Carolina can recoup—indeed, under federal law,
must recoup—from a lump sum that reflects more than
just medical expenses.

															This puts North Carolina in a tight spot. If it
fails to recover what it must, it violates federal law. If it takes
a beneficiary’s property beyond medical expenses, it violates
federal law. Trying to navigate between these competing
requirements—with no interpretive guidance from the Secretary
of HHS—North Carolina elected to resolve the problem by
laying out ground rules in advance, conditioning a
beneficiary’s right to recover from third parties on the
beneficiary’s willingness to fully repay the State, or, at a
minimum, define one-third of her damages as “medical
expenses,” whichever is less. N. C. Gen. Stat. Ann.
§§108A–59(a); 108A–57(a); see also
Andrews v. Haygood, 362 N. C. 599,
603–604, 669 S.E.2d 310, 313–314 (2008).

															II

															The Court states that “[t]he
problem” with North Carolina’s designation—actual
expenses or one-third of the recovery, whichever is
less—“is not that it is an unreasonable approximation
in all cases,” and acknowledges that “[i]n some cases,
it may well be a fair estimate.” Ante, at 9. According
to the Court, however, because North Carolina’s law provides
no “mechanism for determining whether it is a reasonable
approximation in any particular case,” ibid.,
(emphasis added), it “directly conflict[s]” with the
“clear mandate” of the federal Medicaid statute, and is
therefore preempted. Ante, at 7 (quoting PLIVA, Inc.
v. Mensing, 564 U. S. __, __ (2011) (slip op., at 11)
(internal quotation marks omitted)), 10. This reflects a basic
policy judgment: that segregating medical expenses from a lump-sum
recovery must be done on a case-specific, after-the-fact basis,
rather than pursuant to a general rule spelled out in advance.

															The problem is that the Court can point to no
statutory or regulatory requirement, much less an unambiguous one,
requiring such an approach. The federal statute, which provides
that States must recoup medical expenses owed by third parties, and
which prevents States from placing a lien on a beneficiary’s
property, says nothing about how to comply with these two
requirements in the event of a settlement. See ante, at 1
(Breyer, J., concurring) (“The statute is silent on the
question”).

															Nor does our case law. As the Court
acknowledges, our decision in Arkansas Dept. of Health and Human
Servs. v. Ahlborn, was an easy one. 547 U.S.
268 (2006). There, the underlying tort suit settled for
$550,000, and the Medicaid beneficiary and the State of Arkansas
stipulated that only $35,581.47 of the settlement represented
medical expenses. The State nonetheless claimed it “was
entitled to a lien in the amount of
$215,645.30”—i.e., the total amount paid by the
State for the beneficiary’s health care. Id., at 274.
The question was whether the State could demand this money in light
of its stipulation that only $35,581.47 reflected medical expenses.
The answer, of course, was no. The State is only entitled to
recover medical expenses; nothing else. So when Arkansas contended
that it was entitled to money the beneficiary had received for
something other than medical expenses, we had no trouble rejecting
that argument. That proposition—that States may not take
money that is unrelated to medical expenses—does not help
answer the question here: May a State condition Medicaid benefits
on a beneficiary agreeing to define one-third of a tort recovery as
reflecting “medical expenses”?

															The Court recognizes that Ahlborn
“had no occasion to resolve” the question “how to
determine what portion of a settlement represents payment for
medical care,” ante, at 5, but then promptly proceeds
as if Ahlborn had done just that. The Court quotes
Ahlborn for the proposition that a State may not claim any
portion of a tort recovery “not ‘designated as payments
for medical care,’ ” and then faults North
Carolina’s law because it “sets forth no process for
determining what portion” is “attributable to med-ical
expenses.” Ante, at 6, 7 (quoting 547 U. S., at
284), 7. Ahlborn spoke of “designated” amounts
because, as noted, there was a stipulated designation in that case.
What to do when there is no such stipulation—when it’s
not clear “what portion of a settlement represents payment
for medical care”—is a different question. The Court
assumes the answer must be the same: that the settlement must be
parsed in every case, so that there is an actual, after-the-fact
designation in every case. If the parties do not agree on one, as
they did in Ahlborn, there must be a process in place for
reaching a case-specific attribution.

															The nature of the “process”
contemplated by the major- ity is unclear, but it must involve an
effort to determine what claims would have succeeded had there been
a trial, what the damages would have been for the separate claims,
and so on—the very sort of inquiries settlement is intended
to obviate. The Court talks of addressing these concerns through
“rebuttable presumptions and adjusted burdens of proof to
ensure that speculative assessments of a plaintiff’s likely
recovery do not defeat the State’s right to recover medical
costs,” but ominously declines to give any assurance
“that these rules are necessarily compliant with the federal
statute.” Ante, at 13.

															Nothing in Ahlborn requires all this, and
North Caro-lina has taken a different approach. It has adjusted its
tort law to account for its obligations under federal Medicaid law
by requiring that beneficiaries pay the State back in full or
designate one-third of any recovery as “medical
ex-penses,” whichever is less. This approach allows
bene-ficiaries to obtain settlements, “meet[s] concerns about
settlement manipulation,” Ahlborn, supra, at 288,
n. 18, complies with the statutory obligation that States make
reasonable efforts to recover medical expenses from liable third
parties, and guarantees that the beneficiary will never have to
give back more than she has already received from the State.

															There’s nothing unusual about such an
approach. States define the contours of their own tort law all the
time, setting rules about who may recover in particular
circumstances, what claims may be alleged, which parties are
liable, what defenses may be asserted, what damages are
recoverable, and so on. Doing so does not amount to imposing a lien
on any property to which an individual has a vested right under
state tort law. The Court says North Carolina cannot rely on its
“traditional authority to regulate tort actions”
because its rule in this case is not an exercise of its
“general authority.” Ante, at 11. The Court
cites no support for this vague new limitation on a State’s
power to define tort remedies under state law, and I am aware of
none.

															In fact, federal law says nothing about how
States must define the recovery available to a Medicaid beneficiary
suing a third party. That silence is a good indication that
Congress did not mean to strip States of their traditional
authority to regulate torts. See Wyeth v. Levine,
555 U.S.
555, 565 (2009) (“[I]n all pre-emption cases, and
particularly in those in which Congress has legislated in a field
which the States have traditionally occupied, we start with the
assumption that the historic police powers of the States were not
to be superseded by the Federal Act unless that was the clear and
manifest purpose of Congress” (internal quotation marks and
ellipses omitted)). The closest the Medicaid Act gets to this topic
is its requirement that States have “in effect laws under
which . . . the State is considered to have acquired the
rights of such individual to payment by any other party for such
health care items or services.” See 42 U. S. C.
§1396(a)(25)(H). That Congress has said nothing else about
what recovery a State must allow, though clearly aware of the
traditional power of States to regulate recoveries under private
law, should be worth something. Cf. Bonito Boats, Inc. v.
Thunder Craft Boats, Inc., 489 U.S.
141, 166–167 (1989) (“The case for federal
pre-emption is particularly weak where Congress has indicated its
awareness of the operation of state law in a field of federal
interest, and has nonetheless decided to stand by both concepts and
to tolerate whatever tension there [is] between them”
(internal quotation marks omitted)).

															The majority nonetheless dismisses North
Carolina’s solution as an arbitrary
“one-size-fits-all” approach, ante, at 10, that
has no “logical” endpoint; one that, if accepted, could
permit States to “designate half, three-quarters, or all of a
tort recovery in the same way.” Ante, at 8, 9. This is
an age-old objection to any line-drawing, to which Justice Holmes
provided a familiar response: “Neither are we troubled by the
question where to draw the line. That is the question in pretty
much everything worth arguing in the law.” Irwin v.
Gavit, 268 U.S.
161, 168 (1925). Whatever the case “as a doctrinal
matter,” it is in fact “easier to defend North
Carolina’s” one-third designation than the
Court’s hypothetical where a State allocates all of a
recovery to medical expenses. Ante, at 9. In addition, the
majority’s hobgoblin is less frightening when we remember
that North Carolina never takes back more than what it paid for
such expenses.

															The reasons for drawing a bright line, as North
Carolina has, are obvious and familiar. See generally Scalia, The
Rule of Law as a Law of Rules, 56 U. Chi. L. Rev. 1175 (1989).
Bright lines provide clear notice; here that means beneficiaries
know exactly where they stand with respect to reimbursing the State
as they negotiate settlements with third parties. Such clear rules
are easy, cheap, and administrable—laudable qualities in the
context of a vast and intricate program. The Court’s
approach, on the other end, requires the time of lawyers and
judges, and that time costs money—money better spent on
providing health care to the needy. Or so the State, responsible
for administering its program, could conclude, and nothing in the
statute, regulations, or our precedent says otherwise.

															The majority points out that nearly one-third of
the States conduct hearings of the sort it contemplates.
Ante, at 13. Good for them. The whole point of our federal
system is that different States may reach different judgments about
how to run their own different programs. Such flexibility is
particularly important in this context, where Medicaid spending is
the largest component of most state budgets. The Court also notes
that, in other areas, courts have undertaken the work of
“separat[ing] lump-sum settlements or jury awards into
categories to satisfy different claims.” Ibid. My
point is not that the work required by the Court cannot be
done—just that it has not been required by Congress or the
Secretary.

															On that note, it’s bad enough that the
Court finds the State’s reasonable effort to reconcile its
competing obligations preempted. What is doubly unfortunate is that
the Court’s analysis necessarily implies that the
Secretary’s hands are also tied. The Medicaid Act is Spending
Clause legislation, and such legislation is binding on States only
insofar as it is “unambiguous.” See Pennhurst State
School and Hospital v. Halderman, 451 U.S.
1, 17 (1981). In addition, the anti-lien provision only
precludes North Carolina’s law if, as the Court acknowledges,
there is a “direct conflict” between the two.
Ante, at 7 (quoting PLIVA, Inc., 564 U. S., at
___ (slip op., at 11) (internal quotation marks omitted). The Court
says—wrongly, I believe—that there is. Ante, at
10 (“An irrebuttable, one-size-fits-all statutory presumption
is incompatible with the Medicaid Act’s clear mandate
that a State may not demand any portion of a beneficiary’s
tort recovery except the share that is attributable to medical
expenses” (emphasis added)). But if North Carolina’s
approach directly conflicts with an unambiguous, clear mandate in
the Act—such that any presumption against preemption is
overcome, see Wyeth, supra, at 565,
n. 3—it’s hard to see how the Secretary could
adopt a similar approach. See Chevron U. S. A.
Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,
467 U.S.
837, 842–843 (1984) (“If the intent of Congress is
clear, that is the end of the matter; for the court, as well as the
agency, must give effect to the unambiguously expressed intent of
Congress”).

															The concurrence wishes this were not so, see
ante, at 4 (“today’s decision does not freeze
the Court’s present interpretation of the statute permanently
into law”), but fails to acknowledge the express rationale of
the Court’s opinion. There is no other way to read the
majority opinion than as foreclosing what the concurrence would
like to leave open.

															Or is there? In exactly two sentences, the Court
seems to falter and lose the courage of its conviction that a State
must have a process in place for an individual allocation of
medical expenses in every case. The Court views the problem with
North Carolina’s law as being that “the State provides
no evidence to substantiate its claim that the one-third allocation
is reasonable in the mine run of cases.” Ante, at 9.
That thought does not resurface until five pages later—and
only then—when the Court says that States “may even be
able to adopt ex ante administrative criteria for allocating
medical and nonmedical expenses, provided these criteria are backed
by evidence suggesting that they are likely to yield reasonable
results in the mine run of cases.” Ante, at 14.

															I am not sure whether this is a concession that
individualized hearings may not be required after all, but if it
is, it is flatly contrary to the rest of the opinion. It is also
quite odd to suggest that the problem with North Caro-lina’s
law would go away if only the State provided some sort of study
substantiating the idea that one-third was a good approximation in
most cases. North Carolina is not a federal agency, whose actions
are subject to review under the Administrative Procedure
Act’s “substantial evidence” test. See 5
U. S. C. §706(2)(E). We have never before, in a
preemption case, put the burden on the State to compile an
evidentiary record supporting its legislative determination. The
burden is, of course, on those challenging the law. See
Pharmaceutical Research and Mfrs. of America v.
Walsh, 538 U.S.
644, 661–662 (2003) (plurality opinion) (“We start
. . . with a presumption that the state statute is valid,
and ask whether petitioner has shouldered the burden of overcoming
that presumption” (citation omitted)). We have said that, as
a general matter, “Congress is not obligated, when enacting
its statutes, to make a record of the type that an administrative
agency or court does to accommodate judicial review.”
Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 520 U.S.
180, 213 (1997) (internal quotation marks omitted). Sovereign
States should be accorded no less deference.

															Keep in mind that the basis for all this is a
federal law that prohibits liens for medical assistance, but says
nothing about how medical and nonmedical expenses are to be
allocated. It is hard enough to figure out what the Medicaid Act
means by what it says; we should not read so much into its
silence.

															Ultimately, it is a basic policy judgment
whether the Medicaid program is best served in this instance by
post hoc individualized determinations, or whether the issue
may be addressed in advance, through a general rule, as North
Carolina has done here. See ante, at 1–2 (Breyer, J.,
concurring) (“any of several different answers to the
question would seem reasonable”). The Court can point to
nothing that delegates to it the prerogative to make that judgment.
Rather, States and the Secretary—working
together—should be afforded the leeway to make their joint
venture a workable one.

															Because North Carolina’s law does not
conflict with federal law, I would let it be. I respectfully
dissent.

													
