::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-007
::decision_cite:: 568 U.S. 85 (2013)
::decision_name::  Already, LLC v. Nike, Inc.
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Kennedy
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–982

															_________________

															ALREADY, LLC, dba YUMS, PETITIONER v.
NIKE, INC.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[January 9, 2013]

															

															Justice Kennedy, with whom Justice Thomas,
Justice Alito, and Justice Sotomayor join, concurring.

															As the Court now holds and as the precedents
instruct, when respondent Nike invoked the covenant not to sue to
show the case is moot, it had the burden to establish that
proposition. The burden was not on Already to show that a
justiciable controversy remains. Under the voluntary cessation
doctrine, Nike bears the “formidable burden of showing that
it is absolutely clear the allegedly wrongful behavior could not
reasonably be expected to recur.” Friends of the Earth,
Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services (TOC), Inc.,
528 U.S.
167, 190 (2000). In the circumstances here, then, Nike must
demonstrate that the covenant not to sue is of sufficient breadth
and force that Already can have no reasonable anticipation of a
future trademark infringement claim from Nike.

															Both the District Court and the Court of Appeals
issued their rulings on the erroneous premise that it was for
Already to make the relevant showing. When a court has imposed the
burden to establish a certain proposition on the wrong party,
remand from a reviewing court is often appropriate to determine
whether the outcome would have been different had the proper rule
been applied. Here, however, the Court concludes the case must be
deemed moot in all events, based on the terms and scope of the
covenant and on Already’s seeming insistence that no matter
how it might be worded, a covenant drawn by the trademark holder
cannot moot the case. Brief for Petitioner 33–34; Tr. of Oral
Arg. 10–13. For reasons the Court states, this goes too far.
Already appears also to dis-claim any need to determine whether
there is a real like-lihood it will produce a new product that,
first, is not a colorable imitation of its existing product line,
and, sec-ond, might be thought to infringe Nike’s
trademark.

															This brief, separate concurrence is written to
underscore that covenants like the one Nike filed here ought not to
be taken as an automatic means for the party who first charged a
competitor with trademark infringement suddenly to abandon the suit
without incurring the risk of an ensuing adverse adjudication.
Courts should be well aware that charges of trademark infringement
can be disruptive to the good business relations between the
manufacturer alleged to have been an infringer and its
dis-tributors, retailers, and investors. The mere pendency of
litigation can mean that other actors in the marketplace may be
reluctant to have future dealings with the alleged infringer. Nike
appears to have been well aware of that dynamic in this case. In
referring to Already it stated at one point: “[O]ver the past
eight months, Nike has cleared out the worst offending infringers.
Now Already remains as one of the last few companies that was
identified on that top ten list of infringers.” App.
114a.

															Any demonstrated reluctance by investors,
distributors, and retailers to maintain good relations with the
alleged infringer might, in an appropriate case, be an indication
that the market itself anticipates that a new line of products
could be outside the covenant not to sue yet still within a zone of
alleged infringement. And, as noted at the outset, it is the
trademark holder who has the burden to show that this is not the
case. It is not the burden of the alleged infringer to prove that
the covenant not to sue is inadequate to protect its current and
future products from a trademark enforcement action.

															In later cases careful consideration must be
given to the consequences of using a covenant not to sue as the
basis for a motion to dismiss as moot. If the holder of an alleged
trademark can commence suit against a competitor; in midcourse file
a covenant not to sue; and then require the competitor and its
business network to engage in costly, satellite proceedings to
demonstrate that future production or sales might still be
compromised, it would seem that the trademark holder’s burden
to show the case is moot may fall well short of being formidable.
The very suit the trademark holder initiated and later seeks to
de-clare moot may still cause disruption and costs to the
competition. The formidable burden to show the case is moot ought
to require the trademark holder, at the outset, to make a
substantial showing that the business of the competitor and its
supply network will not be disrupted or weakened by satellite
litigation over mootness or by any threat latent in the terms of
the covenant itself. It would be most unfair to allow the party who
commences the suit to use its delivery of a covenant not to sue as
an op-portunity to force a competitor to expose its future business
plans or to otherwise disadvantage the competitor and its business
network, all in aid of deeming moot a suit the trademark holder
itself chose to initiate.

															There are relatively few cases that have
discussed the meaning and effect of covenants not to sue in the
context of ongoing litigation. See, e.g., Revolution
Eyewear, Inc. v. Aspex Eyewear, Inc., 556 F.3d 1294 (CA
Fed. 2009); Car-aco Pharmaceutical Labs., Ltd. v.
Forest Labs., Inc., 527 F.3d 1278 (CA Fed. 2008). Courts
should proceed with caution before ruling that they can be used to
terminate litigation. An insistence on the proper allocation of the
formidable burden on the party asserting mootness is one way to
ensure that covenants are not automatic mechanisms for trademark
holders to use courts to intimi- date competitors without, at the
same time, assuming the risk that their trademark will be found
invalid and unenforceable.

															While there still may be some doubts that
Nike’s showing below would suffice in other circumstances,
here Already’s litigation stance does seem to have made
further proceedings on the mootness issue unnecessary. In addition,
as the Court notes, in any future trademark proceeding Nike will be
bound by the lower courts’ broad reading of this particular
covenant, thus barring suit against Already for any shoe that is
not an exact copy or counterfeit version of the Air Force 1 shoe.
See ante, at 7, and n. (citing New Hampshire v.
Maine, 532 U.S.
742, 749 (2001)).

															With these observations, I join the opinion and
judgment of the Court.

															

													
