::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-034
::decision_cite:: 569 U.S. 66 (2013)
::decision_name::  Genesis HealthCare Corp. v. Symczyk
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–1059

															_________________

															GENESIS HEALTHCARE CORPORATION, et al.,
PETITIONERS v. LAURA SYMCZYK

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the third circuit

															[April 16, 2013]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Ginsburg,
Justice Breyer, and Justice Sotomayor join, dissenting.

															The Court today resolves an imaginary question,
based on a mistake the courts below made about this case and others
like it. The issue here, the majority tells us, is whether a
“ ‘ collective action’ ”
brought under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA), 29
U. S. C. §201 et seq., “is
justiciable when the lone plaintiff’s individual claim
becomes moot.” Ante, at 1. Embedded within that
question is a crucial premise: that the individual claim has
become moot, as the lower courts held and the majority assumes
without deciding. But what if that premise is bogus? What if the
plaintiff’s individual claim here never became moot? And what
if, in addition, no similar claim for damages will ever become
moot? In that event, the majority’s decision—founded as
it is on an unfounded assumption—would have no real-world
meaning or application. The decision would turn out to be the most
one-off of one-offs, explaining only what (the majority thinks)
should happen to a proposed collective FLSA action when something
that in fact never happens to an individual FLSA claim is errantly
thought to have done so. That is the case here, for reasons
I’ll describe. Feel free to relegate the majority’s
decision to the furthest reaches of your mind: The situation it
addresses should never again arise.

															Consider the facts of this case, keeping an eye
out for anything that would render any part of it moot. Respondent
Laura Symczyk brought suit under a provision of the FLSA, 29
U. S. C. §216(b), “on behalf of herself and
others similarly situated.” App. 21. Her complaint alleged
that her former employer, petitioner Genesis Healthcare Corporation
(Genesis), violated the FLSA by treating 30 minutes of every shift
as an unpaid meal break, even when an employee worked during that
time. Genesis answered the complaint and simultaneously made an
offer of judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 68. That
settlement proposal covered only Symczyk’s individual claim,
to the tune of $7,500 in lost wages. The offer, according to its
terms, would “be deemed withdrawn” if Symczyk did not
accept it within 10 days. App. 79. That deadline came and went
without any reply. The case then proceeded in the normal fashion,
with the District Court setting a schedule for discovery. Pause
here for a moment to ask whether you’ve seen anything yet
that would moot Symczyk’s individual claim. No? Neither have
I.

															Nevertheless, Genesis moved to dismiss
Symczyk’s suit on the ground that it was moot. The supposed
logic went like this: We (i.e., Genesis) offered Symczyk
complete relief on her individual damages claim; she
“effectively reject[ed] the [o]ffer” by failing to
respond; because she did so, she “no longer has a personal
stake or legally cognizable interest in the outcome of this
action”; accordingly, the court “should dismiss her
claims.” Id., at 67. Relying on Circuit precedent, the
District Court agreed; it dismissed the case for lack of
jurisdiction—without awarding Symczyk any damages or other
relief—based solely on the unaccepted offer Genesis had made.
See App. to Pet. for Cert. 35 (citing Weiss v. Regal
Collections, 
385 F.3d 337, 340 (CA3 2004)). And finally, the Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit concurred that Genesis’s offer
mooted Symczyk’s individual claim (though also holding that
she could still proceed with a collective action). See 656 F.3d 189
(2011).

															That thrice-asserted view is wrong, wrong, and
wrong again. We made clear earlier this Term that “[a]s long
as the parties have a concrete interest, however small, in the
outcome of the litigation, the case is not moot.”
Chafin v. Chafin, 568 U. S. ___, ___ (2012)
(slip op., at 6) (internal quotation marks omitted). “[A]
case becomes moot only when it is impossible for a court to grant
any effectual relief whatever to the prevailing party.”
Ibid. (internal quotation marks omitted). By those measures,
an unaccepted offer of judgment cannot moot a case. When a
plaintiff rejects such an offer—however good the
terms—her interest in the lawsuit remains just what it was
before. And so too does the court’s ability to grant her
relief. An unaccepted settlement offer—like any unaccepted
contract offer—is a legal nullity, with no operative effect.
As every first-year law student learns, the recipient’s re-
jection of an offer “leaves the matter as if no offer had
ever been made.” Minneapolis & St. Louis
R. Co. v. Columbus Rolling Mill, 119 U.S.
149, 151 (1886). Nothing in Rule 68 alters that basic
principle; to the contrary, that rule specifies that “[a]n
unaccepted offer is considered withdrawn.” Fed. Rule Civ.
Proc. 68(b). So assuming the case was live before—because the
plaintiff had a stake and the court could grant relief—the
litigation carries on, unmooted.

															For this reason, Symczyk’s individual
claim was alive and well when the District Court dismissed her
suit. Recall: Genesis made a settlement offer under Rule 68;
Symczyk decided not to accept it; after 10 days, it expired and the
suit went forward. Symczyk’s individual stake in the lawsuit
thus remained what it had always been, and ditto the court’s
capacity to grant her relief. After the offer lapsed, just as
before, Symczyk possessed an unsatisfied claim, which the court
could redress by awarding her damages. As long as that remained
true, Symczyk’s claim was not moot, and the District Court
could not send her away empty-handed. So a friendly suggestion to
the Third Circuit: Rethink your mootness-by-unaccepted-offer
theory. And a note to all other courts of appeals: Don’t try
this at home.

															To this point, what I have said conflicts with
nothing in the Court’s opinion. The majority does not attempt
to argue, à la the Third Circuit, that the unaccepted
settlement offer mooted Symczyk’s individual damages claim.
Instead, the majority hangs its hat on a finding of waiver. See
ante, at 5, 11. The majority
notes—correctly—that Symczyk accepted the Third
Circuit’s rule in her briefs below, and also failed to
challenge it in her brief in opposition to the petition for
certiorari; she contested it first in her merits brief before this
Court. That enables the majority to “assume, without
deciding,” the mootness of Symczyk’s individual claim
and reach the oh-so-much-more-interesting question relating to her
proposed collective action. Ante, at 5.[1]

															But as this Court noted in a similar case,
“assum[ing] what the facts will show to be ridiculous”
about a predicate question—just because a party did not think
to challenge settled Circuit precedent—runs “a risk
that ought to be avoided.” Lebron v. National
Railroad Passenger Corporation, 513 U.S.
374, 382 (1995). The question Symczyk now raises (“Did an
unaccepted settlement offer moot my individual FLSA claim?”)
is logically prior to—and thus inextricably intertwined
with—the question the majority rushes to resolve (“If
an unaccepted settlement offer mooted Symczyk’s individual
FLSA claim, could a court proceed to consider her proposed
collective action?”). Indeed, the former is so much part and
parcel of the latter that the question Genesis presented for our
review— and on which we granted certiorari—actually
looks more like Symczyk’s than like the majority’s.
Genesis asked: “Whether a case becomes moot . . .
when the lone plaintiff receives an offer from the defendants to
satisfy all of the plaintiff’s claims.” Pet. for Cert.
i. Symczyk, of course, would respond “no,” because
merely receiving an offer does not moot any claim. The
majority’s refusal to consider that obviously correct answer
impedes “intelligent resolution of the question
presented.” Ohio v. Robinette, 519 U.S.
33, 38 (1996) (internal quotation marks omitted). By taking a
fallacy as its premise, the majority ensures it will reach the
wrong decision.

															Still, you might think, the majority’s
approach has at least this benefit: In a future FLSA case, when an
individual claim for damages in fact becomes moot, a court will
know what to do with the collective allegations. But no, even that
much cannot be said for the majority’s opinion. That is
because the individual claims in such cases will never
become moot, and a court will therefore never need to reach the
issue the majority resolves. The majority’s decision is fit
for nothing: Aside from getting this case wrong, it serves only to
address a make-believe problem.

															To see why, consider how a collective FLSA
action seeking damages unfolds. A plaintiff (just like Symczyk, but
let us now call her Smith, to highlight her typicality) sues under
§216(b) on behalf of both herself and others. To determine
whether Smith can serve as a representative party, the court
considers whether the workplace policy her suit challenges has
similarly affected other employees. If it has, the court supervises
their discovery and notification, and then “oversee[s] the
joinder” of any who want Smith to represent them. Hoffman
La-Roche Inc. v. Sperling, 493 U.S.
165, 171 (1989). During that period, as the majority observes,
the class has no “independent legal status.”
Ante, at 7. At the same time, Smith’s own claim is in
perfect health. Because it is a damages claim for past conduct, the
employer cannot extinguish it by adopting new employment practices.
Indeed, the claim would survive even Smith’s own demise,
belonging then to her estate. Smith’s individual claim, in
short, is not going away on its own; it can easily wait out the
time involved in assembling a collective action. Accord,
ante, at 9 (“[A] claim for damages cannot evade
review; it remains live until it is settled [or] judicially
resolved”).

															Now introduce a settlement offer into the
picture: Assume that before the court finally decides whether to
permit a collective action, the defendant proposes to pay Smith the
value of her individual claim in exchange for her abandonment of
the entire litigation. If Smith agrees, of course, all is over;
like any plaintiff, she can assent to a settlement ending her suit.
But assuming Smith does not agree, because she wishes to proceed on
behalf of other employees, could the offer ever succeed in mooting
her case? I have already shown that it cannot do so in the
circumstances here, where the defendant makes an offer, the
plaintiff declines it, and nothing else occurs: On those facts,
Smith’s claim is as it ever was, and the lawsuit continues
onward. But suppose the defendant addition- ally requests that the
court enter judgment in Smith’s favor—though over her
objection—for the amount offered to satisfy her individual
claim. Could a court approve that motion and then declare the case
over on the ground that Smith has no further stake in it? That
course would be less preposterous than what the court did here; at
least Smith, unlike Symczyk, would get some money. But it would be
impermissible as well.

															For starters, Rule 68 precludes a court from
imposing judgment for a plaintiff like Smith based on an unaccepted
settlement offer made pursuant to its terms. The text of the Rule
contemplates that a court will enter judgment only when a plaintiff
accepts an offer. See Rule 68(a) (“If . . . the
[plaintiff] serves written notice accepting the of- fer, either
party may then file the offer and notice of acceptance, plus proof
of service. The clerk must then enter judgment”). And the
Rule prohibits a court from considering an unaccepted offer for any
purpose other than allocating litigation costs—including for
the purpose of entering judgment for either party. See Rule 68(b)
(“Evidence of an unaccepted offer is not admissible except in
a proceeding to determine costs”). That injunction accords
with Rule 68’s exclusive purpose: to promote voluntary
cessation of litigation by imposing costs on plaintiffs who spurn
certain settlement offers. See Marek v. Chesny,
473 U.S.
1, 5 (1985). The Rule provides no appropriate mechanism for a
court to terminate a lawsuit without the plaintiff’s
consent.

															Nor does a court have inherent authority to
enter an unwanted judgment for Smith on her individual claim, in
service of wiping out her proposed collective action. To be sure, a
court has discretion to halt a lawsuit by entering judgment for the
plaintiff when the defendant unconditionally surrenders and only
the plaintiff’s obstinacy or madness prevents her from
accepting total victory. But the court may not take that tack when
the supposed capitulation in fact fails to give the plaintiff all
the law authorizes and she has sought. And a judgment satisfying an
individual claim does not give a plaintiff like Smith, exercising
her right to sue on behalf of other employees, “all that
[she] has . . . requested in the complaint (i.e., relief for
the class).” Deposit Guaranty Nat. Bank v.
Roper, 445 U.S.
326, 341 (1980) (Rehnquist, J., concurring). No more in a
collective action brought under the FLSA than in any other class
action may a court, prior to certification, eliminate the entire
suit by acceding to a defendant’s proposal to make only the
named plaintiff whole. That course would short-circuit a collective
action before it could begin, and thereby frustrate
Congress’s decision to give FLSA plaintiffs “the
opportunity to proceed collectively.” Hoffman
La-Roche, 493 U. S., at 170; see Roper, 445
U. S., at 339. It is our plaintiff Smith’s choice, and
not the defendant’s or the court’s, whether
satisfaction of her individual claim, without redress of her viable
classwide allegations, is sufficient to bring the lawsuit to an
end.

															And so, the question the majority answers should
never arise—which means the analysis the majority propounds
should never apply.[2] The
majority assumes that an individual claim has become moot, and then
asks whether collective allegations can still proceed by virtue of
the relation-back doctrine. But that doctrine comes into play only
when a court confronts a jurisdictional gap—an individual
claim becoming moot before the court can certify a representative
action. And in an FLSA case for damages, that gap cannot occur
(unless a court, as here, mistakenly creates it): As I have
explained, the plaintiff’s individual claim remains live all
the way through the court’s decision whether to join new
plaintiffs to the litigation. Without any gap to span, the
relation-back doctrine has no relevance. Neither, then, does the
majority’s decision.[3]

															The Court could have resolved this case (along
with a Circuit split, see ante, at 5, and n. 3) by
correcting the Third Circuit’s view that an unaccepted
settlement offer mooted Symczyk’s individual claim. Instead,
the Court chose to address an issue predicated on that
misconception, in a way that aids no one, now or ever. I
respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 The majority also
justifies this approach on the ground that Symczyk did not file a
cross-petition for certiorari objecting to the Third
Circuit’s decision. But that is because Symczyk got the
judgment she wanted in the Third Circuit. As the majority agrees, a
cross-petition is necessary only when a respondent seeks to
“alter” the judgment below. Ante, at 5; see E.
Gressman, K. Geller, S. Shapiro, T. Bishop, & E. Hartnett,
Supreme Court Practice 490 (9th ed. 2007) (“[A] party
satisfied with the action of a lower court should not have to
appeal from it in order to defend a judgment in his or her favor on
any ground”). Here, the Third Circuit reversed the District
Court’s dismissal of Sym-czyk’s FLSA suit, ruling that
her collective action could go forward even though her individual
claim was moot; accordingly, accepting Symczyk’s new argument
would lead not to modifying the appellate judgment, but to
affirming it on a different ground. In any event, we have never
held that the cross-petition requirement is jurisdictional. See
id., at 493–494. We can choose to excuse the absence
of a cross-petition for the same reasons, discussed next, that we
can consider an issue not raised below. See Vance v.
Terrazas, 444 U.S.
252, 258–259, n. 5 (1980).
2
 For similarly
questionable deployment of this Court’s adjudicatory
authority, see Comcast Corp. v. Behrend, 569
U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (joint opinion of Ginsburg and Breyer,
JJ.) (observing in dissent that “[t]he Court’s ruling
is good for this day and case only”).
3
 And that is a good thing,
because (just as a by-the-by) the majority’s opinion also
misconceives our decisions applying the relation-back doctrine. The
majority painstakingly distinguishes those decisions on their
individual facts, but misses their common take-away. In each, we
confronted a situation where a would-be class
representative’s individual claim became moot before a court
could make a final decision about the propriety of class
litigation; and in each, we used relation-back principles to
preserve the court’s ability to adjudicate on the merits the
classwide questions the representative raised. See, e.g., County
of Riverside v. McLaughlin, 500 U.S.
44, 51–52 (1991); Swisher v. Brady,
438 U.S.
204, 213–214, n. 11 (1978); Gerstein v.
Pugh, 420 U.S.
103, 110–111, n. 11 (1975); see also United States
Parole Comm’n v. Geraghty, 445
U.S. 388, 399, 404, n. 11 (1980); Sosna v.
Iowa, 419 U.S.
393, 402, n. 11 (1975). If, counter-factually, Symczyk’s
individual claim became moot when she failed to accept
Genesis’s offer of judgment, her case would fit comfortably
alongside those precedents. Because the District Court would not
then have had “enough time to rule on a motion” for
certification under §216(b), “the ‘relation
back’ doctrine [would be] properly invoked to preserve the
merits of the case for judicial resolution.”
McLaughlin, 500 U. S., at 52 (internal quotation marks
omitted).


