::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-038
::decision_cite:: 569 U.S. 184 (2013)
::decision_name::  Moncrieffe v. Holder
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–702

															_________________

															ADRIAN MONCRIEFFE, PETITIONER v. ERIC
H. HOLDER, Jr., ATTORNEY GENERAL

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[April 23, 2013]

															

															Justice Alito, dissenting.

															The Court’s decision in this case is not
supported by the language of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(INA) or by this Court’s precedents, and it leads to results
that Congress clearly did not intend.

															Under the INA, aliens[1] who are convicted of certain offenses may be removed
from this country, 8 U. S. C. §1227(a)(2) (2006 ed.
and Supp. V), but in many instances, the Attorney General (acting
through the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA)) has the discretion
to cancel re-moval, §§1229b(a), (b). Aliens convicted of
especially serious crimes, however, are ineligible for cancellation
of removal. §1229b(a)(3) (2006 ed.). Among the serious crimes
that carry this consequence is “illicit trafficking in a
controlled substance.” §1101(a)(43)(B).

															Under the Court’s holding today, however,
drug traffickers in about half the States are granted a
dispensation. In those States, even if an alien is convicted of
possessing tons of marijuana with the intent to distribute, the
alien is eligible to remain in this country. Large-scale marijuana
distribution is a major source of income for some of the
world’s most dangerous drug cartels, Dept. of Justice,
National Drug Intelligence Center, National Drug Threat Assessment
2, 7 (2011), but the Court now holds that an alien convicted of
participating in such activity may petition to remain in this
country.

															The Court’s decision also means that the
consequences of a conviction for illegal possession with intent to
distribute will vary radically depending on the State in which the
case is prosecuted. Consider, for example, an alien who is arrested
near the Georgia-Florida border in possession of a large supply of
marijuana. Under the Court’s holding, if the alien is
prosecuted and convicted in Georgia for possession with intent to
distribute, he is eligible for cancellation of removal. But if
instead he is caught on the Florida side of the line and is
convicted in a Florida court—where possession with intent to
distribute a small amount of marijuana for no remuneration is
covered by a separate statutory provision, compare Fla. Stat.
§893.13(3) (2010) with §893.13(1)(a)(2)—the alien
is likely to be ineligible. Can this be what Congress intended?

															I

															Certainly the text of the INA does not support
such a result. In analyzing the relevant INA provisions, the
starting point is 8 U. S. C. §1229b(a)(3), which
provides that a lawful permanent resident alien subject to removal
may apply for discretionary cancellation of removal if he has not
been convicted of any “aggravated felony.” The term
“aggravated felony” encompasses “illicit tracking
in a controlled substance . . . including a drug trafficking crime
(as defined in [ 18 U. S. C. §924(c)]).” 8
U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(B). And this latter provision
defines a “drug trafficking crime” to include
“any felony punishable under the Controlled Substances Act
(21 U. S. C. 801 et seq.).” 18
U. S. C. §924(c)(2). Thus “any felony
punishable under the [CSA]” is an “aggravated
felony.”

															Where an alien has a prior federal conviction,
it is a straightforward matter to determine whether the conviction
was for a “felony punishable under the [CSA].” But 8
U. S. C. §1101(a)(43) introduces a complication.
That provision states that the statutory definition of
“aggra-vated felony” “applies to an offense
described in this paragraph whether in violation of Federal or
State law.” (Emphasis added.) As noted, the statutory
definition of “aggravated felony” includes a
“felony punishable under the [CSA],” and therefore
§1101(a)(43)(B) makes it necessary to determine what is meant
by a state “offense” that is a “felony punishable
under the [CSA].”

															What §1101(a)(43) obviously contemplates is
that the BIA or a court will identify conduct associated with the
state offense and then determine whether that conduct would have
supported a qualifying conviction under the federal CSA.[2] Identifying and evaluating this
relevant conduct is the question that confounds the Court’s
analysis. Before turning to that question, however, some
preliminary principles should be established.

															In Lopez v. Gonzales, 549 U.S.
47, 50 (2006), we held that felony status is controlled by
federal, not state, law. As a result, once the relevant conduct is
identified, it must be determined whether proof of that conduct
would support a felony conviction under the CSA. The federal
definition of a felony is a crime punishable by imprisonment for
more than one year. 18 U. S. C.
§§3559(a)(1)–(5). Consequently, if the proof of the
relevant conduct would support a conviction under the CSA for which
the maximum term of imprisonment is more than one year, the state
conviction qualifies as a conviction for an “aggra-vated
felony.”

															II

															This brings us to the central question
presented in this case: how to determine and evaluate the conduct
that constitutes the state “offense.” One possibility
is that ac-tual conduct is irrelevant, and that only the elements
of the state crime for which the alien was convicted matter. We
have called this the “categorical approach,”
Taylor v. United States, 495
U.S. 575, 600 (1990), and we have generally used this
approach in determining whether a state conviction falls within a
federal definition of a crime, see id., at 600–601
(“Section 924(e)(2)(B)(i) defines ‘violent
felony’ as any crime punishable by imprisonment for more than
a year that ‘has as an element’—not any crime
that, in a particular case, involves—the use or threat of
force. Read in this context, the phrase ‘is burglary’
in §924(e)(2)(B)(ii) most likely refers to the elements of the
statute of conviction, not to the facts of each defendant’s
conduct”). But, as will be discussed below, we have also
departed in important ways from a pure categorical approach.

															The Court’s opinion in this case conveys
the impression that its analysis is based on the categorical
approach, but that is simply not so. On the contrary, a pure
categorical approach leads very quickly to the conclusion that
petitioner’s Georgia conviction was a conviction for an
“aggravated felony.”

															The elements of the Georgia offense were as
follows: knowledge, possession of marijuana, and the intent to
dis-tribute it. Ga. Code Ann. §16–13–30(j)(1)
(2007); Jack- son v. State, 295 Ga. App. 427, 435,
n. 28, 
671 S.E.2d 902, 
909, n. 28 (2009). Proof of those elements would be
sufficient to support a conviction under 21 U. S. C.
§841(a), and the maximum punishment for that offense is
imprisonment for up to five years, §841(b)(1)(D) (2006 ed.,
Supp. V), more than enough to qualify for felony treatment. Thus,
under a pure categorical approach, petitioner’s Georgia
conviction would qualify as a conviction for an “aggravated
felony” and would render him ineligible for cancellation of
removal.

															The Court departs from this analysis because
§841(b)(4) provides a means by which a defendant convicted of
violating §841(a) (2006 ed.) may lower the maximum term of
imprisonment to no more than one year. That provision states that
“any person who violates [§841(a)] by distributing a
small amount of marihuana for no remuneration shall be treated
as” a defendant convicted of simple possession, and a
defendant convicted of that lesser offense faces a maximum
punishment of one year’s imprisonment (provided that the
defendant does not have a prior simple possession conviction),
§844 (2006 ed., Supp. V). Reading this provision together with
§841(a), the Court proceeds as if the CSA created a two-tiered
possession-with-intent-to-distribute offense: a base offense that
is punishable as a misdemeanor and a second-tier offense
(possession with intent to distribute more than a “small
amount” of mari-juana or possession with intent to distribute
for remuneration) that is punishable as a felony.

															If the CSA actually created such a two-tiered
offense, the pure categorical approach would lead to the conclusion
that petitioner’s Georgia conviction was not for an
“aggravated felony.” The elements of the Georgia
offense would not suffice to prove the second-tier offense, which
would require proof that petitioner possessed more than a
“small amount” of marijuana or that he intended to
obtain remuneration for its distribution. Instead, proof of the
elements of the Georgia crime would merely estab- lish a violation
of the base offense, which would be a misdemeanor.

															The CSA, however, does not contain any such
two-tiered provision. And §841(b)(4) does not alter the
elements of the §841(a) offense. As the Court notes, every
Court of Appeals to consider the question has held that
§841(a) is the default offense and that §841(b)(4) is
only a mitigating sentencing guideline, see United States v.
Outen, 
286 F.3d 622, 636–639 (CA2 2002) (Sotomayor, J.)
(describing §841(b)(4) as a “mitigating
exception”); United States v. Hamlin, 
319 F.3d 666, 670 (CA4 2003) (collecting cases), and the Court
does not disagree, ante, at 11–13.

															Confirmation of this interpretation is provided
by the use of the term “small amount” in
§841(b)(4). If §841(b)(4) had been meant to alter the
elements of §841(a), Congress surely would not have used such
a vague term. Due process requires that the elements of a criminal
statute be defined with specificity. Connally v. General
Constr. Co., 269 U.S.
385, 393 (1926). Accordingly, it is apparent that
§841(b)(4) does not modify the elements of §841(a) but
instead constitutes what is in essence a mandatory sentencing
guideline. Under this provision, if a defendant is convicted of
violating §841(a), the defendant may attempt to prove that he
possessed only a “small amount” of marijuana and that
he did not intend to obtain remuneration for its distribution. If
the defendant succeeds in convincing the sentencing judge, the
maximum term of imprisonment is lowered to one year.

															In sum, contrary to the impression that the
Court’s opinion seeks to convey, the Court’s analysis
does not follow the pure categorical approach.

															III

															Nor is the Court’s analysis supported by
prior case law. The Court claims that its approach follows from our
decision in Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, 560
U. S. ___ (2010), but that case—unlike the Court’s
opinion—faithfully ap-plied the pure categorical
approach.

															In Carachuri-Rosendo, the alien had been
convicted in a Texas court for simple possession of a controlled
substance. Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6). At the time of that
conviction, Carachuri-Rosendo had a prior state conviction for
simple possession, but this fact was not charged or proved at his
trial and was apparently not taken into account in setting his
sentence, which was 10 days in jail. Id., at ___,
___–___ (slip op., at 5–6). Arguing that
Carachuri-Rosendo was ineligible for cancellation of removal, the
Government maintained that his second sim-ple possession conviction
qualified under the INA as a conviction for an “aggravated
felony.” Id., at ___ (slip op., at 5). This was so,
the Government contended, because, if Carachuri-Rosendo’s
second simple-possession prosecution had been held in federal
court, he could have been punished by a sentence of up to two years
due to his prior simple possession conviction. Id., at ___
(slip op., at 5).

															This more severe sentence, however, would have
required the federal prosecutor to file a formal charge alleging
the prior conviction; Carachuri-Rosendo would have been given the
opportunity to defend against that charge; and the heightened
sentence could not have been imposed unless the court found that
the prior conviction had occurred. Id., at ___ (slip
op., at 14).

															Our rejection of the Government’s argument
thus represented a straightforward application of the pure
categorical approach. The elements of the Texas offense for which
Carachuri-Rosendo was convicted were knowledge or intent,
possession of a controlled substance without a prescription, and
nothing more. Id., at ___ (slip op., at 6); Tex. Health
& Safety Code Ann. §§481.117(a), (b) (West 2010).
Proof of a prior simple possession conviction was not required, and
no such proof appears to have been offered. The maximum penalty
that could have been imposed under federal law for simple
possession (without proof of a prior simple possession conviction)
was one year’s imprisonment. Thus, proof in federal court of
the elements of the Texas offense would not have permitted a
felony-length sentence, and consequently the state conviction did
not qualify as a felony punishable under the CSA.

															IV

															Unsupported by either the categorical approach
or our prior cases, the decision of the Court rests instead on the
Court’s belief—which I share—that the application
of the pure categorical approach in this case would lead to results
that Congress surely did not intend.

															Suppose that an alien who is found to possess
two marijuana cigarettes is convicted in a state court for
possession with intent to distribute based on evidence that he
in-tended to give one of the cigarettes to a friend. Under the pure
categorical approach, this alien would be regarded as having
committed an “aggravated felony.” But this
classification is plainly out of step with the CSA’s
assessment of the severity of the alien’s crime because under
the CSA the alien could obtain treatment as a misdemeanant by
taking advantage of 21 U. S. C. §841(b)(4).

															For this reason, I agree with the Court that
such an alien should not be treated as having committed an
“aggravated felony.” In order to avoid this result,
however, it is necessary to depart from the categorical approach,
and that is what the Court has done. But the particular way in
which the Court has departed has little to recommend it.

															To begin, the Court’s approach is
analytically confused. As already discussed, the Court treats
§841(b)(4) as if it modified the elements of §841(a),
when in fact §841(b)(4) does no such thing. And the Court
obviously knows this because it does not suggest that
§841(b)(4) changes the elements of §841(a) for criminal
law purposes.[3]

															In addition, the Court’s approach leads to
the strange and disruptive results noted at the beginning of this
opinion. As an initial matter, it leads to major drug traffick-ing
crimes in about half the States being excluded from the category of
“illicit trafficking in a controlled substance.”
Moreover, it leads to significant disparities between equally
culpable defendants. We adopted the categorical ap-proach to avoid
disparities in our treatment of defendants convicted in different
States for committing the same criminal conduct. See Taylor,
495 U. S., at 590–591 (rejecting the view that state law
determined the meaning of “burglary” because
“[t]hat would mean that a person convicted of unlawful
possession of a firearm would, or would not, receive a sentence
enhancement based on exactly the same conduct, depending on whether
the State of his prior conviction happened to call that conduct
‘burglary’ ”). Yet the Court reintroduces
significant disparity into our treatment of drug offenders. All of
this can be avoided by candidly acknowledging that the categorical
approach is not the be-all and end-all.

															When Congress wishes to make federal law
dependent on certain prior state convictions, it faces a difficult
task. The INA provisions discussed above confront this problem, and
their clear objective is to identify categories of criminal conduct
that evidence such a high degree of societal danger that an alien
found to have engaged in such conduct should not be allowed to
obtain permission to remain in this country. Since the vast
majority of crimes are prosecuted in the state courts, Congress
naturally looked to state, as well as federal, convictions as a
metric for identifying these dangerous aliens.

															But state criminal codes vary widely, and some
state crimes are defined so broadly that they encompass both very
serious and much less serious cases. In cases involving such state
provisions, a pure categorical approach may frustrate
Congress’ objective.

															The Court has said that the categorical approach
finds support in the term “conviction.” Taylor,
supra, at 600; Shepard v. United States,
544 U.S.
13, 19 (2005). But the Court has never held that a pure
categorical approach is dictated by the use of that term,[4] and I do not think that it is. In
ordinary speech, when it is said that a person was convicted of or
for doing something, the “something” may include facts
that go beyond the bare elements of the relevant criminal offense.
For example, it might be said that an art thief was convicted of or
for stealing a Rembrandt oil painting even though neither the
identity of the artist nor the medium used in the painting are
elements of the standard offense of larceny. See 3 W. LaFave,
Substantive Criminal Law §19.1(a) (2d ed. 2003).

															For these reasons, departures from the
categorical approach are warranted, and this Court has already
sanctioned such departures in several circumstances. See
Taylor, supra, at 602 (modified categorical
approach); Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez, 549 U.S.
183, 193 (2007) (categorical approach does not exclude
state-law convictions unless there is “a realistic
probability, not a theoretical possibility, that the State would
apply its statute to conduct that falls outside the generic
definition of a crime”); Nijhawan v. Holder,
557 U.S.
29, 32 (2009) (interpreting an enumerated “aggravated
felony” in 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43) not to be a
generic crime). Consistent with the flexibility that the Court has
already recognized, I would hold that the categorical approach is
not controlling where the state conviction at issue was based on a
state statute that encompasses both a substantial number of cases
that qualify under the federal standard and a substantial number
that do not. In such situations, it is appropriate to look beyond
the elements of the state offense and to rely as well on facts that
were admitted in state court or that, taking a realistic view, were
clearly proved. Such a look beyond the elements is particularly
appropriate in a case like this, which involves a civil proceeding
before an expert agency that regularly undertakes factual inquiries
far more daunting than any that would be involved here. See,
e.g., Negusie v. Holder, 555
U.S. 511 (2009).

															Applying this approach in the present case, what
we find is that the Georgia statute under which petitioner was
convicted broadly encompasses both relatively minor offenses
(possession of a small amount of marijuana with the intent to
share) and serious crimes (possession with intent to distribute
large amounts of marijuana in exchange for millions of dollars of
profit). We also find that petitioner had the opportunity before
the BIA to show that his criminal conduct fell into the category of
relatively minor offenses carved out by §841(b)(4).
Administrative Record 16–26. The BIA takes the entirely
sensible view that an alien who is convicted for possession with
intent to distribute may show that his conviction was not for an
“aggravated felony” by proving that his conduct fell
within §841(b)(4). Matter of Castro-Rodriguez, 25
I. & N. Dec. 698, 701–702 (2012). Petitioner,
for whatever reason, availed himself only of the opportunity to
show that his conviction had involved a small amount of marijuana
and did not present evidence—or even contend—that his
offense had not involved remuneration. Administrative Record
16–26, 37. As a result, I think we have no alternative but to
affirm the decision of the Court of Appeals, which in turn affirmed
the BIA.

Notes
1
 “Alien” is
the term used in the relevant provisions of the Immigration and
Nationality Act, and this term does not encompass all noncitizens.
Compare 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(3) (defining
“alien” to include “any person not a citizen or
national of the United States”) with §1101(a)(22)
(defining “national of the United States”). See also
Miller v. Albright, 523 U.S.
420, 467, n. 2 (1998) (Ginsburg, J.,
dissenting).
2
 The Court’s
disagreement with this proposition, ante at 12, n. 8, is
difficult to understand. If, as 8 U. S. C.
§1101(a)(43) quite plainly suggests and the Court has held, a
state conviction can qualify as an “aggravated felony,”
we must determine what is meant by a state “of-fense”
that is a “felony punishable under the [CSA].” There is
noway to do this other than by identifying a set of relevant
conduct and asking whether, based on that conduct, the alien could
have been con-victed of a felony if prosecuted under the CSA in
federal court. In reject-ing what it referred to as a
“hypothetical approach,” the Carachuri-Rosendo
Court was addressing an entirely different question, specifi-cally,
which set of conduct is relevant. Carachuri-Rosendo
v. Holder, 560 U. S. ___, ___–___ (2010) (slip
op., at 8, 15–17). We held that the relevant set of conduct
consisted of that which was in fact charged and proved in the
state-court proceeding, not the set of conduct that could have been
proved in a hypothetical federal proceeding.
3
 The Court defends its
interpretation of 21 U. S. C. §§841(a), (b)(4)
by arguing that Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, 560
U. S. ___ (2010), re-jected any recourse to a
“hypothetical approach” for determining howa criminal
prosecution likely would have proceeded, see ante, at 12,and
that is true enough. But, as discussed above, see n. 2,
supra, just because the categorical approach does not
require conjecture as to whether a hypothetical federal prosecutor
would be likely to charge and prove a prior conviction does not
mean that it also precludes analysis of the structure of the
federal criminal statute at hand. Indeed, our categorical-approach
cases have done little else. See, e.g., Carachuri-Rosendo,
supra, at ___ (slip op., at 14) (discussing procedural
protections Carachuri-Rosendo would have enjoyed had he been
prosecuted federally); Gonzales v. Duenas-Alvarez,
549 U.S.
183, 185, 189–194 (2007) (the term “theft
offense” in 8 U. S. C. §1101(a)(43)(G)
includes the crime of aiding and abetting a theft
offense).
4
 Instead, the Court
adopted the categorical approach based on a combination of factors,
including judicial efficiency. See Taylor, 495 U. S.,
at 601 (“[T]he practical difficulties and potential
unfairness of a factual approach are daunting. In all cases where
the Government alleges that the defendant’s actual conduct
would fit the generic definition of burglary, the trial court would
have to determine what that conduct was”).


