::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-051
::decision_cite:: 569 U.S. 483 (2013)
::decision_name::  Hillman v. Maretta
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–1221

															_________________

															JACQUELINE HILLMAN, PETITIONER v. JUDY
A. MARETTA

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
virginia

															[June 3, 2013]

															

															Justice Alito, concurring in the judgment.

															I concur in the judgment. Because one of the
purposes of the Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance Act
of 1954 (FEGLIA) is to implement the expressed wishes of the
insured, I would hold that a state law is pre-empted if it
effectively overrides an insured’s actual, articulated choice
of beneficiary. The challenged provision of Virginia law has that
effect.

															By way of background, Va. Code Ann.
§20–111.1(A) (Lexis Supp. 2012) provides that the entry
of a divorce de-cree automatically revokes an insured’s prior
designa- tion of his or her former spouse as the beneficiary of the
policy. And where, as in this case, the insured remarries after the
divorce and dies before making a new FEGLIA designation, the
proceeds, under 5 U. S. C. §8705(a), are
automatically paid to the insured’s former spouse. Under the
provision of Virginia law at issue here, the surviving spouse is
entitled to recover those proceeds from the former spouse. See Va.
Code Ann. §20–111.1(D). Section 20–111.1(D)
apparently requires this result even if the in-sured manifests a
clear contrary intent, such as by providing specifically in a
recent will that the proceeds are to go to another party—for
example, the insured’s children by the former marriage.
Because §20–111.1(D) overrides the insured’s
express intent (whether that intent is expressed via a beneficiary
designation or through other reliable means), I agree that it is
pre-empted by FEGLIA.

															Interpreted in light of our prior decisions in
Wissner v. Wissner, 338 U.S.
655 (1950), and Ridgway v. Ridgway, 454 U.S.
46 (1981), FEGLIA seems to me to have two primary purposes or
objectives.

															The first is administrative convenience. It is
easier for an insurance administrator to pay insurance proceeds to
the person whom the insured has designated on a specified form
without having to consider claims made by others based on some
other ground. But §20–111.1(D) does not affect the
initial payment of proceeds. It operates after the funds are
received by the designated beneficiary, and it thus causes no
inconvenience for those who administer the payment of FEGLIA
proceeds.

															The second purpose or objective is the
effectuation of the insured’s expressed intent above
all other considerations. That was the basis for the decisions in
Wissner and Ridgway, as I understand them. In both
cases, there was a conflict between a person whom the insured had
desig-nated as his beneficiary and another person whose claim to
the proceeds was not based on the insured’s expressed intent,
and in both cases, the Court held in favor of the designated
beneficiary.

															The present case bears a similarity to
Wissner and Ridgway in that petitioner’s claim
depends upon a state stat-ute that automatically alters the
ultimate recipient of a divorced employee’s insurance
proceeds. To be sure, Virginia’s provision may well reflect
the unexpressed preferences of the majority of insureds
whose situations are similar to that of the insured in this
case—that is, individuals who, after divorce and remarriage,
fail to change a prior designation of a former spouse as the
beneficiary of the policy. But FEGLIA prioritizes the
insured’s expressed intent. And it is telling that, on
petitioner’s theory, she would still be entitled to the
insurance proceeds even if, for example, the insured had died
shortly after executing a new will leaving those proceeds to
someone else. This shows that her claim is based on something other
than a manifestation of the insured’s intent. Because
§20–111.1(D) operates as a blunt tool to override the
insured’s express declaration of his or her intent, it
conflicts with FEGLIA’s purpose of prioritizing an
insured’s articulated wishes above all other
considerations.

															In affirming the decision below, the Court goes
well beyond what is necessary and opines that the party designated
as the beneficiary under a FEGLIA policy must be allowed to keep
the insurance proceeds even if the in-sured’s contrary and
expressed intent is indisputable—for example, when the
insured writes a postdivorce will specifically leaving the proceeds
to someone else. See ante, at 11. The Court’s
explanation is as follows: “Congress sought to ensure that an
employee’s intent would be given effect only through the
designation of a beneficiary or through the narrow exceptions
specifically provided in the statute.” Ibid.,
n. 3. In other words, Congress wanted the designated
beneficiary—rather than the person named in a later
will—to keep the proceeds because Congress wanted the named
beneficiary to keep the proceeds. Needless the say, this circular
reasoning does not explain why Congress might have wanted
the designated beneficiary to keep the proceeds even when that is
indisputably contrary to the insured’s expressed wishes at
the time of death. I am doubtful that any purpose or objective of
FEGLIA would be honored by such a holding, but it is not necessary
to resolve that question in this case.

															For these reasons, I concur in the judgment.

															

													
