::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-030
::decision_cite:: 569 U.S. 1 (2013)
::decision_name::  Florida v. Jardines
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–564

															_________________

															FLORIDA, PETITIONER v. JOELIS
JARDINES

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
florida

															[March 26, 2013]

															

															Justice Kagan, with whom Justice Ginsburg and
Justice Sotomayor join, concurring.

															For me, a simple analogy clinches this
case—and does so on privacy as well as property grounds. A
stranger comes to the front door of your home carrying
super-high-powered binoculars. See ante, at 7, n. 3. He
doesn’t knock or say hello. Instead, he stands on the porch
and uses the binoculars to peer through your windows, into your
home’s furthest corners. It doesn’t take long (the
binoculars are really very fine): In just a couple of minutes, his
uncommon behavior allows him to learn details of your life you
disclose to no one. Has your “visitor” trespassed on
your property, exceeding the license you have granted to members of
the public to, say, drop off the mail or distribute campaign
flyers? Yes, he has. And has he also invaded your “reasonable
expectation of privacy,” by nosing into intimacies you
sensibly thought protected from disclosure? Katz v.
United States, 389 U.S.
347, 360 (1967) (Harlan, J., concurring). Yes, of course, he
has done that too.

															That case is this case in every way that
matters. Here, police officers came to Joelis Jardines’ door
with a super-sensitive instrument, which they deployed to detect
things inside that they could not perceive unassisted. The
equip-ment they used was animal, not mineral. But contra the
dissent, see post, at 2 (opinion of Alito, J.) (noting the
ubiquity of dogs in American households), that is of no
significance in determining whether a search occurred. Detective
Bartelt’s dog was not your neighbor’s pet, come to your
porch on a leisurely stroll. As this Court discussed earlier this
Term, drug-detection dogs are highly trained tools of law
enforcement, geared to respond in distinctive ways to specific
scents so as to convey clear and reliable information to their
human partners. See Florida v. Harris, 568 U. S.
___ (2013) (slip op. at 2–3, 7–8). They are to the
poodle down the street as high-powered binoculars are to a piece of
plain glass. Like the binoculars, a drug-detection dog is a
specialized device for discovering objects not in plain view (or
plain smell). And as in the hypothetical above, that device was
aimed here at a home—the most private and inviolate (or so we
expect) of all the places and things the Fourth Amendment protects.
Was this activity a trespass? Yes, as the Court holds to-day. Was
it also an invasion of privacy? Yes, that as well.

															The Court today treats this case under a
property rubric; I write separately to note that I could just as
happily have decided it by looking to Jardines’ privacy
interests. A decision along those lines would have looked
. . . well, much like this one. It would have talked
about “ ‘the right of a man to retreat into his
own home and there be free from unreasonable governmental
intrusion.’ ” Ante, at 4 (quoting
Silverman v. United States, 365
U.S. 505, 511 (1961)). It would have insisted on maintaining
the “practical value” of that right by preventing
police officers from standing in an adjacent space and
“trawl[ing] for evidence with impunity.” Ante,
at 4. It would have explained that “ ‘privacy
expectations are most heightened’ ” in the home
and the surrounding area. Ante, at 4–5 (quoting
California v. Ciraolo, 476 U.S.
207, 213 (1986)). And it would have determined that police
officers invade those shared expectations when they use trained
canine assistants to reveal within the confines of a home what they
could not otherwise have found there. See ante, at
6–7, and nn. 2–3.

															It is not surprising that in a case involving a
search of a home, property concepts and privacy concepts should so
align. The law of property “naturally enough
influence[s]” our “shared social expectations” of
what places should be free from governmental incursions.
Georgia v. Randolph, 547 U.S.
103, 111 (2006); see Rakas v. Illinois, 439 U.S.
128, 143, n. 12 (1978). And so the sentiment “my home is
my own,” while originating in property law, now also denotes
a common understanding—extending even beyond that law’s
formal protections—about an especially private sphere.
Jardines’ home was his property; it was also his most
intimate and familiar space. The analysis proceeding from each of
those facts, as today’s decision reveals, runs mostly along
the same path.

															I can think of only one divergence: If we had
decided this case on privacy grounds, we would have realized that
Kyllo v. United States, 533 U.S.
27 (2001), already resolved it.[1] The Kyllo Court held that police officers
conducted a search when they used a thermal-imaging device to
detect heat emanating from a private home, even though they
committed no trespass. Highlighting our intention to draw both a
“firm” and a “bright” line at “the
entrance to the house,” id., at 40, we announced the
following rule:

															“Where, as here, the Government uses
a device that is not in general public use, to explore details of
the home that would previously have been unknowable without
physical intrusion, the surveillance is a ‘search’ and
is presumptively unreasonable without a warrant.”
Ibid.

															That “firm” and “bright”
rule governs this case: The police officers here conducted a search
because they used a “device . . . not in general
public use” (a trained drug-detection dog) to “explore
details of the home” (the presence of certain substances)
that they would not otherwise have discovered without entering the
premises.

															And again, the dissent’s argument that the
device is just a dog cannot change the equation. As Kyllo
made clear, the “sense-enhancing” tool at issue may be
“crude” or “sophisticated,” may be old or
new (drug-detection dogs actually go back not “12,000
years” or “centuries,” post, at 2, 8, 12,
but only a few decades), may be either smaller or bigger than a
breadbox; still, “at least where (as here)” the device
is not “in general public use,” training it on a home
violates our “minimal expectation of privacy”—an
expectation “that exists, and that is acknowledged to
be reasonable.” 533 U. S., at 34, 36.[2] That does not mean the device is
off-limits, as the dissent implies, see post, at
11–12; it just means police officers cannot use it to examine
a home without a warrant or exigent circumstance. See Brigham
City v. Stuart, 547 U.S.
398, 403–404 (2006) (describing exigencies allowing the
warrantless search of a home).

															With these further thoughts, suggesting that a
focus on Jardines’ privacy interests would make an
“easy cas[e] easy” twice over, ante, at 10, I
join the Court’s opinion in full.

Notes
1
 The dissent claims,
alternatively, that Illinois v. Caballes, 543 U.S.
405, 409–410 (2005), controls this case (or nearly does).
See post, at 9, 11. But Caballes concerned a
drug-detection dog’s sniff of an automobile during a traffic
stop. See also Florida v. Harris, 568 U. S. ___
(2013). And we have held, over and over again, that people’s
expectations of privacy are much lower in their cars than in their
homes. See, e.g., Arizona v. Gant, 556 U.S.
332, 345 (2009); Wyoming v. Houghton, 526 U.S.
295, 303 (1999); New York v. Class, 475 U.S.
106, 115 (1986); Cardwell v. Lewis, 417 U.S.
583, 590–591 (1974) (plurality opinion).
2
 The dissent’s other
principal reason for concluding that no violation of privacy
occurred in this case—that police officers themselves might
detect an aroma wafting from a house—works no better. If
officers can smell drugs coming from a house, they can use that
information; a human sniff is not a search, we can all agree. But
it does not follow that a person loses his expectation of privacy
in the many scents within his home that (his own nose capably tells
him) are not usually detectible by humans standing outside. And
indeed, Kyllo already decided as much. In response to an
identical argument from the dissent in that case, see 533
U. S., at 43 (Stevens, J., dissenting) (noting that humans can
sometimes detect “heat emanating from a building”), the
Kyllo Court stated: “The dissent’s comparison of
the thermal imaging to various circumstances in which outside
observers might be able to perceive, without technology, the heat
of the home . . . is quite irrelevant. The fact that
equivalent information could sometimes be obtained by other means
does not make lawful the use of means that violate the Fourth
Amendment. . . . In any event, [at the time in
question,] no outside observer could have discerned the relative
heat of Kyllo’s home without thermal imaging.”
Id., at 35, n. 2.


