::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-045
::decision_cite:: 569 U.S. 329 (2013)
::decision_name::  PPL Corp. v. Comm'r of Internal Revenue
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–43

															_________________

															PPL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES, PETITION-
ERS v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the third circuit

															[May 20, 2013]

															

															Justice Sotomayor, concurring.

															The Court’s conclusion that the windfall
tax is a creditable excess profits tax under 26 U. S. C.
§901(b)(1) depends on two interrelated analytic moves: first,
restricting the “predominant character” analysis to
those companies that shared an “initial period” of rate
regulation of 1,461 days; and second, treating the tax’s
initial period variable as fixed. See ante, at 9–10.
But there is a different way of looking at this case. If the
predominant character inquiry is expanded to include the five
companies that had dif- ferent initial periods, especially those
with much shorter initial periods, it becomes impossible to rewrite
the windfall tax as an excess profits tax. Instead, it becomes
clear that the windfall tax is functionally a tax on value. But
because the Government took the position at oral argument that the
predominant character inquiry should disregard such
“outlie[r]” companies, see Tr. of Oral Arg.
38–39, and this argument is therefore only pressed by
amici, Brief for Anne Alstott et al. as Amici
Curiae 28–30 (hereinafter Alstott Brief), I reserve
consideration of this argument for another day and another context
and join the Court’s opinion.

															*  *  *

															The Internal Revenue Code provides that
“income, war profits, and excess profits taxes” paid to
a foreign country are creditable. 26 U. S. C. §901(b)(1).
Whether a foreign tax falls within one of these categories depends
on whether its “predominant character . . . is that
of an income tax in the U. S. sense.” 26 CFR
§1.901–2(a)(1)(ii) (2010). As the Court explains, there
are three components to this in- quiry, ante, at 4–7,
but at its core the inquiry simply asks whether a foreign tax
resembles a typical income, war profits, or excess profits tax,
ante, at 6.

															Importantly, though, the relevant Treasury
Regulations also provide that a foreign tax “is or is not an
income tax, in its entirety, for all persons subject to the
tax.” 26 CFR §1.901–2(a)(1). One way to understand
this language is that for a tax to be classed as a creditable
income tax, its predominant character must be that of an income tax
with respect to “all persons subject to the tax.” Of
course, among the many persons subject to a tax, some may face tax
burdens different from the majority of affected taxpayers. The
challenge in applying predominant character analysis will sometimes
lie in determining whether and how such outlier taxpayers affect
the characterization of a given tax.[1]

															The windfall tax at issue here exemplifies this
problem. As the Court notes, ante, at 2–3, the parties
stipulated to the following form of the windfall tax:

															

															If the predominant character analysis is
restricted to those 27 companies that share an identical initial
period length, then it makes sense to fix D at 1,461, as the Court
does. Ante, at 9–10. And from there, it is just a
matter of basic algebra, ante, at 9, and n. 4, to show
that these companies’ tax liability is equal to total profits
minus a threshold amount (in this case, 44.47% of each
company’s flotation value) multiplied by a percentage-form
tax rate: Tax=51.71%×P-44.47%×FV. See ante, at
9; Brief for Petitioners 10. Because an excess profits tax is
generally a tax levied on the profits of a business beyond a
particular threshold, see Wells, Legislative History of Excess
Profits Taxation in the United States in World Wars I and II, 4
Nat. Tax J. 237, 243 (1951), it appears to follow that the windfall
tax can properly be characterized as an excess profits tax.

															But not all of the 32 affected companies had an
initial period length of 1,461 days; 5 of the companies had dif-
ferent initial periods. See App. 34, 39–41. When these
different initial period values are inserted into the formulation
proposed by PPL, two results follow. First, these companies have
tax rates different from the 51.71% rate the Court calculates for
the 27 other companies. Second, their excess profits threshold also
varies.

															For example, consider Railtrack Group, a clear
outlier with an initial period of 316 days. Inserting this value
into the stipulated formula yields the following:

															

															Applying the Court’s algebra, this formula
can be reduced to the following: Railtrack Group’s
Tax=239.10%×[P-(9.62%×FV)]. Railtrack Group’s
“effective” tax rate and its excess profits threshold
(239.10% and 9.62% respec- tively) are very different from those
companies with the common initial period length of 1,461 days
(51.71% and 44.47%). See ante, at 10. Railtrack Group is not
alone in this respect: four other companies also had tax rates and
excess profits thresholds that differed from the majority of
affected companies. See App. 34, 38–40.[2]

															Once these outlier companies are included in the
creditability analysis, it becomes clear that the windfall tax
“is not an income tax . . . for all
persons” subject to it. 26 CFR §1.901–2(a)(1)
(emphasis added). A typical income tax applies a fixed percentage
rate to a base income that varies across taxpayers. An excess
profits tax does the same, but incorporates a threshold, which may
or may not vary across taxpayers, to exempt a portion of the base
from taxation. In contrast, here both of the rate and threshold
components vary from company to company according to the D
variable.[3]

															Seen through this lens, the windfall tax is
really a tax on average profits. See Alstott Brief 28–30.
Under the parties’ stipulated form of the windfall tax, each
company pays a fixed tax rate of 23% on a base that is calculated
by first multiplying a company’s daily average profits during
its initial period (i.e., P/D , or total profits over the
initial period divided by the length of the initial period) by a
fixed price-to-earnings ratio; and then subtracting that com-
pany’s flotation value FV. See ante, at 2. In
practice, this means that, for example, a company that earns $100
million over 1,461 days would pay approximately the same amount of
taxes as a company that has earned $25 million over 365 days. These
two companies would have almost the same average profits.
See Alstott Brief 28. This is not how an income tax works.

															The difference between a tax on profits and tax
on average profits is especially significant for properly
characterizing a tax such as the windfall tax. Average daily
profits multiplied by a price-to-earnings ratio, rather than being
a way of approximating income, is a way of approximating
value.[4] See Thompson, A
Lawyer’s Guide to Modern Valuation Techniques in Mergers and
Acquisitions, 21 J. Corp. L. 457, 532–533 (1996) (describing
similar valuation techniques using price-to-earnings ratios).
Accordingly, incorporating an outlier like Railtrack Group into the
predominant character analysis suggests that the windfall tax is a
tax on a company’s value. Railtrack Group and the companies
like it are not random outliers, Brief for Petitioners 38,
n. 3, but instead are critical pieces of data for
understanding how the tax actually functioned as a matter of
“economic realit[y].” Commissioner v.
Southwest Exploration Co., 350 U.S.
308, 315 (1956).

															This argument, however, rests on the premise
that because the relevant regulations state that “a tax
either is or is not an income tax, in its entirety, for all persons
subject to the tax,” 26 CFR §1.901–2(a)(1)(ii), a
tax’s predominant character must be as an income tax for
all taxpayers. But if a tax only needs to be an income tax
for “a substantial number of taxpayers” and does not
have to “satisfy the predominant character test in its
application to all taxpayers,” Exxon Corp. v.
Commissioner, 113 T.C. 338, 352 (1999), then this average
profits argument cannot get off the ground. Under this reading, the
regulations tell courts to treat outliers like Railtrack Group as
flukes.

															At oral argument, the Government apparently
rejected the notion that “outliers” like Railtrack
Group are relevant to creditability analysis. See Tr. of Oral Arg.
35–39. The Government also did not argue these
outliers’ relevance before the Court of Appeals, ante,
at 14, n. 6, and so this argument, and the regulatory
interpretation it depends upon, has only been presented to this
Court by amici, see Alstott Brief 17–18, 28–30.
We are not barred from considering statutory and regulatory
interpretations raised in an amicus brief, but we should be
“reluctant to do so,” Davis v. United
States, 512 U.S.
452, 457, n. (1994), when the issue is one of first impression
and the Federal Government has staked out what appears to be a
contrary position. Thus, while I find this argument persuasive, I
do not base my analysis of this case on it and therefore concur in
the Court’s opinion.

Notes
1
 For example, some taxes
may produce outliers that might suggest that the tax is not an
income tax, when in fact the tax is attemptingto reach net gain and
therefore has the predominant character of an income tax. This
situation often arises when a tax relies on imperfect estimates and
assumptions in attempting to calculate net gain. Such a tax strives
to treat similarly situated taxpayers the same but fails to do so
only because the estimated component inadvertently affects some
taxpayers differently. A situation of this kind occurred in
Texasgulf, Inc. v. Commissioner, 
172 F.3d 209 (CA2 1999). In that case, a Canadian mining tax
did not permit taxpayers to deduct their specific expenses, but did
permit them to deduct a fixed “processing allowance.”
Id., at 211–213. The taxpayer argued that the tax was
creditable because the processing allowance was an attempt to reach
net income, gross income minus expenses, by using
“ ‘a method that is likely to produce an amount
that approximates, or is greater than, recovery of such significant
costs and expenditures.’ ” Id., at 215
(quoting 26 CFR §1.901–2(b)(4)(i)(B) (1999)). To support
its argument, the taxpayer introduced empirical evidence that
roughly 85% of companies facing mining tax liability had
nonrecoverable expenses less than the processing allowance.
Texasgulf, Inc., 172 F. 3d, at 215–216. The Court
of Appeals agreed with the taxpayer that the tax was a creditable
income tax because it was clear that the mining tax was attempting
to reach net income, albeit by using an estimate to calculate
deductions. Id.,at 216–217. This result is sensible: A
company that happens to have deductible expenses greater than the
fixed amount set by the processing allowance is not an instructive
outlier regarding the mining taxes predominant character. The
mining tax is attempting to reach that company’s net income,
but fails to do only because it relies on an approximate value for
deductions.
2
 The figures for the other
four companies are as follows: Powergen plc, which had an initial
period of 1,463 days had a tax rate of 51.64% and an excess profits
threshold of 44.54%, App. 38–39; National Power plc, which
had an initial period of 1,456 days, had a rate of 51.89% and a
threshold of 44.32%, id., at 39–40; Northern Ireland
Electricity plc, which had an initial period of 1,380 days, had a
rate of 54.75% and a threshold of 42.01%, id., at 40; and
British Energy plc, which had an initial period of 260 days, had a
rate of 290.60% and a threshold of 7.91%, id., at 34.
British Energy, however, did not end up having any windfall tax
liability. Id., at 33.
3
 At oral argument, PPL
contended that an excess profits tax in which the excess profits
threshold varies according to market capitalization would also have
an effective tax rate that varies across taxpayers but remains
creditable. Tr. of Oral Arg. 26–27. That might be true, but
that does not describe the situation here. In PPL’s
hypothetical, any shift in the effective tax rate depends on the
profits threshold; Here, under PPL’s version of the windfall
tax, both the effective tax rate and the profits threshold move
proportionately to a company’s initial period
length.
4
 Petitioners suggested at
oral argument that because some of the outlier taxpayers may have
been subject to a more favorable regulatory regime in the wake of
their privatization, their outsized tax rates are less meaningful
because they could recoup their windfall tax burdens. See
id., at 16–17. Even accepting the premise of this
argument, it still does not change that fact that in
“substance,” ante, at 9, the tax functioned as
value tax for these companies.


