::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-037
::decision_cite:: 569 U.S. 141 (2013)
::decision_name::  Missouri v. McNeely
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–1425

															_________________

															MISSOURI, PETITIONER v. TYLER G.
McNEELY

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
missouri

															[April 17, 2013]

															

															Chief Justice Roberts, with whom Justice
Breyer and Justice Alito join, concurring in part and dissenting in
part.

															A police officer reading this Court’s
opinion would have no idea—no idea—what the Fourth
Amendment requires of him, once he decides to obtain a blood sample
from a drunk driving suspect who has refused a breathalyzer test. I
have no quarrel with the Court’s “totality of the
circumstances” approach as a general matter; that is what our
cases require. But the circumstances in drunk driving cases are
often typical, and the Court should be able to offer guidance on
how police should handle cases like the one before us.

															In my view, the proper rule is straightforward.
Our cases establish that there is an exigent circumstances
exception to the warrant requirement. That exception applies when
there is a compelling need to prevent the imminent destruction of
important evidence, and there is no time to obtain a warrant. The
natural dissipation of alcohol in the bloodstream constitutes not
only the imminent but ongoing destruction of critical evidence.
That would qualify as an exigent circumstance, except that there
may be time to secure a warrant before blood can be drawn. If there
is, an officer must seek a warrant. If an officer could reasonably
conclude that there is not, the exigent circumstances exception
applies by its terms, and the blood may be drawn without a
warrant.

															I

															The Fourth Amendment provides:

															“The right of the people to be
secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against
unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no
Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or
affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched,
and the persons or things to be seized.”

															That language does not state that warrants are
required prior to searches, but this Court has long held that
warrants must generally be obtained. See Kentucky v.
King, 563 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 5). We
have also held that bodily intrusions like blood draws constitute
searches and are subject to the warrant requirement. See
Schmerber v. California, 384
U.S. 757, 767, 770 (1966).

															However, “the ultimate touchstone of the
Fourth Amendment is ‘reasonableness,’ ”
Brigham City v. Stuart, 547 U.S.
398, 403 (2006), and thus “the warrant requirement is
subject to certain reasonable exceptions,” King, 563
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 6). One of those exceptions is
known as the “exigent circumstances exception,” which
“applies when the exigencies of the situation make the needs
of law enforcement so compelling that a warrantless search is
objectively reasonable under the Fourth Amendment.”
Ibid. (internal quotation marks and alterations
omitted).

															Within the exigent circumstances exception, we
have identified several sets of exigent circumstances excusing the
need for a warrant. For example, there is an emergency aid
exception to the warrant requirement. In Brigham City,
supra, at 403, we held that “law enforcement officers
may enter a home without a warrant to render emergency assistance
to an injured occupant or to protect an occupant from imminent
injury.” There is also a fire exception to the warrant
requirement. In Michigan v. Tyler, 436 U.S.
499, 509 (1978), we held that “[a] burning building
clearly presents an exigency of sufficient proportions to render a
warrantless entry ‘reasonable.’ ” And there
is a hot pur-suit exception to the warrant requirement as well. In
United States v. Santana, 427 U.S.
38 (1976), and Warden, Md. Penitentiary v.
Hayden, 387 U.S.
294 (1967), we recognized “the right of police, who had
probable cause to believe that an armed robber had entered a house
a few minutes before, to make a warrantless entry to arrest the
robber and to search for weapons.” Santana,
supra, at 42. In each of these cases, the requirement that
we base our decision on the “totality of the
circumstances” has not prevented us from spelling out a
general rule for the police to follow.

															The exigency exception most on point here is the
one for imminent destruction of evidence. We have affirmed on
several occasions that “law enforcement officers may make a
warrantless entry onto private property . . . to prevent
the imminent destruction of evidence.” Brigham City,
supra, at 403 (citing Ker v. California,
374 U.S.
23, 40 (1963) (plurality opinion)); see also, e.g.,
King, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 6). For example, in
Ker, the police had reason to believe that the defendant was
in possession of marijuana and was expecting police pursuit. We
upheld the officers’ warrantless entry into the
defendant’s home, with the plurality explaining that the
drugs “could be quickly and easily destroyed” or
“distributed or hidden before a warrant could be obtained at
that time of night.” 374 U. S., at 40, 42.

															As an overarching principle, we have held that
if there is a “compelling need for official action and no
time to secure a warrant,” the warrant requirement may be
excused. Tyler, supra, at 509. The question here is
whether and how this principle applies in the typical case of a
police officer stopping a driver on suspicion of drunk driving.

															II

															A

															The reasonable belief that critical evidence
is being destroyed gives rise to a compelling need for blood draws
in cases like this one. Here, in fact, there is not simply a belief
that any alcohol in the bloodstream will be destroyed; it is a
biological certainty. Alcohol dissipates from the bloodstream at a
rate of 0.01 percent to 0.025 percent per hour. Stripp, Forensic
and Clinical Issues in Alcohol Analysis, in Forensic Chemistry
Handbook 440 (L. Kobilinsky ed. 2012). Evidence is literally
disappearing by the minute. That certainty makes this case an even
stronger one than usual for application of the exigent
circumstances exception.

															And that evidence is important. A serious and
deadly crime is at issue. According to the Department of
Transportation, in 2011, one person died every 53 minutes due to
drinking and driving. National Highway Traffic Safety Admin.
(NHTSA), Traffic Safety Facts, 2011 Data 1 (No. 811700, Dec. 2012).
No surprise then that drinking and driving is punished severely,
including with jail time. See generally Dept. of Justice, Bureau of
Justice Statistics, L. Maruschak, Special Report, DWI Offenders
under Correctional Supervision (1999). McNeely, for instance, faces
up to four years in prison. See App. 22–23 (citing Mo. Ann.
Stat. §§558.011, 577.010, 577.023 (West 2011)).

															Evidence of a driver’s blood alcohol
concentration (BAC) is crucial to obtain convictions for such
crimes. All 50 States and the District of Columbia have laws
providing that it is per se illegal to drive with a BAC
of 0.08 percent or higher. Most States also have laws establishing
additional penalties for drivers who drive with a “high
BAC,” often defined as 0.15 percent or above. NHTSA, Digest
of Impaired Driving and Selected Beverage Control Laws, pp. vii,
x–xviii (No. 811673, Oct. 2012). BAC evidence clearly
matters. And when drivers refuse breathalyzers, as McNeely did
here, a blood draw becomes necessary to obtain that evidence.

															The need to prevent the imminent destruction of
BAC evidence is no less compelling because the incriminating
alcohol dissipates over a limited period of time, rather than all
at once. As noted, the concentration of alcohol can make a
difference not only between guilt and innocence, but between
different crimes and different degrees of punishment. The officer
is unlikely to know precisely when the suspect consumed alcohol or
how much; all he knows is that critical evidence is being steadily
lost. Fire can spread gradually, but that does not lessen the need
and right of the officers to respond immediately. See Tyler,
supra.

															McNeely contends that there is no compelling
need for a warrantless blood draw, because if there is some alcohol
left in the blood by the time a warrant is obtained, the State can
use math and science to work backwards and identify a
defendant’s BAC at the time he was driving. See Brief for
Respondent 44–46. But that’s not good enough. We have
indicated that exigent circumstances justify warrantless entry when
drugs are about to be flushed down the toilet. See, e.g.,
King, 563 U. S., at ___–___ (slip op., at
7–8). We have not said that, because there could well be drug
paraphernalia elsewhere in the home, or because a defendant’s
co-conspirator might testify to the amount of drugs involved, the
drugs themselves are not crucial and there is no compelling need
for warrantless entry.

															The same approach should govern here. There is a
compelling need to search because alcohol—the nearly
conclusive evidence of a serious crime—is dissipating from
the bloodstream. The need is no less compelling because the police
might be able to acquire second-best evidence some other
way.[1]

															B

															For exigent circumstances to justify a
warrantless search, however, there must also be “no time to
secure a warrant.” Tyler, 436 U. S., at 509; see
Schmerber, 384 U. S., at 771 (warrantless search legal
when “there was no time to seek out a magistrate and secure a
warrant”). In this respect, obtaining a blood sample from a
suspected drunk driver differs from other exigent circumstances
cases.

															Importantly, there is typically delay between
the moment a drunk driver is stopped and the time his blood can be
drawn. Drunk drivers often end up in an emergency room, but they
are not usually pulled over in front of one. In most exigent
circumstances situations, police are just outside the door to a
home. Inside, evidence is about to be destroyed, a person is about
to be injured, or a fire has broken out. Police can enter promptly
and must do so to respond effectively to the emergency. But when
police pull a person over on suspicion of drinking and driving,
they cannot test his blood right away.[2] There is a time-consuming obstacle to their search, in
the form of a trip to the hospital and perhaps a wait to see a
medical pro-fessional. In this case, for example, approximately 25
minutes elapsed between the time the police stopped McNeely and the
time his blood was drawn. App. 36, 38.

															As noted, the fact that alcohol dissipates
gradually from the bloodstream does not diminish the compelling
need for a search—critical evidence is still disappearing.
But the fact that the dissipation persists for some time means that
the police—although they may not be able to do anything about
it right away—may still be able to respond to the ongoing
destruction of evidence later on.

															There might, therefore, be time to obtain a
warrant in many cases. As the Court explains, police can often
request warrants rather quickly these days. At least 30 States
provide for electronic warrant applications. See ante, at
10–12, and n. 4. In many States, a police officer can
call a judge, convey the necessary information, and be authorized
to affix the judge’s signature to a warrant. See,
e.g., Ala. Rule Crim. Proc. 3.8(b) (2012–2013); Alaska
Stat. §12.35.015 (2012); Idaho Code §§19–4404,
19–4406 (Lexis 2004); Minn. Rules Crim. Proc.
36.01–36.08 (2010 and Supp. 2013); Mont. Code Ann.
§46–5–222 (2012); see generally NHTSA, Use of
Warrants for Breath Test Refusal: Case Studies 6–32 (No.
810852, Oct. 2007) (overview of procedures in Arizona, Michigan,
Oregon, and Utah). Utah has an e-warrant procedure where a police
officer enters information into a system, the system notifies a
prosecutor, and upon approval the officer forwards the information
to a magistrate, who can electronically re-turn a warrant to the
officer. Utah, e-Warrants: Cross Boundary Collaboration 1 (2008).
Judges have been known to issue warrants in as little as five
minutes. Bergreen, Faster Warrant System Hailed, Salt Lake Tribune,
Dec. 26, 2008, p. B1, col. 1. And in one county in Kansas, police
officers can e-mail warrant requests to judges’ iPads; judges
have signed such warrants and e-mailed them back to officers in
less than 15 minutes. Benefiel, DUI Search Warrants: Prosecuting
DUI Refusals, 9 Kansas Prosecutor 17, 18 (Spring 2012). The police
are presumably familiar with the mechanics and time involved in the
warrant process in their particular jurisdiction.

															III

															A

															In a case such as this, applying the exigent
circumstances exception to the general warrant requirement of the
Fourth Amendment seems straightforward: If there is time to secure
a warrant before blood can be drawn, the police must seek one. If
an officer could reasonably conclude that there is not sufficient
time to seek and receive a warrant, or he applies for one but does
not receive a response before blood can be drawn, a warrantless
blood draw may ensue. See Tyler, supra, at 509; see
also Illinois v. Rodriguez, 497
U.S. 177, 185–186 (1990) (“in order to satisfy the
‘reasonableness’ requirement of the Fourth Amendment,
what is generally demanded of the many factual determinations that
must regularly be made by . . . police officer[s]
conducting a search or seizure under one of the exceptions to the
warrant requirement . . . is not that they always be
correct, but that they always be reasonable”); Terry
v. Ohio, 392 U.S.
1, 20 (1968) (“police must, whenever practicable, obtain
advance judicial approval of searches and seizures through the
warrant procedure”).

															Requiring police to apply for a warrant if
practicable increases the likelihood that a neutral, detached
judicial officer will review the case, helping to ensure that there
is probable cause for any search and that any search is reasonable.
We have already held that forced blood draws can be
constitutional—that such searches can be reasonable—
but that does not change the fact that they are significant bodily
intrusions. See Schmerber, 384 U. S., at 770 (upholding
a warrantless forced blood draw but noting the “importance of
informed, detached and deliberate determinations of the issue
whether or not to invade another’s body in search of evidence
of guilt” as “indisputable and great”). Requiring
a warrant whenever practicable helps ensure that when blood draws
occur, they are indeed justified.

															At the same time, permitting the police to act
without a warrant to prevent the imminent destruction of evidence
is well established in Fourth Amendment law. There is no reason to
preclude application of that exception in drunk driving cases
simply because it may take the police some time to be able to
respond to the undoubted destruction of evidence, or because the
destruction occurs continuously over an uncertain period.

															And that is so even in situations where police
have requested a warrant but do not receive a timely response. An
officer who reasonably concluded there was no time to secure a
warrant may have blood drawn from a suspect upon arrival at a
medical facility. There is no reason an officer should be in a
worse position, simply because he sought a warrant prior to his
arrival at the hospital.

															B

															The Court resists the foregoing, contending
that the question presented somehow inhibits such a focused
analysis in this case. See ante, at 20–23. It does
not. The question presented is whether a warrantless blood draw is
permissible under the Fourth Amendment “based upon the
natural dissipation of alcohol in the bloodstream.” Pet. for
Cert. i. The majority answers “It depends,” and so do
I. The difference is that the majority offers no ad-ditional
guidance, merely instructing courts and police officers to consider
the totality of the circumstances. I believe more meaningful
guidance can be provided about how to handle the typical cases, and
nothing about the question presented prohibits affording that
guidance.

															A plurality of the Court also expresses concern
that my approach will discourage state and local efforts to
expedite the warrant application process. See ante, at 14.
That is not plausible: Police and prosecutors need warrants in a
wide variety of situations, and often need them quickly. They
certainly would not prefer a slower process, just because that
might obviate the need to ask for a warrant in the occasional drunk
driving case in which a blood draw is necessary. The
plurality’s suggestion also overlooks the interest of law
enforcement in the protection a warrant provides.

															The Court is correct when it says that every
case must be considered on its particular facts. But the pertinent
facts in drunk driving cases are often the same, and the police
should know how to act in recurring factual situations. Simply put,
when a drunk driving suspect fails field sobriety tests and refuses
a breathalyzer, whether a warrant is required for a blood draw
should come down to whether there is time to secure one.

															Schmerber itself provides support for
such an analysis. The Court there made much of the fact that
“there was no time to seek out a magistrate and secure a
warrant.” 384 U. S., at 771. It did so in an era when
cell phones and e-mail were unknown. It follows quite naturally
that if cell phones and e-mail mean that there is time to contact a
magistrate and secure a warrant, that must be done. At the same
time, there is no need to jettison the well-established exception
for the imminent destruction of evidence, when the officers are in
a position to do something about it.

															*  *  *

															Because the Missouri courts did not apply the
rule I describe above, and because this Court should not do so in
the first instance, I would vacate and remand for further
proceedings in the Missouri courts.

Notes
1
 And that second-best
evidence may prove useless. When experts have worked backwards to
identify a defendant’s BAC at the time he was driving,
defense attorneys have objected to that evidence, courts have at
times rejected it, and juries may be suspicious of it. See,
e.g., 1 D. Nichols & F. Whited, Drinking/Driving
Litigation §2:9, pp. 2–130 to 2–137 (2d ed. 2006)
(noting counsel objections to such evidence); State v.
Eighth Judicial District Court, 127 Nev. ___, 267 P.3d 777
(2011) (affirming rejection of such evidence); L. Taylor & S.
Oberman, Drunk Driving Defense §6.03 (7th ed. 2010)
(describing ways to undermine such evidence before a
jury).
2
 This case involves
medical personnel drawing blood at a medical facility, not police
officers doing so by the side of the road. See Schmerber v.
California, 384 U.S.
757, 771–772 (1966) (“Petitioner’s blood was
taken by a physician in a hospital environment according to
accepted medical practices. We are thus not presented with the
serious questions which would arise if a search involving use of a
medical technique, even of the most rudimentary sort, were made by
other than medical personnel or in other than a medical
environment—for example, if it were administered by police in
the privacy of the stationhouse”); Brief for Respondent 53,
and n. 21 (describing roadside blood draws in Arizona). A plurality
of the Court suggests that my approach could make roadside blood
draws a more attractive option for police, but such a procedure
would pose practical difficulties and, as the Court noted in
Schmerber, would raise additional and serious Fourth
Amendment concerns. See ante, at 14–15.


