::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-056
::decision_cite:: 569 U.S. 641 (2013)
::decision_name::  Am. Trucking Ass'ns., Inc. v. City of Los Angeles
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–798

															_________________

															AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS, INC.,
PETITIONER v. CITY OF LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 13, 2013]

															

															Justice Thomas, concurring.

															I join the Court’s opinion in full. I
write separately to highlight a constitutional concern regarding
§601 of the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act
of 1994 (FAAAA), 108Stat. 1606, a statute the Court has now
considered twice this Term. See Dan’s City Used Cars,
Inc. v. Pelkey, 569 U. S. ___ (2013).

															The Constitution grants Congress authority
“[t]o regulate Commerce . . . among the
several States.” Art. I, §8, cl. 3 (emphasis added).
Section 14501 of Title 49 is titled “Federal authority over
intrastate transportation.” (Emphasis added.) The
tension between §14501 and the Constitution is apparent,
because the Constitution does not give Congress power to regulate
intrastate commerce. United States v. Lopez,
514 U.S.
549, 587, n. 2 (1995) (Thomas, J., concurring). Nevertheless,
§14501(c)(1) purports to pre-empt any state or local law
“related to a price, route, or service of any motor carrier
. . . with respect to the transportation of
property.” By its terms, §14501(c) would pre-empt even a
city ordinance establishing a uniform rate for most transportation
services originating and ending inside city limits, so long as the
services were provided by a motor carrier. Such an extraordinary
assertion of congressional authority cannot be reconciled with our
constitutional system of enumerated powers.

															The Supremacy Clause provides the constitutional
basis for the pre-emption of state laws. Art. VI, cl. 2
(“This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which
shall be made in Pursuance thereof . . . shall be the
supreme Law of the Land”). Because the Constitution and
federal laws are supreme, conflicting state laws are without legal
effect. See Crosby v. National Foreign Trade Council,
530 U.S.
363, 372 (2000). However, the constitutional text leaves no
doubt that only federal laws made “in Pursuance” of the
Constitution are supreme. See Gregory v. Ashcroft,
501 U.S.
452, 460 (1991) (“As long as it is acting within the
powers granted it under the Constitution, Congress may impose
its will on the States” (emphasis added)); Wyeth v.
Levine, 555 U.S.
555, 583–587 (2009) (Thomas, J., concurring in
judgment).

															Given this limitation, Congress cannot pre-empt
a state law merely by promulgating a conflicting statute—the
pre-empting statute must also be constitutional, both on its face
and as applied. As relevant here, if Congress lacks authority to
enact a law regulating a particular intrastate activity, it follows
that Congress also lacks authority to pre-empt state laws
regulating that activity. See U. S. Const., Amdt. 10 (“The
powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor
prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States
respectively, or to the people”).

															In this case, the Court concludes that
“[s]ection 14501(c)(1) . . . preempts the placard
and parking provisions of the Port’s concession
agreement.” Ante, at 12. Although respondents waived
any argument that Congress lacks authority to regulate the placards
and parking arrangements of drayage trucks using the port, I doubt
that Congress has such authority. The Court has iden- tified three
categories of activity that Congress may regulate under the
Commerce Clause: (1) the use of the channels of interstate
commerce; (2) the instrumentalities of interstate commerce, and
persons or things in interstate commerce; and (3) “activities
having a substantial relation to interstate commerce
. . . i.e., those activities that substantially
affect interstate commerce.” Lopez, supra, at
558–559. Drayage trucks that carry cargo into and out of the
Port of Los Angeles undoubtedly operate within the “channels
of interstate commerce”—for that is what a port is.
Congress can therefore regulate conduct taking place within the
port. But it is doubtful whether Congress has the power to decide
where a drayage truck should park once it has left the port or what
kind of placard the truck should display while offsite. Even under
the “substantial effects” test, which I have rejected
as a “ ‘rootless and malleable standard’ at
odds with the constitutional design,” Gonzales v.
Raich, 545 U.S.
1, 67 (dissenting opinion) (quoting United States v.
Morrison, 529 U.S.
598, 627 (2000) (Thomas, J., concurring)), it is difficult to
say that placards and parking arrangements substantially af- fect
interstate commerce. Congress made no findings indicating that
offsite parking—conduct that falls within the scope of the
States’ traditional police powers—substantially affects
interstate commerce. And I doubt that it could. Nevertheless,
because respondents did not preserve a constitutional challenge to
the FAAAA and because I agree that the provisions in question have
the “force and effect of law,” I join the Court’s
opinion.

													
