::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-079
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 744 (2013)
::decision_name::  United States v. Windsor
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–307

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v. EDITH SCHLAIN
WINDSOR, in her capacity as executor of the ESTATE OF THEA CLARA
SPYER, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 26, 2013]

															

															     Chief Justice
Roberts, dissenting.

															     I agree with Justice
Scalia that this Court lacks jurisdiction to review the decisions
of the courts below. On the merits of the constitutional dispute
the Court decides to decide, I also agree with Justice Scalia that
Congress acted constitutionally in passing the Defense of Marriage
Act (DOMA). Interests in uniformity and stability am- ply justified
Congress’s decision to retain the definition of marriage
that, at that point, had been adopted by every State in our Nation,
and every nation in the world. Post, at 19–20 (dissenting
opinion).

															     The majority sees a
more sinister motive, pointing out that the Federal Government has
generally (though not uniformly) deferred to state definitions of
marriage in the past. That is true, of course, but none of those
prior state-by-state variations had involved differences over
something—as the majority puts it—“thought of by
most people as essential to the very definition of [marriage] and
to its role and function throughout the history of
civilization.” Ante, at 13. That the Federal Government
treated this fundamental question differently than it treated
variations over consanguinity or minimum age is hardly
surprising—and hardly enough to support a conclusion that the
“principal purpose,” ante, at 22, of the 342
Representa- tives and 85 Senators who voted for it, and the
President who signed it, was a bare desire to harm. Nor do the
snip- pets of legislative history and the banal title of the Act to
which the majority points suffice to make such a showing. At least
without some more convincing evidence that the Act’s
principal purpose was to codify malice, and that it furthered no
legitimate government interests, I would not tar the political
branches with the brush of bigotry.

															     But while I disagree
with the result to which the major- ity’s analysis leads it
in this case, I think it more important to point out that its
analysis leads no further. The Court does not have before it, and
the logic of its opinion does not decide, the distinct question
whether the States, in the exercise of their “historic and
essential authority to define the marital relation,” ante, at
18, may continue to utilize the traditional definition of
marriage.

															     The majority goes out
of its way to make this explicit in the penultimate sentence of its
opinion. It states that “[t]his opinion and its holding are
confined to those lawful marriages,” ante, at
26—referring to same-sex marriages that a State has already
recognized as a result of the local “community’s
considered perspective on the historical roots of the institution
of marriage and its evolving un- derstanding of the meaning of
equality.” Ante, at 20. Justice Scalia believes this is a
“ ‘bald, unreasoned
disclaime[r].’ ” Post, at 22. In my view, though,
the disclaimer is a logical and necessary consequence of the
argument the majority has chosen to adopt. The dominant theme of
the majority opinion is that the Federal Government’s
intrusion into an area “central to state domestic relations
law applicable to its residents and citizens” is sufficiently
“unusual” to set off alarm bells. Ante, at 17, 20. I
think the majority goes off course, as I have said, but it is
undeniable that its judgment is based on federalism.

															     The majority
extensively chronicles DOMA’s departure from the normal
allocation of responsibility between State and Federal Governments,
emphasizing that DOMA “rejects the long-established precept
that the incidents, benefits, and obligations of marriage are
uniform for all married couples within each State.” Ante, at
18. But there is no such departure when one State adopts or keeps a
definition of marriage that differs from that of its neighbor, for
it is entirely expected that state definitions would “vary,
subject to constitutional guarantees, from one State to the
next.” Ibid. Thus, while “[t]he State’s power in
defining the marital relation is of central relevance” to the
majority’s decision to strike down DOMA here, ibid., that
power will come into play on the other side of the board in future
cases about the constitutionality of state marriage definitions. So
too will the concerns for state diversity and sovereignty that
weigh against DOMA’s constitutionality in this case. See
ante, at 19.

															     It is not just this
central feature of the majority’s analysis that is unique to
DOMA, but many considerations on the periphery as well. For
example, the majority focuses on the legislative history and title
of this particular Act, ante, at 21; those statute-specific
considerations will, of course, be irrelevant in future cases about
different statutes. The majority emphasizes that DOMA was a
“system- wide enactment with no identified connection to any
particular area of federal law,” but a State’s
definition of marriage “is the foundation of the
State’s broader author- ity to regulate the subject of
domestic relations with respect to the ‘[p]rotection of
offspring, property interests, and the enforcement of marital
responsibilities.’ ” Ante, at 22, 17. And the
federal decision undermined (in the majority’s view) the
“dignity [already] conferred by the States in the exercise of
their sovereign power,” ante, at 21, whereas a State’s
decision whether to expand the definition of marriage from its
traditional contours involves no similar concern.

															     We may in the future
have to resolve challenges to state marriage definitions affecting
same-sex couples. That issue, however, is not before us in this
case, and we hold today that we lack jurisdiction to consider it in
the particular context of Hollingsworth v. Perry, ante, p. ___. I
write only to highlight the limits of the majority’s holding
and reasoning today, lest its opinion be taken to resolve not only
a question that I believe is not properly before
us—DOMA’s constitutionality—but also a question
that all agree, and the Court explicitly acknowledges, is not at
issue.

													
