::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-067
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 254 (2013)
::decision_name::  Descamps v. United States
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–9540

															_________________

															MATTHEW ROBERT DESCAMPS, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 20, 2013]

															

															     Justice Alito,
dissenting.

															     The Court holds, on
highly technical grounds, that no California burglary conviction
qualifies as a burglary conviction under the Armed Career Criminal
Act (ACCA), 18 U. S. C. §924(c). This is so,
according to the Court, because (1) burglary under California law
is broader than so-called “generic
burglary”—unlawfully entering or remaining in a
building with the intent to commit a crime; (2) the California
burglary statute is not “divisible”; and (3) our
“modified categorical approach” cannot be used in a
case involving an indivisible statute. Even when it is apparent
that a California burglary conviction was based on what everyone
imagines when the term “burglary” is
mentioned—e.g., breaking into a home to steal
valuables—that conviction, the Court holds, must be
ignored.

															     I would give ACCA a
more practical reading. When it is clear that a defendant
necessarily admitted or the jury necessarily found that the
defendant committed the elements of generic burglary, the
conviction should qualify. Petitioner’s burglary conviction
meets that requirement, and I would therefore affirm the decision
of the Court of Appeals.

															I

															     Before petitioner was
charged in the case now before us, he had already compiled a
criminal record that included convictions in Washington State for
assault and threatening to kill a judge, and convictions in
California for robbery and burglary. See App. 11a–12a; 466
Fed. Appx. 563, 565 (CA9 2012). After his release from custody for
these earlier crimes, petitioner fired a gun in the direction of a
man who supposedly owed him money for methamphetamine, and as a
result, he was charged in federal court with possession of a
firearm by a convicted felon, in violation of §922(g)(1). A
jury found him guilty, and the District Court imposed an enhanced
sentence under ACCA because he had the requisite number of previous
convictions for “a violent felony or a serious drug
offense.” §924(e). ACCA defines a “violent
felony” to include a “burglary” that is
“punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one
year,” §924(e)(2)(B), and both the District Court and
the Court of Appeals found that petitioner’s California
bur-glary conviction fit this definition.

															     While the concept of a
conviction for burglary might seem simple, things have not worked
out that way under our case law. In Taylor v. United States, 495
U. S. 575, 599 (1990) , we held that “burglary”
under ACCA means what we called “generic burglary,”
that is, the “unlawful or unprivileged entry into, or
remaining in, a building or structure, with intent to commit a
crime.” Determining whether a burglary conviction qualifies
under this definition is easy if the elements set out in the state
statute are the same as or narrower than the elements of generic
burglary, see ibid., but what if the state offense is broader? In
that event, we have held, a federal court may sometimes apply what
we have termed the “modified categorical approach,”
that is, it may examine some items in the state-court record,
including charging documents, jury instructions, and statements
made at guilty plea proceedings, to determine if the defendant was
actually found to have committed the elements of the generic
offense. See Shepard v. United States, 544 U. S. 13, 20 (2005)
; Taylor, supra, at 602.

															     Petitioner argues that
his 1978 conviction for burglary under California Penal Code
§459 does not qualify as a burglary conviction for ACCA
purposes because of the particular way in which this provision is
worded. Section 459 provides that a “person who enters”
certain locations “with intent to commit grand or petit
larceny or any felony is guilty of burglary.” Cal. Penal Code
Ann. §459 (West 2010). This provision is broader than generic
burglary in two respects.

															     The first, which does
not preclude application of the modified categorical approach,
concerns the place burglarized. While generic burglary applies only
to offenses involving the entry of a building, the California
provision also reaches offenses involving the entry of some other
locations, see ibid. Under our cases, however, a federal court
considering whether to apply ACCA may determine, based on an
examination of certain relevant documents, whether the conviction
was actually based on the entry of a building and, if it was, may
impose an increased sentence. See Johnson v. United States, 559
U. S. 133, 144 (2010) ; Nijhawan v. Holder, 557 U. S. 29,
35 (2009) ; Shepard, supra, at 26.

															     The second variation is
more consequential. Whereas generic burglary requires an entry that
is unlawful or unprivileged, the California statute refers without
qualification to “[e]very person who enters.”
§459. Petitioner argues, and the Court agrees, that this
discrepancy renders the modified categorical approach inapplicable
to his California burglary conviction.

															II

															     The Court holds that
“sentencing courts may not apply the modified categorical
approach when the crime of which the defendant was convicted has a
single, indivisible set of elements.” Ante, at 2. Because the
Court’s holding is based on the distinction between
“divisible” and “indivisible” statutes, it
is important to identify precisely what this taxonomy means.

															     My understanding is
that a statute is divisible, in the sense used by the Court, only
if the offense in question includes as separate elements all of the
elements of the generic offense. By an element, I understand the
Court to mean something on which a jury must agree by the vote
required to convict under the law of the applicable jurisdiction.
See ante, at 14 (citing Richardson v. United States, 526 U. S.
813, 817 (1999) ). And although the Court reserves decision on the
question whether a sentencing court may take authoritative judicial
decisions into account in identifying the elements of a statute,
see ante, at 20, I will assume that a sentencing court may do so.
While the elements of a criminal offense are generally set out in
the statutory text, courts sometimes find that unmentioned elements
are implicit. See, e.g., Neder v. United States, 527 U. S. 1,
20 (1999) (holding that federal mail fraud, wire fraud, and bank
fraud statutes require proof of materiality even though that
element is not mentioned in the statutory text). I cannot think of
any reason why an authoritative decision of this sort should be
ignored, and the Court has certainly not provided any. I therefore
proceed on the assumption that a statute is divisible if the
offense, as properly construed, has the requisite elements.

															     The Court’s
holding that the modified categorical approach may be used only
when a statute is divisible in this sense is not required by ACCA
or by our prior cases and will cause serious practical
problems.

															A

															     Nothing in the text
of ACCA mandates the Court’s exclusive focus on the elements
of an offense. ACCA increases the sentence of a defendant who has
“three previous convictions . . . for a violent
felony,” 18 U. S. C. §924(e)(1) (emphasis
added), and the Court claims that the word
“convictions” mandates a narrow, elements-based
inquiry, see ante, at 12. But “[i]n ordinary speech, when it
is said that a person was convicted of or for doing something, the
‘something’ may include facts that go beyond the bare
elements of the relevant criminal offense.” Moncrieffe v.
Holder, 569 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (Alito, J., dissenting)
(slip op., at 10–11).

															     Nor is an exclusively
elements-based inquiry mandated by ACCA’s definition of a
“violent felony” as “any crime . . .
that . . . is burglary,” §924(e)(2)(B)(ii). In
drafting that provision, Congress did not say “any crime that
has the elements of burglary.” Indeed, the fact that Congress
referred to “elements” elsewhere in the same
subparagraph, see §924(e)(2)(B)(i) (defining “violent
felony” to mean any crime that “has as an element the
use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the
person of another” (emphasis added)), but omitted any
reference to elements from §924(e)(2)(B)(ii) suggests, if
anything, that it did not intend to focus exclusively on elements.
Cf. Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories, Ltd. v. Novo Nordisk A/S,
566 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 14–15).

															B

															     The Court says that our
precedents require an elements-based approach and accuses the Court
of Appeals of “flout[ing] our reasoning” in Taylor,
Shepard, Nijhawan, and Johnson, see ante, at 5–8, 14, but
that charge is unfounded. In at least three of those cases, the
Court thought that the modified categorical approach could be used
in relation to statutes that may not have been divisible.

															     Shepard concerned prior
convictions under two Massachusetts burglary statutes that applied
not only to the entry of a “building” (as is the case
with generic burglary) but also to the entry of a “ship,
vessel, or vehicle.” Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., ch. 266, §16
(West 2000). See also §18; 544 U. S., at 17. And the
Shepard Court did not think that this feature of the Massachusetts
statutes precluded the application of the modified categorical
approach. See id., at 25–26; ante, at 6–7. See also
Nijhawan, 557 U. S., at 35 (discussing Shepard).

															     In today’s
decision, the Court assumes that “building” and the
other locations enumerated in the Massachusetts statutes, such as
“vessel,” were alternative elements, but that is
questionable. It is quite likely that the entry of a building and
the entry of a vessel were simply alternative means of satisfying
an element. See Commonwealth v. Cabrera, 449 Mass. 825, 827, 874
N. E. 2d 654, 657 (2007) (“The elements of breaking and
entering in the nighttime with intent to commit a felony are (1)
breaking and (2) entering a building, ship, vessel or vehicle
belonging to another (3) at night, (4) with the intent to commit a
felony”). “[L]egislatures frequently enumerate
alternative means of committing a crime without intending to define
separate elements or separate crimes.” Schad v. Arizona, 501
U. S. 624, 636 (1991) (plurality). The feature that
distinguishes elements and means is the need for juror agreement,
see Richardson, supra, at 817, and therefore in determining whether
the entry of a building and the entry of a vessel are elements or
means, the critical question is whether a jury would have to agree
on the nature of the place that a defendant entered.

															     A case that we decided
earlier this Term illustrates why “building” and
“vessel” may have been means and not separate elements.
In Lozman v. Riviera Beach, 568 U. S. ___ (2013), we were
required to determine whether a “floating home” (a
buoyant but not very sea-worthy dwelling) was a
“vessel.” Seven of us thought it was not; two of us
thought it might be. Compare id., at ___ (slip op. at 1), with id.,
at ___ (slip op., at 12). (Sotomayor, J., dissenting). Suppose that
a defendant in Massachusetts was charged with breaking into a
structure like the Lozman floating home. In order to convict, would
it be necessary for the jury to agree whether this structure was a
“building” or a “vessel”? If some jurors
insisted it was a building and others were convinced it was a
vessel, would the jury be hung? The Court’s answer is
“yes.” According to the Court, if a defendant had been
charged with burglarizing the Lozman floating home and this Court
had been sitting as the jury, the defendant would have escaped
conviction for burglary, no matter how strong the evidence, because
the “jury” could not agree on whether he burglarized a
building or a vessel.

															     I have not found a
Massachusetts decision squarely on point, but there is surely an
argument that the Massachusetts Legislature did not want to demand
juror agreement on this question. In other words, there is a strong
argument that entry of a “building” and entry of a
“vessel” are merely alternative means, not alternative
elements. And if that is so, the reasoning in Shepard undermines
the Court’s argument that the modified categorical approach
focuses solely on elements and not on conduct.

															     Johnson, like Shepard,
involved a statute that may have set out alternative means, rather
than alternative elements. Under the Florida statute involved in
that case, a battery occurs when a person either “1.
[a]ctually and intentionally touches or strikes another person
against the will of the other; or 2. [i]ntentionally causes bodily
harm to another person.” Fla. Stat. §784.03(1)(a)
(2010). It is a distinct possibility (one not foreclosed by any
Florida decision of which I am aware) that a conviction under this
provision does not require juror agreement as to whether a
defendant firmly touched or lightly struck the victim.
Nevertheless, in Johnson, we had no difficulty concluding that the
modified categorical approach could be applied. [ 1 ] See 559 U. S., at 137. [ 2 ]

															     Far from mandating the
Court’s approach, these decisions support a practical
understanding of the modified categorical approach. Thus, in
Shepard, we observed that the factual circumstances of a
defendant’s prior conviction may be relevant to determining
whether it qualifies as a violent felony under ACCA. See 544
U. S., at 20–21 (“With such material in a pleaded
case, a later court could generally tell whether the plea had
‘necessarily’ rested on the fact identifying the
burglary as generic, just as the details of instructions could
support that conclusion in the jury case, or the details of a
generically limited charging document would do in any sort of
case” (emphasis added; citation omitted)); id., at 24
(plurality opinion) (“Developments in the law since Taylor
. . . provide a further reason to adhere to the demanding
requirement that . . . a prior conviction
‘necessarily’ involved (and a prior plea necessarily
admitted) facts equating to generic burglary” (emphasis
added)); id., at 25 (noting that, in the context of a nongeneric
burglary statute, unless the charging documents “narro[w] the
charge to generic limits, the only certainty of a generic finding
lies in jury instructions, or bench-trial findings and rulings, or
(in a pleaded case) in the defendant’s own admissions or
accepted findings of fact confirming the factual basis for a valid
plea” (emphasis added)). And in Nijhawan, we departed from
the categorical approach altogether and instead applied a
“circumstance-specific” approach. See 557 U. S.,
at 36, 38. If anything, then, Nijhawan undermines the
major-ity’s position that rigid adherence to elements is
always required.

															C

															     The Court fears that
application of the modified categorical approach to statutes such
as §459 would be unfair to defendants, who “often ha[ve]
little incentive to contest facts that are not elements of the
charged offense” and “may not wish to irk the
prosecutor or court by squabbling about superfluous factual
allegations.” Ante, at 15. This argument attributes to
criminal defendants and their attorneys a degree of timidity that
may not be realistic. But in any event, even if a defendant does
not think it worthwhile to “squabbl[e]” about
insignificant factual allegations, a defendant clearly has an
incentive to dispute allegations that may have a bearing on his
sentence. And that will often be the case when alternative elements
or means suggest different degrees of culpability. Cf. Cal. Penal
Code Ann. §460 (providing that burglary of certain inhabited
locations enumerated in §459 is punishable in the first
degree, and that burglary of all other locations is punishable in
the second degree).

															D

															     The Court’s
approach, I must concede, does have one benefit: It provides an
extra measure of assurance that a burglary conviction will not be
counted as an ACCA predicate unless the defendant, if he went to
trial, was actually found by a jury to have committed the elements
of the generic offense. But this extra bit of assurance will
generally be quite modest at best.

															     To see why this is so,
compare what would happen under an indivisible burglary statute
that simply requires entry invading a possessory right, and a
divisible statute that has the following two alternative elements:
(1) entry by trespass and (2) entry by invitation but with an
undisclosed criminal intent. Under the former statute, the jury
would be required to agree only that the defendant invaded a
possessory right when entering the place in question, and therefore
it would be possible for the jury to convict even if some jurors
thought that the defendant entered by trespassing while others
thought that he entered by invitation but with an undisclosed
criminal intent. Under the latter statute, by contrast, the jury
would have to agree either that he trespassed or that he entered by
invitation but with an undisclosed criminal intent.

															     This requirement of
unanimity would be of some practical value only if the evidence in
a case pointed to both possibilities, and in a great many cases
that will not be so. In cases prosecuted under the California
burglary statute, I suspect, the evidence generally points either
to a trespassory entry, typically involving breaking into a
building or other covered place, or to an entry by invitation but
with an undisclosed criminal intent (in many cases, shoplifting).
Cases in which the evidence suggests that the defendant might have
done either are probably not common. And in cases where there is
evidence supporting both theories, the presence of a divisible
statute containing alternative elements will not solve the problem:
A guilty verdict will not reveal the alternative on which the jury
agreed unless the jury was asked to return a special verdict,
something that is not generally favored in criminal cases. See 6
LaFave §24.10(a), at 543–544.

															     In cases that end with
a guilty plea—and most do—the benefit of divisibility
is even less. A judge who accepts a guilty plea is typically
required to confirm that there is a factual basis for the plea, see
5 id., §21.4(f), at 835–840 (3d ed. 2007 and Supp.
2011–2012), and the proffer of a factual basis will generally
focus exclusively on one of the alternative elements.

															     The Court nevertheless
suggests that the extra modicum of assurance provided in cases
involving divisible statutes is needed to prevent violations of the
Sixth Amendment jury trial right, ante, at 13–15, but I
disagree. So long as a judge applying ACCA is determining, not what
the defendant did when the burglary in question was committed, but
what the jury in that case necessarily found or what the defendant,
in pleading guilty, necessarily admitted, the jury trial right is
not infringed. See Almendarez-Torres v. United States, 523 U. S.
224 (1998) . When the modified categorical approach is used to
decide whether “a jury was actually required to find all the
elements of [a] generic [offense],” the defendant has already
enjoyed his Sixth Amendment right to a jury determination of those
elements. Taylor, 495 U. S., at 602.

															III

															     While producing very
modest benefits at most, the Court’s holding will create
several serious problems.

															A

															     Determining whether a
statute is divisible will often be harder than the Court
acknowledges. What I have said about the statutes involved in
Shepard and Johnson illustrates this point. The Court assumes that
those statutes were divisible, but as I have explained, it is
possible that they were not. See supra, at 5–7.

															     To determine whether a
statute contains alternative elements, as opposed to merely
alternative means of satisfying an element, a court called upon to
apply ACCA will be required to look beyond the text of the statute,
which may be deceptive. Take, for example, Michigan Compiled Laws
Annotated §750.82(1) (West 2004), which criminal-izes assault
with “a gun, revolver, pistol, knife, iron bar, club, brass
knuckles, or other dangerous weapon.” The Court seems to
assume that a statute like this enumerates alternative elements,
ante, at 17–18, but the Michigan courts have held otherwise.
Under Michigan law, the elements of §750.82(1) are “(1)
an assault, (2) with a dangerous weapon, and (3) with the intent to
injure or place the victim in reasonable apprehension of an
immediate battery.” People v. Avant, 235 Mich. App. 499, 505,
597 N. W. 2d 864, 869 (1999). Although the statute lists
numerous types of weapons, the particular type of weapon is not
itself an element that the prosecution must prove beyond a
reasonable doubt. Instead, the list of weapons in the statute
merely enumerates alternative means of committing the crime. [
3 ]

															     Even if a federal court
applying ACCA discovers a state-court decision holding that a
particular fact must be alleged in a charging document, its
research is not at an end. Charging documents must generally
include factual allegations that go beyond the bare elements of the
crime—specifically, at least enough detail to permit the
defendant to mount a defense. See 5 LaFave §19.3(b), at 276.
And some jurisdictions require fairly specific factual allegations.
See, e.g., N. Y. Crim. Proc. Law Ann. §200.50 (West 2007)
(enumerating detailed requirements for indictment); People v.
Swanson, 308 Ill. App. 3d 708, 712, 721 N. E. 2d 630, 633
(1999) (vacating conviction for disorderly conduct for submitting a
false police report because information “d[id] not describe
with particularity the time, date, or location of the alleged
domestic battery and the acts comprising the battery
. . . [or] the statement that was falsely
reported”); Edwards v. State, 379 So. 2d 336, 338 (Ala.
Crim. App. 1979) (it is insufficient for an indictment for robbery
to allege the amount of money taken; it “must aver the
denomination of the money taken or that the particular denomination
is unknown to the grand jury”). Thus, the mere fact that
state law requires a particular fact to be alleged in a charging
document does not mean that this fact must be found by a jury or
admitted by the defendant.

															     The only way to be sure
whether particular items are alternative elements or simply
alternative means of satisfying an element may be to find cases
concerning the correctness of jury instructions that treat the
items one way or the other. And such cases may not arise
frequently. One of the Court’s reasons for adopting the
modified categorical approach was to simplify the work of ACCA
courts, see Shepard, 544 U. S., at 20; Taylor, 495 U. S.,
at 601, but the Court’s holding today will not serve that
end.

															B

															     The Court’s
holding will also frustrate fundamental ACCA objectives. We have
repeatedly recognized that Congress enacted ACCA to ensure (1) that
violent, dangerous recidivists would be subject to enhanced
penalties and (2) that those enhanced penalties would be applied
uniformly, regardless of state-law variations. See, e.g., id., at
587–589. See also id., at 582 (“ ‘[I]n terms
of fundamental fairness, the Act should ensure, to the extent that
it is consistent with the prerogatives of the States in defining
their own offenses, that the same type of conduct is punishable on
the Federal level in all cases’ ” (quoting S. Rep.
No. 98–190, p. 20 (1983)); 495 U. S., at 591 (rejecting
disparate results across states based on label given by State to a
particular crime).

															     The Court’s
holding will hamper the achievement of these objectives by
artificially limiting ACCA’s reach and treating similar
convictions differently based solely on the vagaries of state law.
Defendants convicted of the elements of generic burglary in
California will not be subject to ACCA, but defendants who engage
in exactly the same behavior in, say, Virginia, will fall within
ACCA’s reach. See Va. Code Ann. §18.2–90 (Lexis
2009).

															     I would avoid these
problems by applying the modified categorical approach to
§459—and any other similar burglary statute from another
State—and would ask whether the relevant portions of the
state record clearly show that the jury necessarily found, or the
defendant necessarily admitted, the elements of generic burglary.
If the state-court record is inconclusive, then the conviction
should not count. But where the record is clear, I see no reason
for granting a special dispensation.

															IV

															     When the modified
categorical approach is applied to petitioner’s conviction,
it is clear that he “necessarily admitted”—and
therefore was convicted for committing—the elements of
generic burglary: the unlawful or unprivileged entry of a building
with the intent to commit a crime.

															     Both the complaint and
information alleged that petitioner “unlawfully and
feloniously enter[ed]” a building (the
“CentroMart”) “with the intent to commit theft
therein.” App. 14a–17a. When the trial court inquired
into the factual basis for petitioner’s plea, the prosecutor
stated that petitioner’s crime involved “the breaking
and entering of a grocery store.” Id., at 25a. Neither
petitioner nor his attorney voiced any objection. [ 4 ] Ibid. In order to accept
petitioner’s plea, the trial court was required under
California law to ensure that the plea had a factual basis, see
Cal. Penal Code Ann. §1192.5 (1978); App. 26a, and we must
presume that the plea proceedings were conducted in a regular
manner, see Parke v. Raley, 506 U. S. 20 –30 (1992). The
unmistakable inference arising from the plea transcript is that the
trial judge—quite reasonably—understood petitioner and
his attorney to assent to the factual basis provided by the
prosecutor. Both the District Court and the Court of Appeals
concluded that petitioner had admitted and, as a practical matter,
was convicted for having committed the elements of generic
burglary, and we did not agree to review that fact-bound
determination, see 567 U. S. ___ (2012) (granting certiorari
“limited to Question 1 presented by the petition”).

															     Even if that
determination is reviewed, however, the lower courts’
conclusion should be sustained. Under the California burglary
statute, as interpreted by the State Supreme Court, a defendant
must either (a) commit a trespass in entering the location in
question or (b) enter in violation of some other possessory right.
See People v. Gauze, 15 Cal. 3d 709, 713–714, 542 P. 2d 1365,
1367 (1975). [ 5 ]

															     In this case, the judge
who accepted petitioner’s guilty plea must have relied on
petitioner’s implicit admission that he “broke”
into the store, for if petitioner had admitted only that he entered
the store, the judge would not have been able to assess whether he
had invaded a possessory right. Nor would an admission to merely
“entering” the store have permitted the judge to assess
whether petitioner entered with the intent to commit a crime;
petitioner’s admission to “breaking” was
therefore critical to that element, as well. Cf. Black’s Law
Dictionary 236 (rev. 4th ed. 1968) (“Breaking” denotes
the “tearing away or removal of any part of a house or of the
locks, latches, or other fastenings intended to secure it, or
otherwise exerting force to gain an entrance, with the intent to
commit a felony”).

															     We have explained that
burglary under §924(e) means “an unlawful or
unprivileged entry into, or remaining in, a building or other
structure, with intent to commit a crime.” Taylor, 495
U. S., at 598. Based on petitioner’s guilty plea and the
Shepard documents, it is clear that petitioner necessarily admitted
the elements of generic burglary. He unlawfully entered a building
with the intent to commit a crime. Accordingly, I would hold that
petitioner’s conviction under §459 qualifies as a
conviction for “burglary” under §924(e).

															     For these reasons, I
would affirm the decision of the Court of Appeals, and I therefore
respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 However, because the
Shepard documents did not reveal whether Johnson had been found to
have touched or struck, we had to determine whether the relatively
innocuous phrase—“[a]ctually and intentionally
touch[ing]” another person—constituted physical force
for purposes of §924(e)(2)(B)(i). See Johnson, 559 U. S.,
at 137.
2
 The remaining case,
Taylor v. United States, , may also have involved a statute that
was not divisible, but the situation is less clear. There, the
defendant had several Missouri burglary convictions, and Missouri
had several different burglary provisions in effect at the time in
question. See id., at 578, n. 1. The particular provision
involved in each of those cases was not certain. Ibid. At least one
of those provisions, however, may not have been divisible. That
provision, Mo. Rev. Stat. §560.070 (1969) (repealed), applied
not only to buildings but also to “any booth or tent,”
“any boat or vessel,” or a “railroad car.”
It is not entirely clear whether a Missouri court would have
required jurors to agree on a particular choice from this list. In
State v. Vandergriff, 403 S. W. 2d 579, 581 (Mo. 1966), the
Missouri Supreme Court held that an information was deficient
because it “omitted a description of the type of building
that might be burglarized as defined by §560.070, and thereby
omitted an essential element of the offense of burglary in the
second degree.” Because an information must generally include
factual details that go beyond the elements of an offense, see 5 W.
LaFave, J. Israel, N. King, & O. Kerr, Criminal Procedure
§19.3(b), p. 276 (3d ed. 2007) (hereinafter LaFave), it is
possible that the Missouri court did not mean to say that the type
of building was an element in the sense in which I understand the
Court to use the term here.
3
 The board game Clue, to
which the Court refers, see ante, at 18,does not provide sound
legal guidance. In that game, it matters whether Colonel Mustard
bashed in the victim’s head with a candlestick, wrench, or
lead pipe. But in real life, the colonel would almost certainly not
escape conviction simply because the jury was unable to agree on
the particular type of blunt instrument that he used to commit the
murder.
4
 The Ninth Circuit has
held that a court applying the modified categorical approach may
rely on a prosecutor’s statement as to the factual basis for
a guilty plea when that statement is offered on the record in the
defendant’s presence and the defendant does not object.
United States v. Hernandez-Hernandez, 431 F. 3d 1212, 1219
(2005). Petitioner has not challenged the Ninth Circuit’s
rule, and that issue is notwithin the scope of the question on
which we granted certiorari. Accordingly, I would apply it for
purposes of this case.
5
 The majority suggests
that California law is ambiguous as to this requirement, see ante,
at 20, n. 5, but any confusion appears to have arisen after
petitioner’s 1978 conviction and is therefore irrelevant for
purposes of this case. Cf. McNeill v. United States, 563 U. S.
___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 3) (“The only way to answer
[ACCA’s] backward-looking question [whether a previous
conviction was for a seriousdrug offense] is to consult the law
that applied at the time of that conviction”).


