::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-071
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 387 (2013)
::decision_name::  United States v. Kebodeaux
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–418

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v. ANTHONY JAMES
KEBODEAUX

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[June 24, 2013]

															

															     Chief Justice
Roberts, concurring in the judgment.

															     I agree with the Court
that Congress had the power, under the Military Regulation and
Necessary and Proper Clauses of Article I, to require Anthony
Kebodeaux to register as a sex offender. The majority, having
established that premise and thus resolved the case before us,
nevertheless goes on to discuss the general public safety benefits
of the registration requirement. Ante, at 8–10. Because that
analysis is beside the point in this case, I con- cur in the
judgment only.

															     While serving in the
Air Force, Kebodeaux violated the Uniform Code of Military Justice
by having sexual relations with a minor. A special court-martial
convicted him. As relevant here, that conviction had two
consequences: First, Kebodeaux was sentenced to confinement for
three months. And second, as the majority describes, he was
required to register as a sex offender with the State in which he
resided and keep that registration current; failure to do so would
subject him to federal criminal penalties. Ante, at 4–6.

															     In the same way that
Congress undoubtedly had the au- thority to impose the first
consequence for a violation of military rules, it also had the
authority to impose the second. The Constitution gives Congress the
power “[t]o make Rules for the Government and Regulation of
the land and naval Forces.” Art. I, §8,
cl. 14. And, under the Necessary and Proper Clause, Congress
can give those rules force by imposing consequences on members of
the military who disobey them. See McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat.
316, 416 (1819) (“All admit that the government may,
legitimately, punish any violation of its laws; and yet, this is
not among the enumerated powers of Congress.”). A
servicemember will be less likely to violate a relevant military
regulation if he knows that, having done so, he will be required to
register as a sex offender years into the future.

															     It is this power, the
power to regulate the conduct of members of the military by
imposing consequences for their violations of military law, that
supports application of the federal registration obligation to
Kebodeaux. As the Court explains, the Wetterling Act was in force
when Kebodeaux committed the original offense, and applied to him
as soon as the special court-martial rendered its verdict. See
ante, at 5–6. Congress later, in enacting the Sex Offender
Registration and Notification Act (SORNA), modified the
registration regime in place under the Wetterling Act. But as
applied to Kebodeaux here (the relevant inquiry in this as-applied
challenge), those changes were insignificant; their only effect was
that Kebodeaux received a day more than he could have received for
the same conduct had the Wetterling Act remained in force. See
ante, at 11 (describing SORNA’s effect on Kebodeaux’s
registration obligations); compare post, at 10, n. 3 (Thomas,
J., dissenting) (discussing changes that did not affect Kebodeaux).
Whatever other constitutional concerns might attach to such a
change, as a question of Article I power it was permissible. Just
as the Federal Government may, under the Necessary and Proper
Clause, alter the conditions of a federal prisoner’s
confinement or adjust the timing and location of drug tests
required of a federal convict, so too could it make slight
modifications to a previously imposed registration obligation.

															     The majority says, more
or less, the same thing. Ante, at 8, 11–12. But sandwiched
between its discussion of the basis for Congress’s power and
its discussion of the inconsequential nature of the changes is a
discussion of benefits from the registration system. Along with
giving force to military regulations, the majority notes, Congress
could also have “reasonably conclude[d] that registration
requirements . . . help protect the public from
. . . federal sex offenders and alleviate public safety
concerns.” Ante, at 8.

															     Maybe so, but those
consequences of the registration requirement are irrelevant for our
purposes. Public safety benefits are neither necessary nor
sufficient to a proper exercise of the power to regulate the
military. What matters—all that matters—is that
Congress could have rationally determined that “mak[ing] the
civil registration requirement at issue here a consequence of
Kebodeaux’s offense” would give force to the Uniform
Code of Military Justice adopted pursuant to Congress’s power
to regulate the Armed Forces. Ibid.

															     Ordinarily such
surplusage might not warrant a separate writing. Here, however, I
worry that incautious readers will think they have found in the
majority opinion something they would not find in either the
Constitution or any prior decision of ours: a federal police power.
The danger of such confusion is heightened by the fact the
Solicitor General adopted something very close to the police power
argument, contending that “the federal government has greater
ties to former federal sex offenders than it does to other members
of the general public,” and can therefore impose restrictions
on them even years after their unconditional release simply to
“serve[ ] . . . public-protection purposes.”
Brief for United States 34–35.

															     I write separately to
stress not only that a federal police power is immaterial to the
result in this case, but also that such a power could not be
material to the result in this case—because it does not
exist. See United States v. Morrison, 529 U. S. 598 –619
(2000) (“ ‘[W]e always have rejected readings of
. . . the scope of federal power that would permit
Congress to exercise a police power’ ” (quoting
United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S. 549 –585 (1995)
(Thomas, J., concurring))).

															     Our resistance to
congressional assertions of such a power has deep roots. From the
first, we have recognized that “the powers of the government
are limited, and that its limits are not to be transcended.”
McCulloch, 4 Wheat., at 420–421. Thus, while the Necessary
and Proper Clause authorizes congressional action “incidental
to [an enumerated] power, and conducive to its beneficial
exercise,” Chief Justice Marshall was emphatic that no
“great substantive and independent power” can be
“implied as incidental to other powers, or used as a means of
executing them.” Id., at 418, 411; see also Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, 195 (1824) (“The enumeration presupposes
something not enumerated”).

															     It is difficult to
imagine a clearer example of such a “great substantive and
independent power” than the power to “help protect the
public . . . and alleviate pub- lic safety
concerns,” ante, at 8. I find it implausible to
suppose—and impossible to support—that the Framers in-
tended to confer such authority by implication rather than
expression. A power of that magnitude vested in the Federal
Government is not “consist[ent] with the letter and spirit of
the constitution,” McCulloch, supra, at 421, and thus not a
“proper [means] for carrying into Execution” the
enumerated powers of the Federal Government, U. S. Const.,
Art. I, §8, cl. 18. See United States v. Comstock, 560
U. S. 126, 153 (2010) (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment)
(“It is of fundamental importance to consider whether
essential attributes of state sovereignty are compromised by the
assertion of federal power under the Necessary and Proper
Clause”).

															     It makes no difference
that the Federal Government would be policing people previously
convicted of a federal crime—even a federal sex crime. The
fact of a prior fed- eral conviction, by itself, does not give
Congress a freestand- ing, independent, and perpetual interest in
protecting the public from the convict’s purely intrastate
conduct.

															     But as I have said, I
do not understand the majority’s opinion to be based on such
a power. The connection to the Military Regulation Clause on which
the majority relies, ante, at 8, is less attenuated, and the power
it produces less substantial, than would be true of a federal
police power over prior federal offenders; the power to threaten
and impose particular obligations as a result of a violation of
military law is not such a “great substantive and independent
power” that the Framers’ failure to enumerate it must
imply its absence.

															     Nevertheless, I fear
that the majority’s discussion of the public-safety benefits
of the registration requirement will be mistaken for an endorsement
of the Solicitor General’s public-safety basis for the law. I
accordingly concur in the judgment only.

													
