::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-064
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 1 (2013)
::decision_name::  Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Ariz., Inc.
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–71

															_________________

															ARIZONA, et al., PETITIONERS v. THE INTER
TRIBAL COUNCIL OF ARIZONA, INC., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 17, 2013]

															

															     Justice Alito,
dissenting.

															     The Court reads an
ambiguous federal statute in a way that brushes aside the
constitutional authority of the States and produces truly strange
results.

															     Under the Constitution,
the States, not Congress, have the authority to establish the
qualifications of voters in elections for Members of Congress. See
Art. I, §2, cl. 1 (House); Amdt. 17 (Senate). The States also
have the default authority to regulate federal voter registration.
See Art. I, §4, cl. 1. Exercising its right to set federal
voter qualifications, Arizona, like every other State, permits only
U. S. citizens to vote in federal elections, and Arizona has
concluded that this requirement cannot be effectively enforced
unless applicants for registration are required to provide proof of
citizenship. According to the Court, however, the National Voter
Registration Act of 1993 (NVRA) deprives Arizona of this authority.
I do not think that this is what Congress intended.

															     I also doubt that
Congress meant for the success of an application for voter
registration to depend on which of two valid but substantially
different registration forms the applicant happens to fill out and
submit, but that is how the Court reads the NVRA. The Court
interprets one provision, 42 U. S. C.
§1973gg–6(a)(1)(B), to mean that, if an applicant fills
out the federal form, a State must register the applicant without
requiring proof of citizenship. But the Court does not question
Arizona’s authority under another provision of the NVRA,
§1973gg–4(a)(2), to create its own application form that
demands proof of citizen- ship; nor does the Court dispute
Arizona’s right to refuse to register an applicant who
submits that form without the requisite proof. I find it very hard
to believe that this is what Congress had in mind.

															     These results are not
required by the NVRA. Proper respect for the constitutional
authority of the States demands a clear indication of a
congressional intent to pre-empt state laws enforcing voter
qualifications. And while the relevant provisions of the Act are
hardly models of clarity, their best reading is that the States
need not treat the federal form as a complete voter registration
application.

															I

															A

															     In light of the
States’ authority under the Elections Clause of the
Constitution, Art. I, §4, cl. 1, I would begin by
applying a presumption against pre-emption of the Arizona law
requiring voter registration applicants to submit proof of
citizenship. Under the Elections Clause, the States have the
authority to specify the times, places, and manner of federal
elections except to the extent that Congress chooses to provide
otherwise. And in recognition of this allocation of authority, it
is appropriate to presume that the States retain this authority
unless Congress has clearly manifested a contrary intent. The Court
states that “[w]e have never mentioned [the presumption
against pre-emption] in our Elections Clause cases,” ante, at
10, but in United States v. Gradwell, 243 U. S. 476 (1917) ,
we read a federal statute narrowly out of deference to the
States’ traditional authority in this area. In doing so, we
explained that “the policy of Congress for [a] great
. . . part of our constitutional life has been
. . . to leave the conduct of the election of its members
to state laws, administered by state officers, and that whenever it
has assumed to regulate such elections it has done so by positive
and clear statutes.” Id., at 485 (emphasis added). [ 1 ] The presumption against pre-emption
applies with full force when Congress legislates in a “field
which the States have traditionally occupied,” Rice v.
Santa Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U. S. 218, 230 (1947) , and
the NVRA was the first significant federal regulation of voter
registration enacted under the Elections Clause since
Reconstruction.

															     The Court has it
exactly backwards when it declines to apply the presumption against
pre-emption because “the federalism concerns underlying the
presumption in the Su- premacy Clause context are somewhat
weaker” in an Elections Clause case like this one. Ante, at
12. To the contrary, Arizona has a “ ‘compelling
interest in preserving the integrity of its election
process’ ” that the Constitution recognizes and
that the Court’s reading of the Act seri- ously undermines.
Purcell v. Gonzalez, 549 U. S. 1, 4 (2006) (per curiam)
(quoting Eu v. San Francisco County Democratic Central Comm., 489
U. S. 214, 231 (1989) ).

															     By reserving to the
States default responsibility for administering federal elections,
the Elections Clause protects several critical values that the
Court disregards. First, as Madison explained in defense of the
Elections Clause at the Virginia Convention, “[i]t was found
necessary to leave the regulation of [federal elections], in the
first place, to the state governments, as being best acquainted
with the situation of the people.” 3 Records of the Federal
Convention of 1787, p. 312 (M. Farrand ed. 1911). Because the
States are closer to the people, the Framers thought that state
regulation of federal elections would “in ordinary cases
. . . be both more convenient and more
satisfactory.” The Federalist No. 59, p. 360 (C. Rossiter ed.
1961) (A. Hamilton).

															     Second, as we have
previously observed, the integrity of federal elections is a
subject over which the States and the Federal Government “are
mutually concerned.” Ex parte Siebold, 100 U. S.
371, 391 (1880) . By giving States a role in the administration of
federal elections, the Elections Clause reflects the States’
interest in the selection of the individuals on whom they must rely
to represent their interests in the National Legislature. See U. S.
Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton, 514 U. S. 779 –859 (1995)
(Thomas, J., dissenting).

															     Third, the Elections
Clause’s default rule helps to protect the States’
authority to regulate state and local elections. As a practical
matter, it would be very burdensome for a State to maintain
separate federal and state registration processes with separate
federal and state voter rolls. For that reason, any federal
regulation in this area is likely to displace not only state
control of federal elections but also state control of state and
local elections.

															     Needless to say, when
Congress believes that some overriding national interest justifies
federal regulation, it has the power to “make or alter”
state laws specifying the “Times, Places and Manner” of
federal elections. Art. I, §4, cl. 1. But we should
expect Congress to speak clearly when it decides to displace a
default rule enshrined in the text of the Constitution that serves
such important purposes.

															     The Court answers that
when Congress exercises its power under the Elections Clause
“it necessarily displaces some element of a pre-existing
legal regime erected by the States.” Ante, at 11. But the
same is true whenever Congress legislates in an area of concurrent
state and fed- eral power. A federal law regulating the operation
of grain warehouses, for example, necessarily alters the
“pre-existing legal regime erected by the States,” see
Rice, supra, at 229–230—even if only by regulating an
activity the States had chosen not to constrain. [ 2 ] In light of Ari- zona’s
constitutionally codified interest in the integrity of its federal
elections, “it is incumbent upon the federal courts to be
certain” that Congress intended to pre-empt Ari- zona’s
law. Atascadero State Hospital v. Scanlon, 473 U. S. 234, 243
(1985) .

															B

															     The canon of
constitutional avoidance also counsels against the Court’s
reading of the Act. As the Court acknowledges, the Constitution
reserves for the States the power to decide who is qualified to
vote in federal elections. Ante, at 13–15; see Oregon v.
Mitchell, 400 U. S. 112 –211 (1970) (Harlan, J.,
concurring in part and dissenting in part). The Court also
recognizes that, al- though Congress generally has the authority to
regulate the “Times, Places and Manner of holding” such
elections, Art. I, §4, cl. 1, a federal law that
frustrates a State’s ability to enforce its voter
qualifications would be constitutionally suspect. Ante, at 15; see
ante, at 4–8 (Thomas, J., dissenting). The Court nevertheless
reads the NVRA to restrict Arizona’s ability to enforce its
law providing that only United States citizens may vote. See Ariz.
Const., Art. VII, §2. We are normally more reluctant to inter-
pret federal statutes as upsetting “the usual constitutional
balance of federal and state powers.” Gregory v. Ashcroft,
501 U. S. 452, 460 (1991) ; see Frankfurter, Some Reflections
on the Reading of Statutes, 47 Colum. L. Rev. 527, 540 (1947)
(“[W]hen the Federal Government . . . radically
readjusts the balance of state and national authority, those
charged with the duty of legislating are reasonably
explicit”).

															     In refusing to give any
weight to Arizona’s interest in enforcing its voter
qualifications, the Court suggests that the State could return to
the Election Assistance Com- mission and renew its request for a
change to the federal form. Ante, at 16–17. But that prospect
does little to assuage constitutional concerns. The EAC currently
has no members, and there is no reason to believe that it will be
restored to life in the near future. If that situation persists,
Arizona’s ability to obtain a judicial resolution of its
constitutional claim is problematic. The most that the Court is
prepared to say is that the State “might” succeed by
seeking a writ of mandamus, and failing that, “might”
be able to mount a constitutional challenge. Ante, at 17,
n. 10. The Court sends the State to traverse a veritable
procedural obstacle course in the hope of obtaining a judicial
decision on the constitutionality of the relevant provisions of the
NVRA. A sensible interpretation of the Act would obviate these
difficulties.

															II

															     The NVRA does not
come close to manifesting the clear intent to pre-empt that we
should expect to find when Congress has exercised its Elections
Clause power in a way that is constitutionally questionable.
Indeed, even if neither the presumption against pre-emption nor the
canon of constitutional avoidance applied, the better reading of
the Act would be that Arizona is free to require those who use the
federal form to supplement their applications with proof of
citizenship.

															     I agree with the Court
that the phrase “accept and use,” when read in
isolation, is ambiguous, ante, at 6–7, but I disagree with
the Court’s conclusion that
§1973gg–4(a)(1)’s use of that phrase means that a
State must treat the federal form as a complete application and
must either grant or deny registration without requiring that the
ap- plicant supply additional information. Instead, I would hold
that a State “accept[s] and use[s]” the federal form so
long as it uses the form as a meaningful part of the registration
process.

															     The Court begins its
analysis of §1973gg–4(a)(1)’s context by examining
unrelated uses of the word “accept” elsewhere in the
United States Code. Ante, at 7–8. But a better place to
start is to ask what it normally means to “accept and
use” an application form. When the phrase is used in that
context, it is clear that an organization can “accept and
use” a form that it does not treat as a complete application.
For example, many colleges and universities accept and use the
Common Application for Undergraduate College Admission but also
require that applicants submit various additional forms or
documents. See Common Application, 2012–2013 College
Deadlines, Fees, and Requirements,
https://www.commonapp.org/CommonApp/ MemberRequirements.aspx (all
Internet materials as visited June 10, 2013, and available in Clerk
of Court’s case file). Similarly, the Social Security
Administration undoubtedly “accepts and uses” its
Social Security card application form even though someone applying
for a card must also prove that he or she is a citizen or has a
qualifying immigration status. See Application for a Social Secu-
rity Card, Form SS–5 (2011), http://www.socialsecurity.gov/
online/ss-5.pdf. As such examples illustrate, when an organization
says that it “accepts and uses” an application form, it
does not necessarily mean that the form constitutes a complete
application.

															     That is not to say that
the phrase “accept and use” is meaningless when issued
as a “government diktat” in §1973gg–4(a)(1).
Ante, at 7. Arizona could not be said to “accept and
use” the federal form if it required applicants who submit
that form to provide all the same information a second time on a
separate state form. But Arizona does nothing of the kind. To the
contrary, the entire basis for respondents’ suit is that
Proposition 200 mandates that applicants provide information that
does not appear on a completed federal form. Although
§1973gg–4(a)(1) forbids States from requiring applicants
who use the federal form to submit a duplicative state form,
nothing in that pro- vision’s text prevents Arizona from
insisting that federal form applicants supplement their
applications with additional information.

															     That understanding of
§1973gg–4(a)(1) is confirmed by
§1973gg–4(a)(2), which allows States to design and use
their own voter registration forms “[i]n addition to
accepting and using” the federal form. The Act clearly
permits States to require proof of citizenship on their own forms,
see §§1973gg–4(a)(2) and 1973gg–7(b)—a
step that Ari- zona has taken and that today’s decision does
not disturb. Thus, under the Court’s approach, whether
someone can register to vote in Arizona without providing proof of
citizenship will depend on the happenstance of which of two
alternative forms the applicant completes. That could not possibly
be what Congress intended; it is as if the Internal Revenue Service
issued two sets of personal income tax forms with different tax
rates.

															     We could avoid this
nonsensical result by holding that the Act lets the States decide
for themselves what in- formation “is necessary
. . . to assess the eligibility of the
applicant”—both by designing their own forms and by
requiring that federal form applicants provide supplemental
information when appropriate. §1973gg–7(b)(1). The
Act’s provision for state forms shows that the purpose of the
federal form is not to supplant the States’ authority in this
area but to facilitate interstate voter registration drives. Thanks
to the federal form, volunteers distributing voter registration
materials at a shopping mall in Yuma can give a copy of the same
form to every person they meet without attempting to distinguish
between residents of Arizona and California. See H. R. Rep.
No. 103–9, p. 10 (1993) (“Uniform mail forms will
permit voter registration drives through a regional or national
mailing, or for more than one State at a central location, such as
a city where persons from a number of neighboring States work, shop
or attend events”). The federal form was meant to facilitate
voter registration drives, not to take away the States’
traditional authority to decide what information registrants must
supply. [ 3 ]

															     The Court purports to
find support for its contrary approach in
§1973gg–6(a)(1)(B), which says that a State must
“ensure that any eligible applicant is registered to vote in
an election . . . if the valid voter registration form of
the applicant is postmarked” within a specified period. Ante,
at 8–9. The Court understands §1973gg–6(a)(1)(B)
to mean that a State must register an eligible applicant if he or
she submits a “ ‘valid voter registration
form.’ ” Ante, at 9. But when read in context,
that provision simply identifies the time within which a State must
process registration applications; it says nothing about whether a
State may require the submission of supplemental in- formation. The
Court’s more expansive interpretation of
§1973gg–6(a)(1)(B) sneaks in a qualification that is
nowhere to be found in the text. The Court takes pains to say that
a State need not register an applicant who properly completes and
submits a federal form but is known by the State to be ineligible.
See ante, at 12–13. But the Court takes the position that a
State may not demand that an applicant supply any additional
information to confirm voting eligibility. Nothing in
§1973gg–6(a)(1)(B) supports this distinction.

															     What is a State to do
if it has reason to doubt an applicant’s eligibility but
cannot be sure that the applicant is ineligible? Must the State
either grant or deny registration without communicating with the
applicant? Or does the Court believe that a State may ask for
additional information in individual cases but may not impose a
categorical requirement for all applicants? If that is the
Court’s position, on which provision of the NVRA does it
rely? The Court’s reading of §1973gg–6(a)(1)(B) is
atex- tual and makes little sense.

															*  *  *

															     Properly interpreted,
the NVRA permits Arizona to require applicants for federal voter
registration to provide proof of eligibility. I therefore
respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 The Court argues that
Gradwell is irrelevant, observing that there was no state law
directly at issue in that case, which concerned a pros-ecution
under a federal statute. Ante, at 10, n. 5. But the same
istrue of Ex parte Siebold, , on which the Court relies in the
very next breath. In any event, it is hard to see why a presumption
about the effect of federal law on the conduct of congressional
elections should have less force when the federal law is alleged to
conflict with a state law. If anything, one would expect the
oppositeto be true.
2
 The Court observes that
the Commerce Clause, unlike the Elections Clause, empowers Congress
to legislate in areas that do not implicate concurrent state power.
Ante, at 12, n. 6. Apparently the Court means that the
presumption against pre-emption only applies in those unus-ual
cases in which it is unclear whether a federal statute even touches
on subject matter that the States may regulate under their broad
police powers. I doubt that the Court is prepared to abide by this
cramped understanding of the presumption against pre-emption. See,
e.g., Hillman v. Maretta, 569 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op.,
at 6) (“There is therefore ‘a presumption against
pre-emption’ of state laws governing domestic
relations” (quoting Egelhoff v. Egelhoff, ).
3
 The Court argues that the
federal form would not accomplish this purpose under my
interpretation because “a volunteer in Yuma would have to
give every prospective voter not only a Federal Form, but alsoa
separate set of either Arizona- or California-specific
instructions.” Ante, at 10, n. 4. But this is exactly
what Congress envisioned. Eigh-teen of the federal form’s 23
pages are state-specific instructions.


