::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-065
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 205 (2013)
::decision_name::  Agency for International Development v. Alliance for Open Society International, Inc.
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–10

															_________________

															AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT,
et al., PETITIONERS v. ALLIANCE FOR OPEN SOCIETY
INTERNATIONAL, INC., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 20, 2013]

															     Justice Scalia, with
whom Justice Thomas joins, dissenting.     

															     The Leadership Act
provides that “any group or organization that does not have a
policy explicitly opposing prostitution and sex trafficking”
may not receive funds appropriated under the Act. 22
U. S. C. §7631(f). This Policy Requirement is
nothing more than a means of selecting suitable agents to implement
the Government’s chosen strategy to eradicate HIV/AIDS. That
is perfectly permissible under the Constitution.

															     The First Amendment
does not mandate a viewpoint-neutral government. Government must
choose between rival ideas and adopt some as its own: competition
over cartels, solar energy over coal, weapon development over
disarmament, and so forth. Moreover, the government may enlist the
assistance of those who believe in its ideas to carry them to
fruition; and it need not enlist for that purpose those who oppose
or do not support the ideas. That seems to me a matter of the most
common common sense. For example: One of the purposes of
America’s foreign-aid programs is the fostering of good will
towards this country. If the organization Hamas—reputed to
have an efficient system for delivering welfare—were excluded
from a program for the distribution of U. S. food assistance,
no one could reasonably object. And that would remain true if Hamas
were an organization of United States citizens entitled to the
protection of the Constitution. So long as the unfunded
organization remains free to engage in its activities (including
anti-American propaganda) “without federal assistance,”
United States v. American Library Assn., Inc., 539 U. S. 194,
212 (2003) (plurality), refusing to make use of its assistance for
an enterprise to which it is opposed does not abridge its speech.
And the same is true when the rejected organization is not
affirmatively opposed to, but merely unsupportive of, the object of
the federal program, which appears to be the case here.
(Respondents do not promote prostitution, but neither do they wish
to oppose it.) A federal program to encourage healthy eating habits
need not be administered by the American Gourmet Society, which has
nothing against healthy food but does not insist upon it.

															     The argument is that
this commonsense principle will enable the government to
discriminate against, and injure, points of view to which it is
opposed. Of course the Constitution does not prohibit government
spending that discriminates against, and injures, points of view to
which the government is opposed; every government program which
takes a position on a controversial issue does that. Anti-smoking
programs injure cigar aficionados, programs encouraging sexual
abstinence injure free-love advocates, etc. The constitutional
prohibition at issue here is not a prohibition against
discriminating against or injuring opposing points of view, but the
First Amendment’s prohibition against the coercing of speech.
I am frankly dubious that a condition for eligibility to
participate in a minor federal program such as this one runs afoul
of that prohibition even when the condition is irrelevant to the
goals of the program. Not every disadvantage is a coercion.

															     But that is not the
issue before us here. Here the views that the Government demands an
applicant forswear—or that the Government insists an
applicant favor—are relevant to the program in question. The
program is valid only if the Government is entitled to disfavor the
opposing view (here, advocacy of or toleration of prostitution).
And if the program can disfavor it, so can the selection of those
who are to administer the program. There is no risk that this
principle will enable the Government to discriminate arbitrarily
against positions it disfavors. It would not, for example, permit
the Government to exclude from bidding on defense contracts anyone
who refuses to abjure pros- titution. But here a central part of
the Government’s HIV/AIDS strategy is the suppression of
prostitution, by which HIV is transmitted. It is entirely
reasonable to admit to participation in the program only those who
believe in that goal.

															     According to the Court,
however, this transgresses a constitutional line between conditions
that operate inside a spending program and those that control
speech outside of it. I am at a loss to explain what this central
pillar of the Court’s opinion—this distinction that the
Court itself admits is “hardly clear” and “not
always self-evident,” ante, at 8, 11—has to do with the
First Amendment. The distinction was alluded to, to be sure, in
Rust v. Sullivan, 500 U. S. 173 (1991) , but not as (what the
Court now makes it) an invariable requirement for First Amendment
validity. That the pro-abortion speech prohibition was limited to
“inside the program” speech was relevant in Rust
because the program itself was not an anti-abortion program. The
Government remained neutral on that controversial issue, but did
not wish abortion to be promoted within its
family-planning-services program. The statutory objective could not
be impaired, in other words, by “outside the program”
pro-abortion speech. The purpose of the limitation was to prevent
Government funding from providing the means of pro-abortion
propaganda, which the Government did not wish (and had no
constitutional obligation) to provide. The situation here is vastly
different. Elimination of prostitution is an objective of the
HIV/AIDS program, and any promotion of prostitution—whether
made inside or outside the program—does harm the program.

															     Of course the most
obvious manner in which the admission to a program of an
ideological opponent can frustrate the purpose of the program is by
freeing up the opponent’s funds for use in its ideological
opposition. To use the Hamas example again: Subsidizing that
organization’s provision of social services enables the money
that it would otherwise use for that purpose to be used, instead,
for anti-American propaganda. Perhaps that problem does not exist
in this case since the respondents do not affirmatively promote
prostitution. But the Court’s analysis categorically rejects
that justification for ideological requirements in all cases,
demanding “record indica[tion]” that “federal
funding will simply supplant private funding, rather than pay for
new programs.” Ante, at 14. This seems to me quite naive.
Money is fungible. The economic reality is that when NGOs can
conduct their AIDS work on the Government’s dime, they can
expend greater resources on policies that undercut the Leadership
Act. The Government need not establish by record evidence that this
will happen. To make it a valid consideration in determining
participation in federal programs, it suffices that this is a real
and obvious risk.

															     None of the cases the
Court cites for its holding provide support. I have already
discussed Rust. As for Regan v. Taxation With Representation of
Wash., 461 U. S. 540 (1983) , that case upheld rather than
invalidated a prohibition against lobbying as a condition of
receiving 26 U. S. C. §501(c)(3) tax-exempt status.
The Court’s holding rested on the conclusion that “a
legislature’s decision not to subsidize the exercise of a
fundamental right does not infringe the right.” 461
U. S., at 549. Today’s opinion, ante, at 9, stresses the
fact that these nonprofits were permitted to use a separate
§501(c)(4) affiliate for their lobbying—but that fact,
alluded to in a footnote, Regan, 461 U. S., at 545, n. 6,
was entirely nonessential to the Court’s holding. Indeed,
that rationale prompted a separate concurrence precisely because
the majority of the Court did not rely upon it. See id., at
551–554 (Blackmun, J., concurring). As for FCC v. League of
Women Voters of Cal., 468 U. S. 364 (1984) , the ban on
editorializing at issue there was disallowed precisely because it
did not further a relevant, permissible policy of the Federal
Communications Act—and indeed was simply incompatible with
the Act’s “affirmativ[e] encourage[ment]” of the
“vigorous expression of controversial opinions” by
licensed broadcasters. Id., at 397.

															     The Court makes a
head-fake at the unconstitutional conditions doctrine, ante, at 12,
but that doctrine is of no help. There is no case of ours in which
a condition that is relevant to a statute’s valid purpose and
that is not in itself unconstitutional (e.g., a
religious-affiliation condition that violates the Establishment
Clause) has been held to violate the doctrine.* Moreover, as I
suggested earlier, the contention that the condition here
“coerces” respondents’ speech is on its face
implausible. Those organizations that wish to take a different tack
with respect to prostitution “are as unconstrained now as
they were before the enactment of [the Leadership Act].”
National Endowment for Arts v. Finley, 524 U. S. 569, 595
(1998) (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment). As the Court
acknowledges, “[a]s a general matter, if a party objects to a
condition on the receipt of federal funding, its recourse is to
decline the funds,” ante, at 7, and to draw on its own
coffers.

															     The majority cannot
credibly say that this speech condition is coercive, so it does
not. It pussyfoots around the lack of coercion by invalidating the
Leadership Act for “requiring recipients to profess a
specific belief” and “demanding that funding recipients
adopt—as their own—the Government’s view on an
issue of public concern.” Ante, at 12 (emphasis mine). But
like King Cnut’s commanding of the tides, here the
Government’s “requiring” and
“demanding” have no coercive effect. In the end, and in
the circumstances of this case, “compell[ing] as a condition
of federal funding the affirmation of a belief,” ante, at 15
(emphasis mine), is no compulsion at all. It is the reasonable
price of admission to a limited government-spending program that
each organization remains free to accept or reject. Section 7631(f)
“defin[es] the recipient” only to the extent he decides
that it is in his interest to be so defined. Ante, at 12.
    

															*  *  *

															    
Ideological-commitment requirements such as the one here are quite
rare; but making the choice between competing applicants on
relevant ideological grounds is undoubtedly quite common. See,
e.g., Finley, supra. As far as the Constitution is concerned, it is
quite impossible to distinguish between the two. If the government
cannot demand a relevant ideological commitment as a condition of
application, neither can it distinguish between applicants on a
relevant ideological ground. And that is the real evil of
today’s opinion. One can expect, in the future, frequent
challenges to the denial of government funding for relevant
ideological reasons.

															     The Court’s
opinion contains stirring quotations from cases like West Virginia
Bd. of Ed. v. Barnette, 319 U. S. 624 (1943) , and Turner
Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U. S. 622 (1994) . They
serve only to distract attention from the elephant in the room:
that the Government is not forcing anyone to say anything. What
Congress has done here—requiring an ideological commitment
relevant to the Government task at hand—is approved by the
Constitution itself. Americans need not support the Constitution;
they may be Communists or anarchists. But “[t]he Senators and
Representatives . . . , and the Members of the several
State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers, both
of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound by
Oath or Affirmation, to support [the] Constitution.”
U. S. Const., Art. VI, cl. 3. The Framers saw the wisdom of
imposing affirmative ideological commitments prerequisite to
assisting in the government’s work. And so should we.

Notes
1
* In Legal Services
Corporation v. Velazquez, , upon which the Court relies, the
opinion specified that “in the context of this statute there
is no programmatic message of the kind recognized in Rust and which
sufficed there to allow the Government to specify the advice deemed
necessary for its legitimate objectives,” id., at
548.


