::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-062
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 99 (2013)
::decision_name::  Alleyne v. United States
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–9335

															_________________

															ALLEN RYAN ALLEYNE, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															[June 17, 2013]

															

															     Chief Justice
Roberts, with whom Justice Scalia and Justice Kennedy join,
dissenting.

															     Suppose a jury convicts
a defendant of a crime carrying a sentence of five to ten years.
And suppose the judge says he would sentence the defendant to five
years, but because he finds that the defendant used a gun during
the crime, he is going to add two years and sentence him to seven.
No one thinks that this violates the defendant’s right to a
jury trial in any way.

															     Now suppose the
legislature says that two years should be added to the five year
minimum, if the judge finds that the defendant used a gun during
the crime. Such a provision affects the role of the
judge—limiting his discretion—but has no effect on the
role of the jury. And because it does not affect the jury’s
role, it does not violate the jury trial guarantee of the Sixth
Amendment.

															     The Framers envisioned
the Sixth Amendment as a pro- tection for defendants from the power
of the Government. The Court transforms it into a protection for
judges from the power of the legislature. For that reason, I
respect- fully dissent.

															I

															     In a steady stream of
cases decided over the last 15 years, this Court has sought to
identify the historical understanding of the Sixth Amendment jury
trial right and determine how that understanding applies to modern
sentencing practice. Our key sources in this task have been
19th-century treatises and common law cases identifying which facts
qualified as “elements” of a crime, and therefore had
to be alleged in the indictment and proved to a jury beyond a
reasonable doubt. See, e.g., Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S.
466 –483, 489–490, n. 15 (2000) (collecting
sources); id., at 501–518 (Thomas, J., concurring) (same).
With remarkable uniformity, those author- ities provided that an
element was “whatever is in law essential to the punishment
sought to be inflicted.” 1 J. Bishop, Criminal Procedure 50
(2d ed. 1872); see also Apprendi, supra, at 489, n. 15
(“ ‘[T]he indictment must contain an allegation of
every fact which is legally essential to the punishment to be
inflicted’ ” (quoting United States v. Reese, 92
U. S. 214, 232 (1876) (Clifford, J., dissenting))); 1 Bishop,
supra, §87, at 55 (an indictment must include “any
particular fact which the law makes essential to the
punishment”).

															     Judging that this
common law rule best reflects what the Framers understood the Sixth
Amendment jury right to protect, we have struck down sentencing
schemes that were inconsistent with the rule. In Apprendi, for
example, the defendant pleaded guilty to a crime that carried a
maximum sentence of ten years. After his plea, however, the trial
judge determined that the defendant had committed the crime with a
biased purpose. Under a New Jersey law, that finding allowed the
judge to impose up to ten additional years in prison. Exercising
that authority, the judge sentenced the defendant to 12 years. 530
U. S., at 469–471.

															     Because the sentence
was two years longer than would have been possible without the
finding of bias, that find- ing was “essential to the
punishment” imposed. 1 Bishop, supra, at 50; see Apprendi,
530 U. S., at 491–492. Thus, in line with the common law
rule, we held the New Jersey procedure unconstitutional. Id., at
497.

															     Subsequent cases have
worked out how this principle applies in other contexts, such as
capital sentencing regimes, state and federal sentencing
guidelines, or criminal fines. See Ring v. Arizona, 536 U. S.
584 (2002) ; Blakely v. Washington, 542 U. S. 296 (2004) ;
United States v. Booker, 543 U. S. 220 (2005) ; Southern Union
Co. v. United States, 567 U. S. ___ (2012). Through all of
them, we have adhered to the rule, rooted in the common law
understanding described above, that we laid down in Apprendi:
“Other than the fact of a prior conviction, any fact that
increases the penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory
maximum must be submitted to a jury, and proved beyond a reasonable
doubt.” 530 U. S., at 490; see Blakely, supra, at 301
(quoting above statement); Booker, supra, at 231 (same); Southern
Union Co., supra, at ___ (slip op., at 3) (same); see also Ring,
supra, at 588–589 ( Sixth Amendment “does not permit a
defendant to be ‘expose[d] . . . to a penalty
exceeding the maximum he would receive if punished according to the
facts reflected in the jury verdict alone’ ”
(quoting Apprendi, supra, at 483; alterations in original).

															     We have embraced this
19th-century common law rule based not only on a judgment that it
reflects the understanding in place when the Sixth Amendment was
ratified, but also on the “need to give intelligible content
to the right of jury trial.” Blakely, supra, at 305. As
Justice Scalia wrote in Apprendi, it is unclear “what the
right to trial by jury does guarantee if . . . it does
not guarantee . . . the right to have a jury determine
those facts that determine the maximum sentence the law
allows.” 530 U. S., at 498–499 (concurring
opinion).

															     After all, if a
judge’s factfinding could authorize a sentence beyond that
allowed by the jury’s verdict alone, the jury trial would be
“a mere preliminary to a judicial inquisition into the facts
of the crime the State actually seeks to punish.” Blakely,
supra, at 306–307. The Framers clearly envisioned a more
robust role for the jury. They appreciated the danger inherent in
allowing “justices . . . named by the crown”
to “imprison, dispatch, or exile any man that was obnoxious
to the government, by an instant declaration, that such is their
will and pleasure.” 4 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the Laws
of England 343 (1769). To guard against this “violence and
partiality of judges appointed by the crown,” the common law
“wisely placed th[e] strong . . . barrier, of
. . . trial by jury, between the liberties of the people,
and the prerogative of the crown.” Ibid. The Sixth Amendment
therefore provided for trial by jury as a “double security,
against the prejudices of judges, who may partake of the wishes and
opinions of the government, and against the passions of the
multitude, who may demand their victim with a clamorous
precipitancy.” J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of
the United States §924, p. 657 (Abr. 1833); see also The
Federalist No. 83, p. 499 (C. Rossiter ed. 1961) (A. Hamilton)
(discussing criminal jury trial as a protection against
“judicial despotism”). Our holdings that a judge may
not sentence a defendant to more than the jury has authorized
properly preserve the jury right as a guard against judicial
overreaching.

															II

															     There is no such risk
of judicial overreaching here. Under 18 U. S. C.
§924(c)(1)(A)(i), the jury’s verdict fully authorized
the judge to impose a sentence of anywhere from five years to life
in prison. No additional finding of fact was
“essential” to any punishment within the range. After
rendering the verdict, the jury’s role was completed, it was
discharged, and the judge began the process of determining where
within that range to set Alleyne’s sentence.

															     Everyone agrees that in
making that determination, the judge was free to consider any
relevant facts about the of- fense and offender, including facts
not found by the jury beyond a reasonable doubt.

															“[B]oth before and since the
American colonies became a nation, courts . . . practiced
a policy under which a sentencing judge could exercise a wide
discretion in the sources and types of evidence used to assist him
in determining the kind and extent of punishment to be imposed
within limits fixed by law.” Williams v. New York, 337
U. S. 241, 246 (1949) .

															As Apprendi itself recognized, “nothing in
this history suggests that it is impermissible for judges to
exercise discretion—taking into consideration various factors
relating both to offense and offender—in imposing a judgment
within the range prescribed by statute.” 530 U. S., at
481 (emphasis deleted); see also Dillon v. United States, 560
U. S. __, __ (2010) (slip op., at 11). And the majority does
not dispute the point. Ante, at 15 (“Our ruling today does
not mean that any fact that influences judicial discretion must be
found by a jury.”). Thus, under the majority’s rule, in
the absence of a statutory mandatory minimum, there would have been
no constitutional problem had the judge, exercising the discretion
given him by the jury’s verdict, decided that seven years in
prison was the appropriate penalty for the crime because of his
finding that the firearm had been brandished during the
offense.

															     In my view, that is
enough to resolve this case. The jury’s verdict authorized
the judge to impose the precise sentence he imposed for the precise
factual reason he imposed it. As we have recognized twice before,
the Sixth Amendment demands nothing more. See Harris v. United
States, 536 U. S. 545 –569 (2002); McMillan v.
Pennsylvania, 477 U. S. 79, 93 (1986) .

															III

															     This approach is
entirely consistent with Apprendi. As I have explained,
Apprendi’s constraint on the normal legislative control of
criminal procedure draws its legitimacy from two primary
principles: (1) common law understandings of the
“elements” of a crime, and (2) the need to preserve the
jury as a “strong barrier” between defendants and the
State. Neither of those principles supports the rule the majority
adopts today.

															     First, there is no body
of historical evidence supporting today’s new rule. The
majority does not identify a single case holding that a fact
affecting only the sentencing floor qualified as an element or had
to be found by a jury, nor does it point to any treatise language
to that effect. Ante, at 8–10. To be sure, the relatively
recent vintage of mandatory minimum sentencing enhancements means
that few, if any, 19th-century courts would have encountered such a
fact pattern. So I do not mean to suggest that the absence of
historical condemnation of the practice con- clusively establishes
its constitutionality today. But given that Apprendi’s rule
rests heavily on affirmative historical evidence about the
practices to which we have previously applied it, the lack of such
evidence on statutory minimums is a good reason not to extend it
here.

															     Nor does the
majority’s extension of Apprendi do anything to preserve the
role of the jury as a safeguard between the defendant and the
State. That is because even if a jury does not find that the
firearm was brandished, a judge can do so and impose a harsher
sentence because of his finding, so long as that sentence remains
under the statutory maximum. The question here is about the power
of judges, not juries. Under the rule in place until today, a
legislature could tell judges that certain facts carried certain
weight, and require the judge to devise a sentence based on that
weight—so long as the sentence remained within the range
authorized by the jury. Now, in the name of the jury right that
formed a barrier between the defendant and the State, the majority
has erected a bar- rier between judges and legislatures,
establishing that discretionary sentencing is the domain of judges.
Legislatures must keep their respectful distance.

															     I find this new rule
impossible to square with the historical understanding of the jury
right as a defense from judges, not a defense of judges. See
Apprendi, supra, at 498 (Scalia, J., concurring) (“Judges, it
is sometimes necessary to remind ourselves, are part of the
State”). Just as the Sixth Amendment “limits judicial
power only to the extent that the claimed judicial power infringes
on the province of the jury,” Blakely, 542 U. S., at
308, so too it limits legislative power only to the extent that
power infringes on the province of the jury. Because the claimed
infringement here is on the province of the judge, not the jury,
the jury right has no work to do.

															IV

															     The majority offers
several arguments to the contrary. I do not find them
persuasive.

															     First, the majority
asserts that “because the legally prescribed range is the
penalty affixed to the crime, it follows that a fact increasing
either end of the range produces a new penalty and constitutes an
ingredient of the offense.” Ante, at 11 (citation omitted).
The syllogism trips out of the gate, for its first
premise—that the constitutionally relevant
“penalty” includes the bottom end of the statutory
range—simply assumes the answer to the question presented.
Neither of the historical sources to which the majority points
gives an answer: The Bishop treatise speaks only to situations in
which “a statute prescribes a particular punishment,”
not a range of possible punishments. 1 Bishop, Criminal Procedure
§598, at 360–361. The Wharton treatise is similarly
unhelpful, focusing on statutes that change the maximum or alter
the nature of the common law crime. See 1 F. Wharton, Criminal Law
§371, p. 291 (rev. 7th ed. 1874). The sources provided in the
Apprendi concurrence offer no support, for as already discussed, we
lack historical evidence about the treatment of facts that altered
only the floor of a sentencing range.

															     Second, the majority
observes that “criminal statutes have long specified both the
floor and ceiling of sentence ranges, which is evidence that both
define the legally prescribed penalty.” Ante, at 11. Again,
though, this simply assumes the core premise: That the
constitution- ally relevant “penalty” involves both the
statutory minimum and the maximum. Unless one accepts that premise
on faith, the fact that statutes have long specified both floor and
ceiling is evidence of nothing more than that stat- utes have long
specified both the floor and the ceiling. Nor does it help to say
that “the floor of a mandatory range is as relevant to
wrongdoers as the ceiling.” Ante, at 12. The meaning of the
Sixth Amendment does not turn on what wrongdoers care about
most.

															     More importantly, legal
rules frequently focus on the maximum sentence while ignoring the
minimum, even though both are “relevant” to punishment.
Closest to this case, the question whether the jury right applies
at all turns on whether the maximum sentence exceeds six
months—not, say, whether the minimum punishment involves time
in prison. Blanton v. North Las Vegas, 489 U. S. 538, 543
(1989) ; see also Lewis v. United States, 518 U. S. 322, 326
(1996) (“In evaluating the seriousness of the offense, we
place primary emphasis on the maximum prison term
authorized”). Likewise, the rights to vote and to bear arms
are typically denied to felons—that is, those convicted of a
crime with a maximum sentence of more than one year in prison. See
Richardson v. Ramirez, 418 U. S. 24, 48 (1974) ; District of
Columbia v. Heller, 554 U. S. 570, 626 (2008) ; Black’s
Law Dictionary 694 (9th ed. 2009). Examples of other distinctions
turning only on max- imum penalties abound, as in cases of
recidivism enhancements that apply only to prior convictions with a
maximum sentence of more than a specified number of years. See,
e.g., 18 U. S. C. §924(e)(2). That a minimum
sentence is “relevant” to punishment, and that a
statute defines it, does not mean it must be treated the same as
the maximum sentence the law allows.

															     Third, the majority
offers that “it is impossible to dispute that facts
increasing the legally prescribed floor aggravate the
punishment.” Ante, at 12. This argument proves too much, for
it would apply with equal force to any fact which leads the judge,
in the exercise of his own discretion, to choose a penalty higher
than he otherwise would have chosen. The majority nowhere explains
what it is about the jury right that bars a determination by
Congress that brandishing (or any other fact) makes an offense
worth two extra years, but not an identical determination by a
judge. Simply calling one “aggravation” and the other
“discretion” does not do the trick.

															     Fourth, the majority
argues that “[i]t is no answer to say that the defendant
could have received the same sentence with or without” a
particular factual finding, pointing out “that a defendant
could not be convicted and sentenced for assault, if the jury only
finds the facts for larceny, even if the punishments prescribed for
each crime are identical.” Ante, at 14. In that hypothetical
case, the legislature has chosen to define two crimes with two
different sets of elements. Courts must, of course, respect that
legislative judgment. But that tells us nothing about when courts
can override the legislature’s decision not to create
separate crimes, and instead to treat a particular fact as a
trigger for a minimum sentence within the already-authorized
range.

															*  *  *

															     I will not quibble
with the majority’s application of our stare decisis
precedents. But because I believe the major- ity’s new
rule—safeguarding the power of judges, not juries—finds
no support in the history or purpose of the Sixth Amendment, I
respectfully dissent.

													
