::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-062
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 99 (2013)
::decision_name::  Alleyne v. United States
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–9335

															_________________

															ALLEN RYAN ALLEYNE, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fourth circuit

															[June 17, 2013]

															

															     Justice Alito,
dissenting.

															     The Court overrules a
well-entrenched precedent with barely a mention of stare decisis.
See ante, at 16, n. 6. Stare decisis is, of course, not an
“inexorable command” in the field of constitutional
law. Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 828 (1991) .
Nevertheless, the Court ought to be consistent in its willingness
to reconsider precedent. If Harris v. United States, 536 U. S.
545 (2002) , and McMillan v. Pennsylvania, 477 U. S. 79 (1986) ,
can be cast aside simply because a majority of this Court now
disagrees with them, that same approach may properly be followed in
future cases. See Arizona v. Gant, 556 U. S. 332 –364
(2009) (Alito, J., dissenting).

															     If the Court is of a
mind to reconsider existing precedent, a prime candidate should be
Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466 (2000) . Although
Apprendi purported to rely on the original understanding of the
jury trial right, there are strong reasons to question the
Court’s analysis on that point. See, e.g., Bibas, Judicial
Fact-Finding and Sentence Enhancements in a World of Guilty Pleas,
110 Yale L. J. 1097, 1123–1132 (2001) (critiquing the
historical evidence relied upon by the Apprendi majority and
concurrence, and concluding (1) that the “broad judicial
discretion” characteristic of eighteenth-century common-law
misdemeanor sentencing “undercuts the suggestion that
sentencing was the sacred province of juries alone,” (2) that
even the “nineteenth-century tradition was not uniform,
suggesting that the common law had no fixed rule on the
subject,” and (3) that “no eighteenth-century evidence
link[ed] this [nineteenth-century] tradition back to the time of
the Founding”); Little & Chen, The Lost History of
Apprendi and the Blakely Petition for Rehearing, 17 Fed. Sentencing
Rep. 69, 69–74 (2004) (“Blakely and Apprendi were
undoubtedly founded on an erroneous historical un-derstanding of
the Framers’ views in 1790 when they wrote the 6th
Amendment’s jury-trial guarantee. The fact that the Framers
themselves wrote over a dozen indeterminate sentencing ranges in
the first federal crime bill (see 1Stat. 112–118
. . .), has simply been overlooked by the Court”);
Mitchell, Apprendi’s Domain, 2006 Sup. Ct. Rev. 297,
298–299 (2006) (arguing, in the context of defending a
broader conception of the jury right, that “Apprendi’s
historical claim that sentencing enhancements were treated as
‘elements’ of offenses whenever they increased a
de-fendant’s maximum punishment is demonstrably
mis-taken” and that “the platitudes from Joel Prentiss
Bishop’s nineteenth-century treatises, which the pro-Apprendi
Justices repeatedly invoke to support this assertion [that
sentencing enhancements that increased a maximum pun-ishment were
treated as elements of the offense], are pat-ently false and did
not accurately describe the law in actual court decisions of that
era” (footnotes omitted)).

															     The Court’s
decision creates a precedent about precedent that may have greater
precedential effect than the dubious decisions on which it
relies.*

Notes
1
* Speaking for herself,
Justice Ginsburg, and Justice Kagan—but not for the
Court—Justice Sotomayor argues that Harris’ stare
decisis value is undermined by the subsequent reasoning of the
Court’s Apprendi line of cases and by the fact that no one
rationale in Harris commanded five votes. I disagree. In my view,
Harris’ force is not vitiated by the Court’s Apprendi
line of cases, for two reasons. First, that line of cases is
predicated on a purported requirement that juries find facts that
increase maximum penalties, not mandatory minimums. Accordingly, as
The Chief Justice’s dissent persuasively explains, ante,
at 1–7, Apprendi and its progeny have no impact on the
distinct question resolved by Harris, which does not bear on the
jury right. Second, the Apprendi line is now too intellectually
incoherent to undermine any “contrary” precedents. If
the rationale of Apprendi—which, as broadly construed by the
Court in this case, is that “[a]ny fact that, by law,
increases the penalty for a crime is an ‘element’ that
must be submitted to the jury and found beyond a reasonable
doubt,” ante, at 1—were taken seriously, discretionary
sentencing, as prescribed by , should also be held to violate the .
But a majority of the Court has not been willing to go where its
reasoning leads. Nor can it be correct to say that “Harris in
no way strengthens the force of stare decisis in this case”
because a “ ‘majority of the Court expressly
disagreed with the rationale of [a] plurality.’ ”
Ante, at 3–4 (Sotomayor, J., concurring) (quoting Seminole
Tribe of Fla. v. Florida, ). Decisions in which no one rationale
commands a majority of the Court—including prominent
decisions based on the views of a single Justice—are often
thought to have precedential effect. See, e.g., United States v.
Booker, ; Regents of Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke, –272 (1978)
(opinion of Powell, J.). And, of course, if Harris is not entitled
to stare decisis weight, then neither is the Court’s opinion
in this case. After all, only four Members of the Court think that
the Court’s holding is the correct reading ofthe
Constitution. See ante, at 1–3 (Breyer, J., concurring
in part and concurring in judgment). As she concedes, ante, at 4,
Justice Sotomayor’s concurrence is nec-essarily selective in
its discussion of the factors that the Court has previously found
to be relevant to the application of stare decisis. For example,
she does not argue—presumably because there is no good
argument to be made—that Harris and McMillan v. Pennsylvania,
(which provide the framework under which criminal prosecutions have
been carried out for at least the past 27 years) have proved
“ ‘unworkable.’ ” Vieth v.
Jubelirer, (plurality opinion) (quoting Payne v. Tennessee, ). Nor
does she contend that “circumstances” outside the Court
“have changed so radically as to undermine [Harris’]
critical factual assumptions.” Randall v. Sorrell, (plurality
opinion). Indeed, no party or amicus has cited any such
circumstances. In short, other than the fact that there are
currently five Justices willing to vote to overrule Harris, and not
five Justices willing to overrule Apprendi, there is no compelling
reason why the Court overrules the former rather than the latter.
If the opportunity arises in the future to overrule Apprendi or the
present case—both of which presumably involve
“procedural rules . . . that do not govern primary
conduct and do not implicate the reliance interests of private
parties,” ante, at 2 (Sotomayor, J., concurring)—the
precedent the Court sets today will be relevant to the issue of
stare decisis.


