::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-075
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 637 (2013)
::decision_name::  Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–399

															_________________

															ADOPTIVE COUPLE, PETITIONERS v. BABY GIRL, a
minor child under the age of fourteen years, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
south carolina

															[June 25, 2013]

															

															     Justice Sotomayor,
with whom Justice Ginsburg and Justice Kagan join, and with whom
Justice Scalia joins in part, dissenting.

															     A casual reader of the
Court’s opinion could be forgiven for thinking this an easy
case, one in which the text of the applicable statute clearly
points the way to the only sen- sible result. In truth, however,
the path from the text of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978
(ICWA) to the result the Court reaches is anything but clear, and
its result anything but right.

															     The reader’s
first clue that the majority’s supposedly straightforward
reasoning is flawed is that not all Members who adopt its
interpretation believe it is compelled by the text of the statute,
see ante, at 1 (Thomas, J., concurring); nor are they all willing
to accept the consequences it will necessarily have beyond the
specific factual sce- nario confronted here, see ante, at 1
(Breyer, J., concurring). The second clue is that the majority
begins its analysis by plucking out of context a single phrase from
the last clause of the last subsection of the relevant provision,
and then builds its entire argument upon it. That is not how we
ordinarily read statutes. The third clue is that the major- ity
openly professes its aversion to Congress’ explicitly stated
purpose in enacting the statute. The majority ex- presses concern
that reading the Act to mean what it says will make it more
difficult to place Indian children in adoptive homes, see ante, at
14, 16, but the Congress that enacted the statute announced its
intent to stop “an alarmingly high percentage of Indian
families [from being] broken up” by, among other things, a
trend of “plac[ing] [Indian children] in non-Indian
. . . adoptive homes.” 25 U. S. C.
§1901(4). Policy disagreement with Congress’ judg- ment
is not a valid reason for this Court to distort the pro- visions of
the Act. Unlike the majority, I cannot adopt a reading of ICWA that
is contrary to both its text and its stated purpose. I respectfully
dissent.

															I

															     Beginning its reading
with the last clause of §1912(f), the majority concludes that
a single phrase appearing there—“continued
custody”—means that the entirety of the subsection is
inapplicable to any parent, however committed, who has not
previously had physical or legal custody of his child. Working back
to front, the majority then concludes that §1912(d), tainted
by its association with §1912(f), is also inapplicable; in the
majority’s view, a family bond that does not take custodial
form is not a family bond worth preserving from
“breakup.” Because there are apparently no limits on
the contaminating power of this single phrase, the majority does
not stop there. Under its reading, §1903(9), which makes
biological fathers “parent[s]” under this federal
statute (and where, again, the phrase “continued
custody” does not appear), has substantive force only when a
birth father has physical or state-recognized legal custody of his
daughter.

															     When it excludes
noncustodial biological fathers from the Act’s substantive
protections, this textually backward reading misapprehends
ICWA’s structure and scope. Moreover, notwithstanding the
majority’s focus on the per- ceived parental shortcomings of
Birth Father, its rea- soning necessarily extends to all Indian
parents who have never had custody of their children, no matter how
fully those parents have embraced the financial and emotional
responsibilities of parenting. The majority thereby transforms a
statute that was intended to provide uniform federal standards for
child custody proceedings involving Indian children and their
biological parents into an illogical piecemeal scheme.

															A

															     Better to start at
the beginning and consider the operation of the statute as a whole.
Cf. ante, at 13 (“[S]tatutory construction ‘is a
holistic endeavor[,]’ and . . . ‘[a]
provision that may seem ambiguous in isolation is often clarified
by the remainder of the statutory scheme’ ”
(quoting United Sav. Assn. of Tex. v. Timbers of Inwood Forest
Associates, Ltd., 484 U. S. 365, 371 (1988) )).

															     ICWA commences with
express findings. Congress rec- ognized that “there is no
resource that is more vital to the continued existence and
integrity of Indian tribes than their children,” 25
U. S. C. §1901(3), and it found that this resource
was threatened. State authorities insufficiently sensitive to
“the essential tribal relations of Indian people and the
cultural and social standards prevailing in Indian communities and
families” were breaking up Indian families and moving Indian
children to non-Indian homes and institutions. See
§§1901(4)–(5). As §1901(4) makes clear, and as
this Court recognized in Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v.
Holyfield, 490 U. S. 30, 33 (1989) , adoptive placements of
Indian children with non-Indian families contributed significantly
to the overall problem. See §1901(4) (finding that “an
alarmingly high percentage of [Indian] children are placed in
non-Indian . . . adoptive homes”).

															     Consistent with these
findings, Congress declared its purpose “to protect the best
interests of Indian children and to promote the stability and
security of Indian tribes and families by the establishment of
minimum Federal standards” applicable to child custody
proceedings involving Indian children. §1902. Section 1903
then goes on to establish the reach of these protections through
its defi- nitional provisions. For present purposes, two of these
definitions are crucial to understanding the statute’s full
scope.

															     First, ICWA defines the
term “parent” broadly to mean “any biological
parent . . . of an Indian child or any In- dian person
who has lawfully adopted an Indian child.” §1903(9). It
is undisputed that Baby Girl is an “Indian child”
within the meaning of the statute, see §1903(4); ante, at 2,
n. 1, and Birth Father consequently qualifies as a
“parent” under the Act. The statutory definition of
parent “does not include the unwed father where paternity has
not been acknowledged or established,” §1903(9), but
Birth Father’s biological paternity has never been questioned
by any party and was confirmed by a DNA test during the state court
proceedings, App. to Pet. for Cert. 109a (Sealed).

															     Petitioners and Baby
Girl’s guardian ad litem devote many pages of briefing to
arguing that the term “parent” should be defined with
reference to the law of the State in which an ICWA child custody
proceeding takes place. See Brief for Petitioners 19–29;
Brief for Respondent Guardian Ad Litem 32–41. These
arguments, however, are inconsistent with our recognition in
Holyfield that Congress intended the critical terms of the statute
to have uniform federal definitions. See 490 U. S., at
44–45. It is therefore unsurprising, although far from
unimportant, that the majority assumes for the purposes of its
analysis that Birth Father is an ICWA “parent.” See
ante, at 7.

															     Second, the Act’s
comprehensive definition of “child custody proceeding”
includes not only “ ‘adoptive
placement[s],’ ” “ ‘preadoptive
placement[s],’ ” and “ ‘foster
care placement[s],’ ” but also
“ ‘termination of parental
rights’ ” proceedings. §1903(1). This last
category encompasses “any action resulting in the termination
of the parent-child relationship,” §1903(1)(ii)
(emphasis added). So far, then, it is clear that Birth Father has a
federally recognized status as Baby Girl’s
“parent” and that his “parent-child
relationship” with her is subject to the protections of the
Act.

															     These protections are
numerous. Had Birth Father petitioned to remove this proceeding to
tribal court, for example, the state court would have been
obligated to transfer it absent an objection from Birth Mother or
good cause to the contrary. See §1911(b). Any voluntary
consent Birth Father gave to Baby Girl’s adoption would have
been invalid unless written and executed before a judge and would
have been revocable up to the time a final decree of adoption was
entered. [ 1 ] See
§§1913(a), (c). And §1912, the center of the dispute
here, sets forth procedural and substantive standards applicable in
“involuntary proceeding[s] in a State court,” including
foster care placements of Indian children and termination of paren-
tal rights proceedings. §1912(a). I consider
§1912’s provisions in order.

															     Section 1912(a)
requires that any party seeking “termination of parental
rights t[o] an Indian child” provide notice to both the
child’s “parent or Indian custodian” and the
child’s tribe “of the pending proceedings and of their
right of intervention.” Section 1912(b) mandates that counsel
be provided for an indigent “parent or In- dian
custodian” in any “termination proceeding.”
Section 1912(c) also gives all “part[ies]” to a
termination proceeding—which, thanks to §§1912(a)
and (b), will always include a biological father if he desires to
be present—the right to inspect all material “reports
or other documents filed with the court.” By providing
notice, counsel, and access to relevant documents, the statute
ensures a biological father’s meaningful participation in an
adoption proceeding where the termination of his parental rights is
at issue.

															     These protections are
consonant with the principle, recognized in our cases, that the
biological bond between parent and child is meaningful. “[A]
natural parent’s desire for and right to the companionship,
care, custody, and management of his or her children,” we
have explained, “is an interest far more precious than any
prop- erty right.” Santosky v. Kramer, 455 U. S. 745
–759 (1982) (internal quotation marks omitted). See also
infra, at 19-20. Although the Constitution does not compel the
protection of a biological father’s parent-child relationship
until he has taken steps to cultivate it, this Court has
nevertheless recognized that “the biological connection
. . . offers the natural father an opportunity that no
other male possesses to develop a relationship with his
offspring.” Lehr v. Robertson, 463 U. S. 248, 262 (1983)
. Federal recognition of a parent-child relationship between a
birth father and his child is consistent with ICWA’s purpose
of providing greater protection for the familial bonds between
Indian parents and their children than state law may afford.

															     The majority does not
and cannot reasonably dispute that ICWA grants biological fathers,
as “parent[s],” the right to be present at a
termination of parental rights proceeding and to have their views
and claims heard there. [ 2 ]
But the majority gives with one hand and takes away with the other.
Having assumed a uniform federal definition of “parent”
that confers certain procedural rights, the majority then
illogically concludes that ICWA’s substantive protections are
available only to a subset of “parent[s]”: those who
have previously had physical or state-recognized legal custody of
his or her child. The statute does not support this departure.

															     Section 1912(d)
provides that

															     “Any party
seeking to effect a foster care placement of, or termination of
parental rights to, an Indian child under State law shall satisfy
the court that active efforts have been made to provide remedial
services and rehabilitative programs designed to prevent the
breakup of the Indian family and that these efforts have proved
unsuccessful.” (Emphasis added.)

															In other words, subsection (d) requires that an
attempt be made to cure familial deficiencies before the drastic
measures of foster care placement or termination of parental rights
can be taken.

															     The majority would hold
that the use of the phrase “breakup of the Indian
family” in this subsection means that it does not apply where
a birth father has not previously had custody of his child. Ante,
at 12. But there is nothing about this capacious phrase that
licenses such a narrowing construction. As the majority notes,
“breakup” means “ ‘[t]he
discontinuance of a relationship.’ ” Ante, at 12
(quoting American Heritage Dictionary 235 (3d ed. 1992)). So far,
all of §1912’s provisions expressly apply in actions
aimed at terminating the “parent-child relationship”
that exists between a birth father and his child, and they extend
to it meaningful protections. As a logical matter, that
relationship is fully capable of being preserved via remedial
services and rehabilitation programs. See infra, at 15–17.
Nothing in the text of subsection (d) indicates that this blood
relationship should be excluded from the category of familial
“relationships” that the pro- vision aims to save from
“discontinuance.”

															     The majority, reaching
the contrary conclusion, asserts baldly that “when an Indian
parent abandons an Indian child prior to birth and that child has
never been in the Indian parent’s legal or physical custody,
there is no ‘relationship’ that would be
‘discontinu[ed]’ . . . by the termination of
the Indian parent’s rights.” Ante, at 12. Says who?
Certainly not the statute. Section 1903 recognizes Birth Father as
Baby Girl’s “parent,” and, in conjunction with
ICWA’s other provisions, it further establishes that their
“parent-child relationship” is protected under federal
law. In the face of these broad definitions, the majority has no
warrant to substitute its own policy views for Congress’ by
saying that “no ‘relationship’ ”
exists between Birth Father and Baby Girl simply because, based on
the hotly con- tested facts of this case, it views their family
bond as in- sufficiently substantial to deserve protection. [
3 ] Ibid.

															     The majority states
that its “interpretation of §1912(d) is . . .
confirmed by the provision’s placement next to §1912(e)
and §1912(f),” both of which use the phrase
“ ‘continued custody.’ ” Ante, at
13. This is the only aspect of the majority’s argument
regarding §1912(d) that is based on ICWA’s actual text
rather than layers of assertion su- perimposed on the text; but the
conclusion the majority draws from the juxtaposition of these
provisions is exactly backward.

															     Section 1912(f) is
paired with §1912(e), and as the ma- jority notes, both come
on the heels of the requirement of rehabilitative efforts just
reviewed. The language of the two provisions is nearly identical;
subsection (e) is headed “Foster care placement
orders,” and subsection (f), the relevant provision here, is
headed “Parental rights termination orders.” Subsection
(f) reads in its entirety,

															     “No
termination of parental rights may be ordered in such proceeding in
the absence of a determination, supported by evidence beyond a
reasonable doubt, including testimony of qualified expert
witnesses, that the continued custody of the child by the parent or
Indian custodian is likely to result in serious emotional or
physical damage to the child.” §1912(f). [ 4 ]

															The immediate inference to be drawn from the
statute’s structure is that subsections (e) and (f) work in
tandem with the rehabilitative efforts required by (d). Under
subsection (d), state authorities must attempt to provide
“remedial services and rehabilitative programs” aimed
at avoiding foster care placement or termination of parental
rights; (e) and (f), in turn, bar state authorities from ordering
foster care or terminating parental rights until these curative
efforts have failed and it is established that the child will
suffer “serious emotional or physical damage” if his or
her familial situation is not altered. Nothing in subsections (a)
through (d) suggests a limitation on the types of parental
relationships that are protected by any of the provisions of
§1912, and there is nothing in the structure of §1912
that would lead a reader to expect subsection (e) or (f) to
introduce any such qualification. Indeed, both subsections, in
their opening lines, refer back to the prior provisions of
§1912 with the phrase “in such proceeding.” This
language indicates, quite logically, that in actions where
subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) apply, (e) and (f) apply too. [
5 ]

															     All this, and still the
most telling textual evidence is yet to come: The text of the
subsection begins by announcing, “[n]o termination of
parental rights may be ordered” unless the specified
evidentiary showing is made. To repeat, a “termination of
parental rights” includes “any action resulting in the
termination of the parent-child relationship,” 25
U. S. C. §1903(1)(ii) (emphasis added), includ- ing
the relationship Birth Father, as an ICWA “parent,” has
with Baby Girl. The majority’s reading disregards the
Act’s sweeping definition of “termination of parental
rights,” which is not limited to terminations of custodial
relationships.

															     The entire foundation
of the majority’s argument that subsection (f) does not apply
is the lonely phrase “continued custody.” It simply
cannot bear the interpretive weight the majority would place on
it.

															     Because a primary
dictionary definition of “continued” is
“ ‘carried on or kept up without
cessation,’ ” ante, at 8 (brackets omitted), the
majority concludes that §1912(f) “does not apply in
cases where the Indian parent never had custody of the Indian
child,” ante, at 8. Emphasizing that Birth Father never had
physical custody or, under state law, legal custody of Baby Girl,
the majority finds the statute inapplicable here. Ante, at
10–11. But “literalness may strangle meaning.”
Utah Junk Co. v. Porter, 328 U. S. 39, 44 (1946) . See also
Robinson v. Shell Oil Co., 519 U. S. 337 –345 (1997)
(noting that a term that may “[a]t first blush” seem
unambiguous can prove otherwise when examined in the context of the
statute as a whole). [ 6 ] In
light of the structure of §1912, which indicates that
subsection (f) is applicable to the same actions to which
subsections (a) through (d) are applicable; the use of the phrase
“such proceeding[s]” at the start of subsection (f) to
reinforce this structural inference; and finally, the
provision’s explicit statement that it applies to
“termination of parental rights” proceedings, the
necessary conclusion is that the word “custody” does
not strictly denote a state-recognized custodial relationship. If
one refers back to the Act’s definitional section, this
conclusion is not surprising. Section 1903(1) includes “any
action resulting in the termination of the parent-child
relationship” within the meaning of “child custody
proceeding,” thereby belying any congressional intent to give
the term “custody” a narrow and exclusive definition
throughout the statute.

															     In keeping with
§1903(1) and the structure and language of §1912 overall,
the phrase “continued custody” is most sensibly read to
refer generally to the continuation of the parent-child
relationship that an ICWA “parent” has with his or her
child. A court applying §1912(f) where the parent does not
have pre-existing custody should, as Birth Father argues, determine
whether the party seeking ter- mination of parental rights has
established that the continuation of the parent-child relationship
will result in “serious emotional or physical damage to the
child.” [ 7 ]

															     The majority is willing
to assume, for the sake of argument, that Birth Father is a
“parent” within the meaning of ICWA. But the majority
fails to account for all that follows from that assumption. The
majority repeatedly passes over the term “termination of
parental rights” that, as defined by §1903, clearly
encompasses an action aimed at severing Birth Father’s
“parent-child relationship” with Baby Girl. The
majority chooses instead to focus on phrases not statutorily
defined that it then uses to exclude Birth Father from the benefits
of his parental status. When one must disregard a statute’s
use of terms that have been explicitly defined by Congress, that
should be a signal that one is distorting, rather than faithfully
reading, the law in question.

															B

															     The majority also
does not acknowledge the full impli- cations of its assumption that
there are some ICWA “parent[s]” to whom
§§1912(d) and (f) do not apply. Its dis- cussion focuses
on Birth Father’s particular actions, but nothing in the
majority’s reasoning limits its manufactured class of
semiprotected ICWA parents to biological fathers who failed to
support their child’s mother during pregnancy. Its logic
would apply equally to noncustodial fathers who have actively
participated in their child’s upbringing.

															     Consider an Indian
father who, though he has never had custody of his biological
child, visits her and pays all of his child support obligations. [
8 ] Suppose that, due to
deficiencies in the care the child received from her custodial
parent, the State placed the child with a foster family and
proposed her ultimate adoption by them. Clearly, the father’s
parental rights would have to be terminated before the adoption
could go forward. [ 9 ] On the
majority’s view, notwithstanding the fact that this father
would be a “parent” under ICWA, he would not receive
the benefit of either §1912(d) or §1912(f). Presumably
the court considering the adoption petition would have to apply
some standard to determine whether termination of his parental
rights was appropriate. But from whence would that standard
come?

															     Not from the statute
Congress drafted, according to the majority. The majority suggests
that it might come from state law. See ante, at 13, n. 8. But
it is incongruous to suppose that Congress intended a patchwork of
federal and state law to apply in termination of parental rights
proceedings. Congress enacted a statute aimed at protecting the
familial relationships between Indian parents and their children
because it concluded that state authorities “often failed to
recognize the essential tribal relations of Indian people and the
cultural and social standards prevailing in Indian communities and
families.” 25 U. S. C. §1901(5). It provided a
“minimum Federal standar[d],” §1902, for
termination of parental rights that is more demanding than the
showing of unfitness under a high “clear and convincing
evidence” standard that is the norm in the States, see 1 J.
Hollinger, Adoption Law and Practice §2.10 (2012); Santosky,
455 U. S., at 767–768.

															     While some States might
provide protections compar- able to §1912(d)’s required
remedial efforts and §1912(f)’s heightened standard for
termination of parental rights, many will provide less. There is no
reason to believe Congress wished to leave protection of the
parental rights of a subset of ICWA “parent[s]”
dependent on the happenstance of where a particular “child
custody proceeding” takes place. I would apply, as the
statute construed in its totality commands, the standards Congress
provided in §§1912(d) and (f) to the termination of all
ICWA “parent[s’]” parent-child relationships.

															II

															     The majority’s
textually strained and illogical reading of the statute might be
explicable, if not justified, if there were reason to believe that
it avoided anomalous results or furthered a clear congressional
policy. But neither of these conditions is present here.

															A

															     With respect to
§1912(d), the majority states that it would be
“unusual” to apply a rehabilitation requirement where a
natural parent has never had custody of his child. Ante, at 14. The
majority does not support this bare assertion, and in fact state
child welfare authorities can and do provide reunification services
for biological fathers who have not previously had custody of their
children. [ 10 ] And
notwithstanding the South Carolina Supreme Court’s im-
precise interpretation of the provision, see 398 S. C., at
647–648, 731 S. E. 2d, at 562, §1912(d) does not
require the prospective adoptive family to themselves undertake the
mandated rehabilitative efforts. Rather, it requires the party
seeking termination of parental rights to “satisfy the court
that active efforts have been made” to provide appropriate
remedial services.

															     In other words, the
prospective adoptive couple have to make an evidentiary showing,
not undertake person-to-person remedial outreach. The services
themselves might be attempted by the Indian child’s Tribe, a
state agency, or a private adoption agency. Such remedial efforts
are a familiar requirement of child welfare law, including fed-
eral child welfare policy. See 42 U. S. C.
§671(a)(15)(B) (requiring States receiving federal funds for
foster care and adoption assistance to make “reasonable
efforts . . . to preserve and reunify families”
prior to foster care placement or removal of a child from its
home).

															     There is nothing
“bizarre,” ante, at 14, about placing on the party
seeking to terminate a father’s parental rights the burden of
showing that the step is necessary as well as justified. “For
. . . natural parents, . . . the consequence of
an erroneous termination [of parental rights] is the unnecessary
destruction of their natural family.” Santosky, 455
U. S., at 766. In any event, the question is a nonissue in
this case given the family court’s finding that Birth Father
is “a fit and proper person to have custody of his
child” who “has demonstrated [his] ability to parent
effectively” and who possesses “unwavering love for
this child.” App. to Pet. for Cert. 128a (Sealed).
Petitioners cannot show that rehabilitative efforts have
“proved unsuccessful,” 25 U. S. C.
§1912(d), because Birth Father is not in need of
rehabilitation. [ 11 ]

															B

															     On a more general
level, the majority intimates that ICWA grants Birth Father an
undeserved windfall: in the majority’s words, an “ICWA
trump card” he can “play . . . at the
eleventh hour to override the mother’s decision and the
child’s best interests.” Ante, at 16. The implicit
argument is that Congress could not possibly have intended to
recognize a parent-child relationship between Birth Father and Baby
Girl that would have to be legally terminated (either by valid
consent or involuntary termination) before the adoption could
proceed.

															     But this supposed
anomaly is illusory. In fact, the law of at least 15 States did
precisely that at the time ICWA was passed. [ 12 ] And the law of a number of States still
does so. The State of Arizona, for example, requires that notice of
an adoption petition be given to all “potential
father[s]” and that they be informed of their “right to
seek custody.” Ariz. Rev. Stat.
§§8–106(G)–(J) (West Supp. 2012). In
Washington, an “alleged father[’s]” consent to
adoption is required absent the termination of his parental rights,
Wash. Rev. Code §§26.33.020(1), 26.33.160(1)(b) (2012);
and those rights may be terminated only “upon a showing by
clear, cogent, and convincing evidence” not only that
termination is in the best interest of the child and that the
father is withholding his consent to adoption contrary to
child’s best interests, but also that the father “has
failed to perform parental duties under circumstances showing a
substantial lack of regard for his parental obligations,”
§26.33.120(2). [ 13
]

															     Without doubt, laws
protecting biological fathers’ parental rights can
lead—even outside the context of ICWA—to outcomes that
are painful and distressing for both would-be adoptive families,
who lose a much wanted child, and children who must make a
difficult transition. See, e.g., In re Adoption of Tobias D.,
2012 Me. 45, ¶27, 40 A. 3d 990, 999 (recognizing that award of
custody of 2½-year-old child to biological father under
applicable state law once paternity is established will result in
the “difficult and pain- ful” necessity of
“removing the child from the only home he has ever
known”). On the other hand, these rules recognize that
biological fathers have a valid interest in a relationship with
their child. See supra, at 6. And children have a reciprocal
interest in knowing their biological parents. See Santosky, 455
U. S., at 760–761, n. 11 (describing the
foreclosure of a newborn child’s opportunity to “ever
know his natural parents” as a “los[s] [that] cannot be
measured”). These rules also reflect the understanding that
the biological bond between a parent and a child is a strong
foundation on which a stable and caring relationship may be built.
Many jurisdictions apply a custodial preference for a fit natural
parent over a party lacking this biological link. See, e.g.,
Ex parte Terry, 494 So. 2d 628, 632 (Ala. 1986); Appeal
of H. R., 581 A. 2d 1141, 1177 (D. C. 1990) (opinion
of Ferren, J.); Stuhr v. Stuhr, 240 Neb. 239, 245, 481 N. W.
2d 212, 216 (1992); In re Michael B., 80 N. Y. 2d 299,
309, 604 N. E. 2d 122, 127 (1992). Cf. Smith v. Organization
of Foster Families For Equality & Reform, 431 U. S. 816,
845 (1977) (distinguishing a natural parent’s “liberty
interest in family privacy,” which has its source “in
intrinsic human rights,” with a foster parent’s
parallel interest in his or her relationship with a child, which
has its “origins in an arrangement in which the State has
been a partner from the outset”). This preference is founded
in the “presumption that fit parents act in the best
interests of their children.” Troxel v. Granville, 530
U. S. 57, 68 (2000) (plurality opinion).
“ ‘[H]istorically [the law] has recognized that
natural bonds of affection [will] lead parents’ ”
to promote their child’s well-being. Ibid. (quoting Parham v.
J. R., 442 U. S. 584, 602 (1979) ).

															     Balancing the
legitimate interests of unwed biological fathers against the need
for stability in a child’s family situation is difficult, to
be sure, and States have, over the years, taken different
approaches to the problem. Some States, like South Carolina, have
opted to hew to the con- stitutional baseline established by this
Court’s prece- dents and do not require a biological
father’s consent to adoption unless he has provided financial
support during pregnancy. See Quilloin v. Walcott, 434 U. S.
246 –256 (1978); Lehr, 463 U. S., at 261. Other States,
how- ever, have decided to give the rights of biological fathers
more robust protection and to afford them consent rights on the
basis of their biological link to the child. At the time that ICWA
was passed, as noted, over one-fourth of States did so. See supra,
at 17–18.

															     ICWA, on a
straightforward reading of the statute, is consistent with the law
of those States that protected, and protect, birth fathers’
rights more vigorously. This reading can hardly be said to generate
an anomaly. ICWA, as all acknowledge, was “the product of
rising concern . . . [about] abusive child welfare
practices that resulted in the separation of large numbers of
Indian children from their families.” Holyfield, 490
U. S., at 32. It stands to reason that the Act would not
render the legal status of an Indian father’s relationship
with his biological child fragile, but would instead grant it a
degree of protection commensurate with the more robust state-law
standards. [ 14 ]

															C

															     The majority also
protests that a contrary result to the one it reaches would
interfere with the adoption of Indian children. Ante, at 14, 16.
This claim is the most perplexing of all. A central purpose of ICWA
is to “promote the stability and security of Indian
. . . families,” 25 U. S. C. §1902,
in part by countering the trend of placing “an alarmingly
high percentage of [Indian] children . . . in non-Indian
foster and adoptive homes and institutions.” §1901(4).
The Act accomplishes this goal by, first, protecting the familial
bonds of Indian parents and children, see supra, at 4–12;
and, second, establishing placement preferences should an adoption
take place, see §1915(a). ICWA does not interfere with the
adoption of Indian children except to the extent that it attempts
to avert the necessity of adoptive placement and makes adoptions of
Indian children by non-Indian families less likely.

															     The majority may
consider this scheme unwise. But no principle of construction
licenses a court to interpret a statute with a view to averting the
very consequences Congress expressly stated it was trying to bring
about. Instead, it is the “ ‘judicial duty to give
faithful meaning to the language Congress adopted in the light of
the evi- dent legislative purpose in enacting the law in
question.’ ” Graham County Soil and Water
Conservation Dist. v. United States ex rel. Wilson, 559
U. S. 280, 298 (2010) (quoting United States v. Bornstein, 423
U. S. 303, 310 (1976) ).

															     The majority further
claims that its reading is consistent with the
“primary” purpose of the Act, which in the
majority’s view was to prevent the dissolution of
“intact” Indian families. Ante, at 9–10. We may
not, however, give effect only to congressional goals we designate
“primary” while casting aside others classed as
“secondary”; we must apply the entire statute Congress
has written. While there are indications that central among
Congress’ concerns in enacting ICWA was the removal of Indian
children from homes in which Indian parents or other guardians had
custody of them, see, e.g., §§1901(4), 1902, Con- gress
also recognized that “there is no resource that is more vital
to the continued existence and integrity of Indian tribes than
their children,” §1901(3). As we observed in Holyfield,
ICWA protects not only Indian parents’ interests but also
those of Indian tribes. See 490 U. S., at 34, 52. A
tribe’s interest in its next generation of citizens is
adversely affected by the placement of Indian children in homes
with no connection to the tribe, whether or not those children were
initially in the custody of an Indian parent. [ 15 ]

															     Moreover, the
majority’s focus on “intact” families, ante, at
10, begs the question of what Congress set out to accomplish with
ICWA. In an ideal world, perhaps all parents would be perfect. They
would live up to their parental responsibilities by providing the
fullest possible financial and emotional support to their children.
They would never suffer mental health problems, lose their jobs,
struggle with substance dependency, or encounter any of the other
multitudinous personal crises that can make it difficult to meet
these responsibilities. In an ideal world parents would never
become estranged and leave their children caught in the middle. But
we do not live in such a world. Even happy families do not always
fit the custodial-parent mold for which the majority would reserve
IWCA’s substantive protections; unhappy families all too
often do not. They are families nonetheless. Congress understood as
much. ICWA’s definitions of “parent” and
“termination of parental rights” provided in §1903
sweep broadly. They should be honored.

															D

															     The majority does not
rely on the theory pressed by petitioners and the guardian ad litem
that the canon of constitutional avoidance compels the conclusion
that ICWA is inapplicable here. See Brief for Petitioners
43–51; Brief for Respondent Guardian Ad Litem 48–58. It
states instead that it finds the statute clear. [ 16 ] Ante, at 17. But the majority
nevertheless offers the suggestion that a contrary result would
create an equal protection problem. Ibid. Cf. Brief for Petitioners
44–47; Brief for Respondent Guardian Ad Litem
53–55.

															     It is difficult to make
sense of this suggestion in light of our precedents, which squarely
hold that classifications based on Indian tribal membership are not
impermissible racial classifications. See United States v.
Antelope, 430 U. S. 641 –647 (1977); Morton v. Mancari,
417 U. S. 535 –554 (1974). The majority’s
repeated, analytically unnecessary references to the fact that Baby
Girl is 3/256 Cherokee by ancestry do nothing to elucidate its
intimation that the statute may violate the Equal Protection Clause
as applied here. See ante, at 1, 6; see also ante, at 16 (stating
that ICWA “would put certain vulner- able children at a great
disadvantage solely because an ancestor—even a remote
one—was an Indian” (emphasis added)). I see no ground
for this Court to second-guess the membership requirements of
federally recognized Indian tribes, which are independent political
entities. See Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez, 436 U. S. 49,
72, n. 32 (1978) . I am particularly averse to doing so when the
Federal Government requires Indian tribes, as a prerequisite for
official recognition, to make “descen[t] from a historical
Indian tribe” a condition of membership. 25 CFR §83.7(e)
(2012).

															     The majority’s
treatment of this issue, in the end, does no more than create a
lingering mood of disapprobation of the criteria for membership
adopted by the Cherokee Nation that, in turn, make Baby Girl an
“Indian child” under the statute. Its hints at lurking
constitutional problems are, by its own account, irrelevant to its
statutory analysis, and accordingly need not detain us any
longer.

															III

															     Because I would
affirm the South Carolina Supreme Court on the ground that
§1912 bars the termination of Birth Father’s parental
rights, I would not reach the question of the applicability of the
adoptive placement preferences of §1915. I note, however, that
the majority does not and cannot foreclose the possibility that on
remand, Baby Girl’s paternal grandparents or other members of
the Cherokee Nation may formally petition for adoption of Baby
Girl. If these parties do so, and if on remand Birth Father’s
parental rights are terminated so that an adoption becomes
possible, they will then be entitled to consideration under the
order of preference established in §1915. The majority cannot
rule prospectively that §1915 would not apply to an adoption
petition that has not yet been filed. Indeed, the statute applies
“[i]n any adoptive placement of an Indian child under State
law,” 25 U. S. C. §1915(a) (emphasis added),
and contains no temporal qualifications. It would indeed be an odd
result for this Court, in the name of the child’s best in-
terests, cf. ante, at 15, to purport to exclude from the pro-
ceedings possible custodians for Baby Girl, such as her paternal
grandparents, who may have well-established relationships with
her.

															*  *  *

															     The majority opinion
turns §1912 upside down, reading it from bottom to top in
order to reach a conclusion that is manifestly contrary to
Congress’ express purpose in enacting ICWA: preserving the
familial bonds between Indian parents and their children and, more
broadly, Indian tribes’ relationships with the future
citizens who are “vital to [their] continued existence and
integrity.” §1901(3).

															     The majority casts
Birth Father as responsible for the painful circumstances in this
case, suggesting that he intervened “at the eleventh hour to
override the mother’s decision and the child’s best
interests,” ante, at 16. I have no wish to minimize the
trauma of removing a 27-month-old child from her adoptive family.
It bears remembering, however, that Birth Father took action to
assert his parental rights when Baby Girl was four months old, as
soon as he learned of the impending adoption. As the South Carolina
Supreme Court recognized, “ ‘[h]ad the mandate of
. . . ICWA been followed [in 2010], . . . much
potential anguish might have been avoided[;] and in any case the
law cannot be applied so as automatically to “reward those
who obtain custody, whether lawfully or otherwise, and maintain it
during any ensuing (and protracted)
litigation.” ’ ” 398 S. C., at
652, 731 S. E. 2d, at 564 (quoting Holyfield, 490 U. S.,
at 53–54).

															     The majority’s
hollow literalism distorts the statute and ignores Congress’
purpose in order to rectify a perceived wrong that, while
heartbreaking at the time, was a correct application of federal law
and that in any case cannot be undone. Baby Girl has now resided
with her father for 18 months. However difficult it must have been
for her to leave Adoptive Couple’s home when she was just
over 2 years old, it will be equally devastating now if, at the age
of 3½, she is again removed from her home and sent to live
halfway across the country. Such a fate is not foreordained, of
course. But it can be said with certainty that the anguish this
case has caused will only be compounded by today’s
decision.

															     I believe that the
South Carolina Supreme Court’s judgment was correct, and I
would affirm it. I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 For this reason, the
South Carolina Supreme Court held that Birth Father did not give
valid consent to Baby Girl’s adoption when, four months after
her birth, he signed papers stating that he accepted service and
was not contesting the adoption. See 398 S. C. 625,
645–646, 731 S. E. 2d 550, 561 (2012). See also ante, at
5. Petitioners do not challenge this aspect of the South Carolina
court’s holding.
2
 Petitioners concede that,
assuming Birth Father is a “parent” under ICWA, the
notice and counsel provisions of 25 U. S. C.
§§1912(a) and (b) apply to him. See Tr. of Oral Arg.
13.
3
 The majority’s
discussion of §1912(d) repeatedly references Birth
Father’s purported “abandon[ment]” of Baby Girl,
ante, at 12, 13, n. 8, 14, and it contends that its holding
with regard to this provision is limited to such circumstances, see
ante, at 13, n. 8; see also ante, at 1 (Breyer, J.,
concurring). While I would welcome any limitations on the
majority’s holding given that it is contrary to the language
and purpose of the statute, the majority never explains either the
textual basis or the precise scope of its
“abandon[ment]” limitation. I expect that the
majority’s inexact use of the term
“abandon[ment]” will sow confusion, because it is a
commonly used term of art in state family law that does not have a
uniform meaning from State to State. See generally 1 J. Hollinger,
Adoption Law and Practice §4.04[1][a][ii] (2012) (discussing
various state-law standards for establishing parental abandonment
ofa child).
4
 The full text of
subsection (e) is as follows: “No foster care placement may
be ordered in such proceeding inthe absence of a determination,
supported by clear and convincing evi-dence, including testimony of
qualified expert witnesses, that the continued custody of the child
by the parent or Indian custodian is likely to result in serious
emotional or physical damage to the child.”
§1912(e).
5
 For these reasons, I
reject the argument advanced by the United States that subsection
(d) applies in the circumstances of this case but subsection (f)
does not. See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 24–26.
The United States’ position is contrary to the interrelated
nature of §§1912(d), (e), and (f). Under the reading that
the United States proposes, in a case such as this one the curative
provision would stand alone; ICWA would provide no evidentiary or
substantive standards by which to measure whether foster care
placement or termination of parental rights could be ordered in the
event that rehabilitative efforts did not succeed. Such a scheme
would be oddly incomplete.
6
 The majority’s
interpretation is unpersuasive even if one focuses exclusively on
the phrase “continued custody” because, as Justice
Scalia explains, ante, at 1 (dissenting opinion), nothing about the
adjective “continued” mandates the retrospective,
rather than prospective, application of §1912(f)’s
standard.
7
 The majority overlooks
Birth Father’s principal arguments when it dismisses his
reading of §1912(f) as “nonsensical.” Ante, at 8.
He does argue that if one accepts petitioners’ view that it
is impossible to make a determination of likely harm when a parent
lacks custody, then the consequence would be that
“ ‘[n]o termination of parental rights may be
ordered.’ ” Brief for Respondent Birth Father 39
(quoting §1912(f)). But Birth Father’s primary arguments
assume that it is indeed possible to make a determination of likely
harm in the circumstances of this case, and that parental rights
can be terminated if §1912(f) is met. See id., at
40–42.
8
 The majority attempts to
minimize the consequences of its holding by asserting that the
parent-child relationships of noncustodial fathers with visitation
rights will be at stake in an ICWA proceeding in only“a
relatively small class of cases.” Ante, at 13, n. 8. But
it offers no support for this assertion, beyond speculating that
there will not be many fathers affected by its interpretation of
§1912(d) because it is qualified by an
“abandon[ment]” limitation. Ibid. Tellingly, the
major-ity has nothing to say about §1912(f), despite the fact
that its interpretation of that provision is not limited in a
similar way. In any event, this example by no means exhausts the
class of semiprotected ICWA parents that the majority’s
opinion creates. It also includes, for example, biological fathers
who have not yet established a relationship with their child
because the child’s mother never informed them of the
pregnancy, see, e.g., In re Termination of Parental Rights of
Biological Parents of Baby Boy W., 1999 OK 74, 988 P. 2d 1270,
told them falsely that the pregnancy ended in miscarriage or
termination, see, e.g., A Child’s Hope, LLC v. Doe, 178
N. C. App. 96, 630 S. E. 2d 673 (2006), or otherwise
obstructed the father’s involvement in the child’s
life, see, e.g., In re Baby Girl W., 728 S. W. 2d 545 (Mo.
App. 1987) (birth mother moved and did not inform father of her
whereabouts); In re Petition of Doe, 159 Ill. 2d 347, 638
N. E. 2d 181 (1994) (father paid pregnancy expenses until
birth mother cut off contact with him and told him that their child
had died shortly after birth). And it includes biological fathers
who did not contribute to pregnancy expenses because they were
unable to do so, whether because the father lacked sufficient
means, the expenses were covered by a third party, or the birth
mother did not pass on the relevant bills. See, e.g., In re
Adoption of B. V., 2001 UT App 290, ¶¶ 24–31, 33
P. 3d 1083, 1087–1088. The majority expresses the
concern that my reading of the statute would produce
“far-reaching consequences,” because “even a
sperm donor” would be entitled to ICWA’s protections.
Ante, at 13–14, n. 8. If there are any examples of women who
go to the trouble and expense of artificial insemination and then
carry the child to term, only to put the child up for adoption or
be found so unfit as mothers that state authorities attempt an
involuntary adoptive placement—thereby necessitating
termination of the parental rights of the sperm donor
father—the ma-jority does not cite them. As between a
possibly overinclusive in-terpretation of the statute that covers
this unlikely class of cases, and the majority’s
underinclusive interpretation that has the very real consequence of
denying ICWA’s protections to all noncustodial biological
fathers, it is surely the majority’s reading that is contrary
to ICWA’s design.
9
 With a few exceptions not
relevant here, before a final decree of adoption may be entered,
one of two things must happen: “the biological parents must
either voluntarily relinquish their parental rights or have their
rights involuntarily terminated.” 2A. Haralambie, Handling
Child Custody, Abuse and Adoption Cases §14.1,
pp.764–765 (3d ed. 2009) (footnote omitted).
10  See,
e.g., Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code Ann. §361.5(a) (West Supp.
2013); Francisco G. v. Superior Court, 91 Cal. App. 4th 586, 596,
110 Cal. Rptr. 2d 679, 687 (2001) (stating that “the juvenile
court ‘may’ order reunification services for a
biological father if the court determines that the services will
benefit the child”); In re T. B. W., 312 Ga. App. 733,
734–735, 719 S. E. 2d 589, 591 (2011) (describing
reunification services provided to biological father beginning when
“he had yet to establish his paternity” under state
law, including efforts to facilitate visitation and involving
father in family “ ‘team
meetings’ ”); In re Guardianship of DMH, 161
N. J. 365, 391–394, 736 A. 2d 1261, 1275–1276
(1999) (discussing what constitutes “reasonable
efforts” to reunify a noncustodial biological father with his
children in accordance with New Jersey statutory requirements);
In re Bernard T., 319 S. W. 3d 586, 600 (Tenn. 2010)
(stating that “in appropriate circumstances, the Department
[of Children’s Services] must make reasonable efforts to
reunite a child with his or her biological parents or legal parents
or even with the child’s putative biological
father”).
11  The
majority’s concerns about what might happen if no state or
tribal authority stepped in to provide remedial services are
therefore irrelevant here. Ante, at 14, n. 9. But as a general
matter, if a parent has rights that are an obstacle to an adoption,
the state- and federal-law safeguards of those rights must be
honored, irrespective of pro-spective adoptive parents’
understandable and valid desire to see the adoption finalized.
“We must remember that the purpose of an adoption is to
provide a home for a child, not a child for a home.”
In re Petition of Doe, 159 Ill. 2d, at 368, 638 N. E. 2d,
at 190 (Heiple, J,. supplemental opinion supporting denial of
rehearing).
12  See
Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §8–106(A)(1)(c) (1974–1983
West Supp.) (consent of both natural parents necessary); Iowa Code
§§600.3(2), 600A.2, 600A.8 (1977) (same); Ill. Comp.
Stat., ch. 40, §1510 (West 1977) (same); Nev. Rev. Stat.
§§127.040, 127.090 (1971) (same); R. I. Gen. Laws
§§15–7–5, 15–7–7 (Bobbs-Merrill
1970) (same); Conn. Gen. Stat. §§45–61d,
45–61i(b)(2) (1979) (natural father’s consent required
if paternity acknowledged or judicially established); Fla. Stat.
§63.062 (1979) (same); Ore. Rev. Stat. §§109.092,
109.312 (1975) (same); S. D. Codified Laws
§§25–6–1.1, 25–6–4 (Allen Smith
1976) (natural father’s consent required if mother identifies
him or if paternity is judicially established); Ky. Rev. Stat. Ann.
§§199.500, 199.607 (Bobbs-Merrill Supp. 1980) (same);
Ala. Code §26–10–3 (Michie 1977) (natural
father’s consent required when paternity judicially
established); Minn. Stat. §§259.24(a), 259.26(3)(a), (e),
(f), 259.261 (1978) (natural father’s consent required when
identified on birth certificate, paternity judi-cially established,
or paternity asserted by affidavit); N. H. Rev. Stat. Ann.
§170–B:5(I)(d) (1977) (natural father’s consent
required if he files notice of intent to claim paternity within set
time from notice of prospective adoption); Wash. Rev. Code
§§26.32.040(5), 26.32.085 (1976) (natural father’s
consent required if paternity acknowledged, judicially established,
or he files notice of intent to claim paternity within set time
from notice of prospective adoption); W. Va. Code Ann.
§48–4–1 (Michie Supp. 1979) (natural
father’s consent required if father admits pater-nity by any
means). See also Del. Code Ann., Tit. 13, §908(2) (Michie
Supp. 1980) (natural father’s consent required unless court
finds that dispensing with consent requirement is in best interests
of the child); Wyo. Stat. Ann. §§1–22–108,
1–22–109 (Michie 1988) (same).
13  See
also, e.g., Nev. Rev. Stat. §§127.040(1)(a), 128.150
(2011).
14  It
bears emphasizing that the ICWA standard for termination of
parental rights of which Birth Father claims the benefit is more
protective than, but not out of step with, the clear and convincing
standard generally applied in state courts when termination of
parental rightsis sought. Birth Father does not claim that he is
entitled to custodyof Baby Girl unless petitioners can satisfy the
demanding standard of §1912(f). See Brief for Respondent Birth
Father 40, n. 15. The question of custody would be analyzed
independently, as it was by the South Carolina Supreme Court. Of
course, it will often be the case that cus-tody is subsequently
granted to a child’s fit parent, consistent withthe
presumption that a natural parent will act in the best interests of
his child. See supra, at 19–20.
15  Birth
Father is a registered member of the Cherokee Nation, a fact of
which Birth Mother was aware at the time of her pregnancy and of
which she informed her attorney. See 398 S. C. 625,
632–633, 731 S. E. 2d 550, 554 (2012).
16  Justice Thomas concurs in the
majority’s interpretation because, although he finds the
statute susceptible of more than one plausible reading, he believes
that the majority’s reading avoids “significant
constitutional problems” concerning whether ICWA exceeds
Congress’ authority under the Indian Commerce Clause. Ante,
at 1, 3–12. No party advanced this argument, and it is
inconsistent with this Court’s precedents holding that
Congress has “broad general powers to leg-islate in respect
to Indian tribes, powers that we have consistently described as
plenary and exclusive,” founded not only on the Indian
Commerce Clause but also the Treaty Clause. United States v. Lara,
–201 (2004) (internal quotation marks omitted).


