::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-079
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 744 (2013)
::decision_name::  United States v. Windsor
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–307

															_________________

															UNITED STATES, PETITIONER v. EDITH SCHLAIN
WINDSOR, in her capacity as executor of the ESTATE OF THEA CLARA
SPYER, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 26, 2013]

															

															     Justice Alito, with
whom Justice Thomas joins as to Parts II and III, dissenting.

															     Our Nation is engaged
in a heated debate about same-sex marriage. That debate is, at
bottom, about the nature of the institution of marriage. Respondent
Edith Windsor, supported by the United States, asks this Court to
intervene in that debate, and although she couches her argument in
different terms, what she seeks is a holding that enshrines in the
Constitution a particular understanding of marriage under which the
sex of the partners makes no difference. The Constitution, however,
does not dictate that choice. It leaves the choice to the people,
acting through their elected representatives at both the federal
and state levels. I would therefore hold that Congress did not
violate Windsor’s constitutional rights by enacting §3
of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), 110Stat. 2419, which defines
the meaning of marriage under federal statutes that either confer
upon married persons cer- tain federal benefits or impose upon them
certain federal obligations.

															I

															     I turn first to the
question of standing. In my view, the

															United States clearly is not a proper
petitioner in this case. The United States does not ask us to
overturn the judgment of the court below or to alter that judgment
in any way. Quite to the contrary, the United States argues
emphatically in favor of the correctness of that judgment. We have
never before reviewed a decision at the sole behest of a party that
took such a position, and to do so would be to render an advisory
opinion, in violation of Article III’s dictates. For the
reasons given in Justice Scalia’s dissent, I do not find the
Court’s arguments to the contrary to be persuasive.

															     Whether the
Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group of the House of Representatives
(BLAG) has standing to petition is a much more difficult question.
It is also a signifi- cantly closer question than whether the
intervenors in Hol- lingsworth v. Perry, ante,
p. ___ —which the Court also decides
today—have standing to appeal. It is remarkable that the
Court has simultaneously decided that the United States, which
“receive[d] all that [it] ha[d] sought” below, Deposit
Guaranty Nat. Bank v. Roper, 445 U. S. 326, 333 (1980) , is a
proper petitioner in this case but that the intervenors in
Hollingsworth, who represent the party that lost in the lower
court, are not. In my view, both the Hollingsworth intervenors and
BLAG have standing. [ 1 ]

															     A party invoking the
Court’s authority has a sufficient stake to permit it to
appeal when it has “ ‘suffered an injury in
fact’ that is caused by ‘the conduct complained
of’ and that ‘will be redressed by a favorable
decision.’ ” Camreta v. Greene, 563 U. S.
___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 5) (quoting Lujan v. Defenders of
Wildlife, 504 U. S. 555 –561 (1992)). In the present case,
the House of Representatives, which has authorized BLAG to
represent its interests in this matter, [ 2 ] suffered just such an injury.

															     In INS v. Chadha, 462
U. S. 919 (1983) , the Court held that the two Houses of
Congress were “proper parties” to file a petition in
defense of the constitutionality of the one-house veto statute,
id., at 930, n. 5 (internal quota- tion marks omitted).
Accordingly, the Court granted and decided petitions by both the
Senate and the House, in addition to the Executive’s
petition. Id., at 919, n. *. That the two Houses had standing
to petition is not surprising: The Court of Appeals’ decision
in Chadha, by holding the one-house veto to be unconstitutional,
had limited Congress’ power to legislate. In discussing
Article III standing, the Court suggested that Congress suffered a
similar injury whenever federal legislation it had passed was
struck down, noting that it had “long held that Congress is
the proper party to defend the validity of a statute when an agency
of government, as a defendant charged with enforcing the statute,
agrees with plaintiffs that the statute is inapplicable or
unconstitutional.” Id., at 940.

															     The United States
attempts to distinguish Chadha on the ground that it
“involved an unusual statute that vested the House and the
Senate themselves each with special procedural rights—namely,
the right effectively to veto Executive action.” Brief for
United States (jurisdiction) 36. But that is a distinction without
a difference: just as the Court of Appeals decision that the Chadha
Court affirmed impaired Congress’ power by striking down the
one-house veto, so the Second Circuit’s decision here impairs
Congress’ legislative power by striking down an Act of
Congress. The United States has not explained why the fact that the
impairment at issue in Chadha was “special” or
“procedural” has any relevance to whether Congress
suffered an injury. Indeed, because legislating is Congress’
central function, any impairment of that function is a more
grievous injury than the impairment of a procedural add-on.

															     The Court’s
decision in Coleman v. Miller, 307 U. S. 433 (1939) , bolsters
this conclusion. In Coleman, we held that a group of state senators
had standing to challenge a lower court decision approving the
procedures used to ratify an amendment to the Federal Constitution.
We reasoned that the senators’ votes—which would
otherwise have carried the day—were nullified by that action.
See id., at 438 (“Here, the plaintiffs include twenty
senators, whose votes against ratification have been overridden and
virtually held for naught although if they are right in their
contentions their votes would have been sufficient to defeat
ratification. We think that these senators have a plain, direct and
adequate interest in maintaining the ef- fectiveness of their
votes”); id., at 446 (“[W]e find no departure from
principle in recognizing in the instant case that at least the
twenty senators whose votes, if their contention were sustained,
would have been sufficient to defeat the resolution ratifying the
proposed constitutional amendment, have an interest in the
controversy which, treated by the state court as a basis for
entertaining and deciding the federal questions, is sufficient to
give the Court jurisdiction to review that decision”). By
striking down §3 of DOMA as unconstitutional, the Second
Circuit effectively “held for naught” an Act of
Congress. Just as the state-senator-petitioners in Coleman were
necessary parties to the amendment’s ratification, the House
of Representatives was a necessary party to DOMA’s passage;
indeed, the House’s vote would have been sufficient to
prevent DOMA’s repeal if the Court had not chosen to execute
that repeal judicially.

															     Both the United States
and the Court-appointed amicus err in arguing that Raines v. Byrd,
521 U. S. 811 (1997) , is to the contrary. In that case, the Court
held that Members of Congress who had voted “nay” to
the Line Item Veto Act did not have standing to challenge that
statute in federal court. Raines is inapposite for two reasons.
First, Raines dealt with individual Members of Congress and
specifically pointed to the individual Members’ lack of
institutional endorsement as a sign of their standing problem:
“We attach some importance to the fact that appellees have
not been authorized to represent their respective Houses of
Congress in this action, and indeed both Houses actively oppose
their suit.” Id., at 829; see also ibid., n. 10 (citing
cases to the effect that “members of collegial bodies do not
have standing to perfect an appeal the body itself has declined to
take” (internal quotation marks omitted)).

															     Second, the Members in
Raines—unlike the state senators in Coleman—were not
the pivotal figures whose votes would have caused the Act to fail
absent some challenged action. Indeed, it is telling that Raines
characterized Coleman as standing “for the proposition that
legislators whose votes would have been sufficient to defeat (or
enact) a specific legislative Act have standing to sue if that
legislative action goes into effect (or does not go into effect),
on the ground that their votes have been completely
nullified.” 521 U. S., at 823. Here, by contrast, passage by
the House was needed for DOMA to become law. U. S. Const., Art. I,
§7 (bicameralism and presentment requirements for
legislation).

															     I appreciate the
argument that the Constitution confers on the President alone the
authority to defend federal law in litigation, but in my view, as I
have explained, that argument is contrary to the Court’s
holding in Chadha, and it is certainly contrary to the Chadha
Court’s endorsement of the principle that “Congress is
the proper party to defend the validity of a statute” when
the Executive refuses to do so on constitutional grounds. 462
U. S., at 940. See also 2 U. S. C. §288h(7)
(Senate Legal Counsel shall defend the constitutionality of Acts of
Congress when placed in issue). [ 3 ] Accordingly, in the narrow category of cases in which
a court strikes down an Act of Congress and the Executive declines
to defend the Act, Congress both has standing to defend the
undefended statute and is a proper party to do so.

															II

															     Windsor and the
United States argue that §3 of DOMA violates the equal
protection principles that the Court has found in the Fifth
Amendment’s Due Process Clause. See Brief for Respondent
Windsor (merits) 17–62; Brief for United States (merits)
16–54; cf. Bolling v. Sharpe, 347 U. S. 497 (1954) . The
Court rests its holding on related arguments. See ante, at
24–25.

															     Same-sex marriage
presents a highly emotional and important question of public
policy—but not a difficult ques- tion of constitutional law.
The Constitution does not

															guarantee the right to enter into a same-sex
marriage. Indeed, no provision of the Constitution speaks to the
issue.

															     The Court has sometimes
found the Due Process Clauses to have a substantive component that
guarantees liber- ties beyond the absence of physical restraint.
And the Court’s holding that “DOMA is unconstitutional
as a dep- rivation of the liberty of the person protected by the
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution,” ante, at 25, suggests
that substantive due process may partially underlie the
Court’s decision today. But it is well established that any
“substantive” component to the Due Process Clause
protects only “those fundamental rights and lib- erties which
are, objectively, ‘deeply rooted in this Nation’s
history and tradition,’ ” Washington v.
Glucksberg, 521 U. S. 702 –721 (1997); Snyder v.
Massachusetts, 291 U. S. 97, 105 (1934) (referring to
fundamental rights as those that are so “rooted in the
traditions and conscience of our people as to be ranked as
fundamental”), as well as “ ‘implicit in the
concept of ordered liberty,’ such that ‘neither liberty
nor justice would exist if they were
sacrificed.’ ” Glucksberg, supra, at 721 (quoting
Palko v. Connecticut, 302 U. S. 319 –326 (1937)).

															     It is beyond dispute
that the right to same-sex marriage is not deeply rooted in this
Nation’s history and tradition. In this country, no State
permitted same-sex marriage until the Massachusetts Supreme
Judicial Court held in 2003 that limiting marriage to opposite-sex
couples violated the State Constitution. See Goodridge v.
Department of Public Health, 440 Mass. 309, 798 N. E. 2d
941. Nor is the right to same-sex marriage deeply rooted in the
traditions of other nations. No country allowed same-sex couples to
marry until the Netherlands did so in 2000. [ 4 ]

															     What Windsor and the
United States seek, therefore, is not the protection of a deeply
rooted right but the recognition of a very new right, and they seek
this innovation not from a legislative body elected by the people,
but from unelected judges. Faced with such a request, judges have
cause for both caution and humility.

															     The family is an
ancient and universal human institution. Family structure reflects
the characteristics of a civilization, and changes in family
structure and in the popular understanding of marriage and the
family can have profound effects. Past changes in the understand-
ing of marriage—for example, the gradual ascendance of the
idea that romantic love is a prerequisite to marriage—have
had far-reaching consequences. But the process by which such
consequences come about is complex, involving the interaction of
numerous factors, and tends to occur over an extended period of
time.

															     We can expect something
similar to take place if same-sex marriage becomes widely accepted.
The long-term consequences of this change are not now known and are
unlikely to be ascertainable for some time to come. [ 5 ] There are those who think that allowing
same-sex marriage will seriously undermine the institution of
marriage. See, e.g., S. Girgis, R. Anderson, & R. George, What
is Marriage? Man and Woman: A Defense 53–58 (2012); Finnis,
Marriage: A Basic and Exigent Good, 91 The Monist 388, 398

															(2008). [ 6
] Others think that recognition of same-sex marriage will fortify a
now-shaky institution. See, e.g., A. Sullivan, Virtually Normal: An
Argument About Homosexuality 202–203 (1996); J. Rauch, Gay
Marriage: Why It Is Good for Gays, Good for Straights, and Good for
Amer- ica 94 (2004).

															     At present, no
one—including social scientists, philosophers, and
historians—can predict with any certainty what the long-term
ramifications of widespread acceptance of same-sex marriage will
be. And judges are

															certainly not equipped to make such an
assessment. The Members of this Court have the authority and the
responsibility to interpret and apply the Constitution. Thus, if
the Constitution contained a provision guaranteeing the right to
marry a person of the same sex, it would be our duty to enforce
that right. But the Constitution simply does not speak to the issue
of same-sex marriage. In our system of government, ultimate
sovereignty rests with the people, and the people have the right to
control their own destiny. Any change on a question so fundamental
should be made by the people through their elected officials.

															III

															     Perhaps because they
cannot show that same-sex marriage is a fundamental right under our
Constitution, Windsor and the United States couch their arguments
in equal protection terms. They argue that §3 of DOMA
discriminates on the basis of sexual orientation, that
classifications based on sexual orientation should trigger a form
of “heightened” scrutiny, and that §3 cannot
survive such scrutiny. They further maintain that the governmental
interests that §3 purports to serve are not sufficiently
important and that it has not been adequately shown that §3
serves those interests very well. The Court’s holding, too,
seems to rest on “the equal protection guarantee of the
Fourteenth Amendment,” ante, at 25—although the Court
is careful not to adopt most of Windsor’s and the United
States’ argument.

															     In my view, the
approach that Windsor and the United States advocate is misguided.
Our equal protection frame- work, upon which Windsor and the United
States rely, is a judicial construct that provides a useful
mechanism for analyzing a certain universe of equal protection
cases. But that framework is ill suited for use in evaluating the
constitutionality of laws based on the traditional understanding of
marriage, which fundamentally turn on what marriage is.

															     Underlying our equal
protection jurisprudence is the central notion that “[a]
classification ‘must be reasonable, not arbitrary, and must
rest upon some ground of difference having a fair and substantial
relation to the object of the legislation, so that all persons
similarly circumstanced shall be treated alike.’ ”
Reed v. Reed, 404 U. S. 71, 76 (1971) (quoting F. S. Royter
Guano Co. v. Virginia, 253 U. S. 412, 415 (1920) ). The modern
tiers of scrutiny—on which Windsor and the United States rely
so heavily—are a heuristic to help judges determine when
classifications have that “fair and substantial relation to
the object of the legislation.” Reed, supra, at 76.

															     So, for example, those
classifications subject to strict scrutiny—i.e.,
classifications that must be “narrowly tailored” to
achieve a “compelling” government interest, Parents
Involved in Community Schools v. Seattle School Dist. No. 1, 551
U. S. 701, 720 (2007) (internal quotation marks
omitted)—are those that are “so seldom relevant to the
achievement of any legitimate state interest that laws grounded in
such considerations are deemed to reflect prejudice and
antipathy.” Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, Inc., 473
U. S. 432, 440 (1985) ; cf. id., at 452–453 (Stevens,
J., concurring) (“It would be utterly irrational to limit the
franchise on the basis of height or weight; it is equally invalid
to limit it on the basis of skin color. None of these attributes
has any bearing at all on the citizen’s willingness or
ability to exercise that civil right”).

															     In contrast, those
characteristics subject to so-called intermediate
scrutiny—i.e., those classifications that must be
“ ‘substantially related’ ” to
the achievement of “im- portant governmental
objective[s],” United States v. Virginia, 518 U. S. 515,
524 (1996) ; id., at 567 (Scalia, J., dissenting)—are those
that are sometimes relevant considerations to be taken into account
by legislators, but “generally provid[e] no sensible ground
for different treatment,” Cleburne, supra, at 440. For
example, the Court has held that statutory rape laws that
criminalize sexual intercourse with a woman under the age of 18
years, but place no similar liability on partners of underage men,
are grounded in the very real distinction that “young men and
young women are not similarly situated with respect to the problems
and the risks of sexual intercourse.” Michael M. v. Superior
Court, Sonoma Cty., 450 U. S. 464, 471 (1981) (plurality
opnion). The plurality reasoned that “[o]nly women may become
pregnant, and they suffer disproportionately the profound physical,
emotional, and psychological consequences of sexual
activity.” Ibid. In other contexts, however, the Court has
found that classifications based on gender are
“arbitrary,” Reed, supra, at 76, and based on
“outmoded notions of the relative capabilities of men and
women,” Cleburne, supra, at 441, as when a State provides
that a man must always be preferred to an equally qualified woman
when both seek to administer the estate of a deceased party, see
Reed, supra, at 76–77.

															     Finally, so-called
rational-basis review applies to classifications based on
“distinguishing characteristics relevant to interests the
State has the authority to implement.” Cleburne, supra, at
441. We have long recognized that “the equal protection of
the laws must coexist with the practical necessity that most
legislation classifies for one purpose or another, with resulting
disadvantages to various groups or persons.” Romer v. Evans,
517 U. S. 620, 631 (1996) . As a result, in rational-basis
cases, where the court does not view the classification at issue as
“inher- ently suspect,” Adarand Constructors, Inc. v.
Peña, 515 U. S. 200, 218 (1995) (internal quotation
marks omitted), “the courts have been very reluctant, as they
should be in our federal system and with our respect for the
separation of powers, to closely scrutinize legislative choices as
to whether, how, and to what extent those interests should be
pursued.” Cleburne, supra, at 441–442.

															     In asking the Court to
determine that §3 of DOMA is subject to and violates
heightened scrutiny, Windsor and the United States thus ask us to
rule that the presence of two members of the opposite sex is as
rationally related to marriage as white skin is to voting or a
Y-chromosome is to the ability to administer an estate. That is a
striking request and one that unelected judges should pause before
granting. Acceptance of the argument would cast all those who cling
to traditional beliefs about the nature of marriage in the role of
bigots or superstitious fools.

															     By asking the Court to
strike down DOMA as not satisfying some form of heightened
scrutiny, Windsor and the United States are really seeking to have
the Court resolve a debate between two competing views of
marriage.

															     The first and older
view, which I will call the “tradi- tional” or
“conjugal” view, sees marriage as an intrinsically
opposite-sex institution. BLAG notes that virtually every culture,
including many not influenced by the Abrahamic religions, has
limited marriage to people of the opposite sex. Brief for
Respondent BLAG (merits) 2 (citing Hernandez v. Robles, 7
N. Y. 3d 338, 361, 855 N. E. 2d 1, 8 (2006) (“Until
a few decades ago, it was an accepted truth for almost everyone who
ever lived, in any society in which marriage existed, that there
could be marriages only between participants of different
sex”)). And BLAG attempts to explain this phenomenon by
arguing that the institution of marriage was created for the
purpose of channeling heterosexual intercourse into a structure
that supports child rearing. Brief for Respondent BLAG 44–46,
49. Others explain the basis for the institution in more
philosophical terms. They argue that marriage is essentially the
solemnizing of a comprehensive, exclusive, permanent union that is
intrinsically ordered to producing new life, even if it does not
always do so. See, e.g., Girgis, Anderson, & George, What is
Marriage? Man and Woman: A Defense, at 23–28. While modern
cultural changes have weakened the link between marriage and
procreation in the popular mind, there is no doubt that, throughout
human history and across many cultures, marriage has been viewed as
an exclusively opposite-sex institution and as one inextricably
linked to procreation and biological kinship.

															     The other, newer view
is what I will call the “consent-based” vision of
marriage, a vision that primarily defines marriage as the
solemnization of mutual commitment—marked by strong emotional
attachment and sexual attraction—between two persons. At
least as it applies to heterosexual couples, this view of marriage
now plays a very prominent role in the popular understanding of the
institution. Indeed, our popular culture is infused with this
understanding of marriage. Proponents of same-sex marriage argue
that because gender differentiation is not relevant to this vision,
the exclusion of same-sex couples from the institution of marriage
is rank discrimination.

															     The Constitution does
not codify either of these views of marriage (although I suspect it
would have been hard at the time of the adoption of the
Constitution or the Fifth Amendment to find Americans who did not
take the traditional view for granted). The silence of the
Constitution on this question should be enough to end the matter as
far as the judiciary is concerned. Yet, Windsor and the United
States implicitly ask us to endorse the consent-based view of
marriage and to reject the traditional view, thereby arrogating to
ourselves the power to decide a question that philosophers,
historians, social scientists, and theologians are better qualified
to explore. [ 7 ] Because our
consti- tutional order assigns the resolution of questions of this
nature to the people, I would not presume to en- shrine either
vision of marriage in our constitutional jurisprudence.

															

															     Legislatures, however,
have little choice but to decide between the two views. We have
long made clear that neither the political branches of the Federal
Government nor state governments are required to be neutral between
competing visions of the good, provided that the vision of the good
that they adopt is not countermanded by the Constitution. See,
e.g., Rust v. Sullivan, 500 U. S. 173, 192 (1991)
(“[T]he government ‘may make a value judgment favoring
childbirth over abortion’ ” (quoting Maher v. Rue,
432 U. S. 464, 474 (1977) )). Accordingly, both Congress and
the States are entitled to enact laws recognizing either of the two
understandings of marriage. And given the size of government and
the degree to which it now regulates daily life, it seems unlikely
that either Congress or the States could maintain complete
neutrality even if they tried assiduously to do so.

															     Rather than fully
embracing the arguments made by Windsor and the United States, the
Court strikes down §3 of DOMA as a classification not properly
supported by its objectives. The Court reaches this conclusion in
part because it believes that §3 encroaches upon the
States’ sovereign prerogative to define marriage. See ante,
at 21–22 (“As the title and dynamics of the bill
indicate, its purpose is to discourage enactment of state same-sex
marriage laws and to restrict the freedom and choice of couples
married under those laws if they are enacted. The congressional
goal was ‘to put a thumb on the scales and influence a
state’s decision as to how to shape its own marriage
laws’ ” (quoting Massachusetts v. United States
Dept. of Health and Human Servs., 682 F. 3d 1, 12–13
(CA1 2012))). Indeed, the Court’s ultimate conclusion is that
DOMA falls afoul of the Fifth Amendment because it “singles
out a class of persons deemed by a State entitled to recognition
and protection to enhance their own liberty” and
“imposes a disability on the class by refusing to acknowledge
a status the State finds to be dignified and proper.” Ante,
at 25 (emphasis added).

															     To the extent that the
Court takes the position that the question of same-sex marriage
should be resolved primar- ily at the state level, I wholeheartedly
agree. I hope that the Court will ultimately permit the people of
each State to decide this question for themselves. Unless the Court
is willing to allow this to occur, the whiffs of federalism in the
today’s opinion of the Court will soon be scattered to the
wind.

															     In any event, §3
of DOMA, in my view, does not encroach on the prerogatives of the
States, assuming of course that the many federal statutes affected
by DOMA have not already done so. Section 3 does not prevent any
State from recognizing same-sex marriage or from extending to
same-sex couples any right, privilege, benefit, or obligation
stemming from state law. All that §3 does is to define a class
of persons to whom federal law extends cer- tain special benefits
and upon whom federal law imposes certain special burdens. In these
provisions, Congress used marital status as a way of defining this
class—in part, I assume, because it viewed marriage as a
valua- ble institution to be fostered and in part because it viewed
married couples as comprising a unique type of economic unit that
merits special regulatory treatment. Assuming that Congress has the
power under the Constitution to enact the laws affected by §3,
Congress has the power to define the category of persons to whom
those laws apply.

															*  *  *

															     For these reasons, I
would hold that §3 of DOMA does not violate the Fifth
Amendment. I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 Our precedents make clear
that, in order to support our jurisdic-tion, BLAG must demonstrate
that it had Article III standing in its own right, quite apart from
its status as an intervenor. See Diamond v. Charles,
(“Although intervenors are considered parties entitled, among
other things, to seek review by this Court, an intervenor’s
right to continue a suit in the absence of the party on whose side
intervention was permitted is contingent upon a showing by the
intervenor that he fulfills the requirements of Art. III”
(citation omitted)); Arizonans for Official English v. Arizona,
(“Standing to defend on appeal in the place of an original
defendant, no less than standing to sue, demands that the litigant
possess a direct stake in the outcome” (internal quotation
marks omitted)); id.,at 65 (“An intervenor cannot step into
the shoes of the original party unless the intervenor independently
fulfills the requirements of Article III” (internal quotation
marks omitted)).
2
 H. Res. 5, 113th
Cong., 1st Sess., §4(a)(1)(B) (2013) (“[BLAG] continues
to speak for, and articulates the institutional position of, the
House in all litigation matters in which it appears, including in
Windsor v. United States”).
3
 Buckley v. Valeo, , is
not to the contrary. The Court’s statements there concerned
enforcement, not defense.
4
 Curry-Sumner, A Patchwork
of Partnerships: Comparative Overview of Registration Schemes in
Europe, in Legal Recognition of Same-Sex Partnerships 71, 72 (K.
Boele-Woelki & A. Fuchs eds., rev. 2d ed., 2012).
5
 As sociologists have
documented, it sometimes takes decades to doc-ument the effects of
social changes—like the sharp rise in divorcerates following
the advent of no-fault divorce—on children and society. See
generally J. Wallerstein, J. Lewis, & S. Blakeslee, The
Unexpected Legacy of Divorce: The 25 Year Landmark Study
(2000).
6
 Among those holding that
position, some deplore and some applaud this predicted development.
Compare, e.g., Wardle, “Multiply and Replenish”:
Considering Same-Sex Marriage in Light of State Interests in
Marital Procreation, 24 Harv. J. L. & Pub. Pol’y
771, 799 (2001) (“Culturally, the legalization of same-sex
marriage would send a mes-sage that would undermine the social
boundaries relating to mar-riage and family relations. The
confusion of social roles linked with marriage and parenting would
be tremendous, and the message of ‘anything goes’ in
the way of sexual behavior, procreation, and parenthood would wreak
its greatest havoc among groups of vulnerable individuals who most
need the encouragement of bright line lawsand clear social mores
concerning procreative responsibility”) and Gal-lagher, (How)
Will Gay Marriage Weaken Marriage as a Social Institution: A Reply
to Andrew Koppelman, 2 U. St. Thomas L. J. 33, 58 (2005)
(“If the idea of marriage really does matter—if society
really does need a social institution that manages opposite-sex
attractions in the interests of children and society—then
taking an already weakened social institution, subjecting it to
radical new redefinitions, and hoping that there are no
consequences is probably neither a wise nor a compassionate
idea”), with Brownworth, Something Borrowed, Something Blue:
Is Marriage Right for Queers? in I Do/I Don’t: Queers on
Marriage 53, 58–59 (G. Wharton & I. Phillips eds. 2004)
(Former President George W. “Bush is correct . . .
when he states that allowing same-sex couples to marry will weaken
the institution of marriage. It most certainly will do so, and that
will make marriage a far better concept than it previously has
been”) and Willis, Can Marriage Be Saved? A Forum, The
Nation, p. 16 (2004) (celebrating the fact that “conferring
the legitimacy of marriage on homosexual relations will introduce
an implicit revolt against the institution into its very
heart”).
7
 The degree to which this
question is intractable to typical judicial processes of
decisionmaking was highlighted by the trial in Hollingsworth v.
Perry, ante, p. ___. In that case, the trial judge, after receiving
testimony from some expert witnesses, purported to make
“findings of fact” on such questions as why marriage
came to be, Perry v. Schwarzenegger, 704 F. Supp. 2d 921, 958
(ND Cal. 2010) (finding of fact no. 27) (“Marriage between a
man and a woman was traditionally organized based on presumptions
of division of labor along gender lines. Men were seen as suited
for certain types of work and women for others. Women were seen as
suited to raise children and men were seen as suited to provide for
the family”), what marriage is, id., at 961 (finding of fact
no. 34) (“Marriage is the state recognition and approval of a
couple’s choice to live with each other, to remain committed
to one another and to form a household based on their own feelings
about one another and to join in an economic partnership and
support one another and any dependents”), and the effect
legalizing same-sex marriage would have on opposite-sex marriage,
id., at 972 (finding of fact no. 55) (“Permitting same-sex
couples to marry will not affect the number of opposite-sex couples
who marry, divorce, cohabit, have children outside of marriage or
otherwise affect the stability of opposite-sex marriages”).
At times, the trial reached the heights of parody, as when the
trial judge questioned his ability to take into account the views
of great thinkers of the past because they were unavailable to
testify in person in his courtroom. See 13 Tr. in No. C
09–2292 VRW (ND Cal.), pp. 3038–3039. And, if this
spectacle were not enough, some professors of constitutional law
have argued that we are bound to accept the trial judge’s
findings—including those on major philosophical questions and
predictions about the future—unless they are “clearly
erroneous.” See Brief for Constitutional Law and Civil
Procedure Professors as Amici Curiae in Hollingsworth v. Perry,
O. T. 2012, No. 12–144, pp. 2–3 (“[T]he
district court’s factual findings are compelling and should
be given significant weight”); id., at 25 (“Under any
standard of review, this Court should credit and adopt the trial
court’s findings because they result from rigorous and
exacting application of the Federal Rules of Evidence, and are
supported by reliable research and by the unanimous consensus of
mainstream social science experts”). Only an arrogant legal
culture that has lost all appreciation of its own limitations could
take such a suggestion seriously.


