::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-075
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 637 (2013)
::decision_name::  Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Opinion
::opinion:: 

															

															NOTICE: This opinion is subject to
formal revision before publication in the preliminary print of the
United States Reports. Readers are requested to notify the
Reporter of Decisions, Supreme Court of the United States,
Washington, D. C. 20543, of any typographical or other formal
errors, in order that corrections may be made before the
preliminary print goes to press.

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–399

															_________________

															ADOPTIVE COUPLE, PETITIONERS v. BABY GIRL, a
minor child under the age of fourteen years, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
south carolina

															[June 25, 2013]

															

															     Justice Alito
delivered the opinion of the Court.

															     This case is about a
little girl (Baby Girl) who is classified as an Indian because she
is 1.2% (3/256) Cherokee. Because Baby Girl is classified in this
way, the South Carolina Supreme Court held that certain provisions
of the federal Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 required her to be
taken, at the age of 27 months, from the only parents she had ever
known and handed over to her biological father, who had attempted
to relinquish his parental rights and who had no prior contact with
the child. The provisions of the federal statute at issue here do
not demand this result.

															     Contrary to the State
Supreme Court’s ruling, we hold that 25 U. S. C.
§1912(f)—which bars involuntary termination of a
parent’s rights in the absence of a heightened showing that
serious harm to the Indian child is likely to result from the
parent’s “continued custody” of the
child—does not apply when, as here, the relevant parent never
had custody of the child. We further hold that
§1912(d)—which conditions involuntary termination of
parental rights with respect to an Indian child on a showing that
remedial efforts have been made to prevent the “breakup of
the Indian family”—is inapplicable when, as here, the
parent abandoned the Indian child before birth and never had
custody of the child. Finally, we clarify that §1915(a), which
provides placement preferences for the adoption of Indian children,
does not bar a non-Indian family like Adoptive Couple from adopting
an Indian child when no other eligible candidates have sought to
adopt the child. We accordingly reverse the South Carolina Supreme
Court’s judgment and remand for further proceedings.

															I

															     “The Indian
Child Welfare Act of 1978 (ICWA), 92Stat. 3069, 25
U. S. C. §§1901–1963, was the product of
rising concern in the mid-1970’s over the consequences to In-
dian children, Indian families, and Indian tribes of abusive child
welfare practices that resulted in the separation of large numbers
of Indian children from their families and tribes through adoption
or foster care placement, usually in non-Indian homes.”
Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians v. Holyfield, 490 U. S.
30, 32 (1989) . Congress found that “an alarmingly high
percentage of Indian families [were being] broken up by the
removal, often unwarranted, of their children from them by
nontribal public and private agencies.” §1901(4). This
“wholesale removal of Indian children from their homes”
prompted Congress to enact the ICWA, which establishes federal
standards that govern state-court child custody proceedings
involving Indian children. Id., at 32, 36 (internal quotation marks
omitted); see also §1902 (declaring that the ICWA es-
tablishes “minimum Federal standards for the removal of
Indian children from their families”). [ 1 ]

															     Three provisions of the
ICWA are especially relevant to this case. First, “[a]ny
party seeking” an involuntary termination of parental rights
to an Indian child under state law must demonstrate that
“active efforts have been made to provide remedial services
and rehabilitative programs designed to prevent the breakup of the
Indian family and that these efforts have proved
unsuccessful.” §1912(d). Second, a state court may not
involuntarily terminate parental rights to an Indian child
“in the absence of a determination, supported by evidence
beyond a reasonable doubt, including testimony of qualified expert
witnesses, that the continued custody of the child by the parent or
Indian custodian is likely to result in serious emotional or
physical damage to the child.” §1912(f). Third, with
respect to adoptive placements for an Indian child under state law,
“a preference shall be given, in the absence of good cause to
the contrary, to a placement with (1) a member of the child’s
extended family; (2) other members of the Indian child’s
tribe; or (3) other Indian families.” §1915(a).

															II

															     In this case, Birth
Mother (who is predominantly Hispanic) and Biological Father (who
is a member of the Cherokee Nation) became engaged in December
2008. One month later, Birth Mother informed Biological Father, who
lived about four hours away, that she was pregnant. After learning
of the pregnancy, Biological Father asked Birth Mother to move up
the date of the wedding. He also refused to provide any financial
support until after the two had married. The couple’s
relationship deteriorated, and Birth Mother broke off the
engagement in May 2009. In June, Birth Mother sent Biological
Father a text message asking if he would rather pay child support
or re- linquish his parental rights. Biological Father responded
via text message that he relinquished his rights.

															     Birth Mother then
decided to put Baby Girl up for adoption. Because Birth Mother
believed that Biological Father had Cherokee Indian heritage, her
attorney contacted the Cherokee Nation to determine whether
Biological Father was formally enrolled. The inquiry letter
misspelled Biological Father’s first name and incorrectly
stated his birthday, and the Cherokee Nation responded that, based
on the information provided, it could not verify Biological
Father’s membership in the tribal records.

															     Working through a
private adoption agency, Birth Mother selected Adoptive Couple,
non-Indians living in South Carolina, to adopt Baby Girl. Adoptive
Couple supported Birth Mother both emotionally and financially
throughout her pregnancy. Adoptive Couple was present at Baby
Girl’s birth in Oklahoma on September 15, 2009, and Adoptive
Father even cut the umbilical cord. The next morning, Birth Mother
signed forms relinquishing her parental rights and consenting to
the adoption. Adoptive Couple initiated adoption proceedings in
South Carolina a few days later, and returned there with Baby Girl.
After returning to South Carolina, Adoptive Couple allowed Birth
Mother to visit and communicate with Baby Girl.

															     It is undisputed that,
for the duration of the pregnancy and the first four months after
Baby Girl’s birth, Biological Father provided no financial
assistance to Birth Mother or Baby Girl, even though he had the
ability to do so. In- deed, Biological Father “made no
meaningful attempts to assume his responsibility of
parenthood” during this period. App. to Pet. for Cert. 122a
(Sealed; internal quotation marks omitted).

															     Approximately four
months after Baby Girl’s birth, Adoptive Couple served
Biological Father with notice of the pending adoption. (This was
the first notification that they had provided to Biological Father
regarding the adoption proceeding.) Biological Father signed papers
stating that he accepted service and that he was “not
contesting the adoption.” App. 37. But Biological Father
later testified that, at the time he signed the papers, he thought
that he was relinquishing his rights to Birth Mother, not to
Adoptive Couple.

															     Biological Father
contacted a lawyer the day after signing the papers, and
subsequently requested a stay of the adoption proceedings. [
2 ] In the adoption
proceedings, Biological Father sought custody and stated that he
did not consent to Baby Girl’s adoption. Moreover, Biological
Father took a paternity test, which verified that he was Baby
Girl’s biological father.

															     A trial took place in
the South Carolina Family Court in September 2011, by which time
Baby Girl was two years old. 398 S. C. 625, 634–635, 731
S. E. 2d 550, 555–556 (2012). The Family Court concluded
that Adoptive Couple had not carried the heightened burden under
§1912(f) of proving that Baby Girl would suffer serious
emotional or physical damage if Biological Father had custody. See
id., at 648–651, 731 S. E. 2d, at 562–564. The
Family Court therefore denied Adoptive Couple’s petition for
adoption and awarded custody to Biological Father. Id., at 629,
636, 731 S. E. 2d, at 552, 556. On December 31, 2011, at the
age of 27 months, Baby Girl was handed over to Biological Father,
whom she had never met. [ 3
]

															     The South Carolina
Supreme Court affirmed the Family Court’s denial of the
adoption and the award of custody to Biological Father. Id., at
629, 731 S. E. 2d, at 552. The State Supreme Court first
determined that the ICWA applied because the case involved a child
custody proceeding relating to an Indian child. Id., at 637, 643,
n. 18, 731 S. E. 2d, at 556, 560, n. 18. It also
concluded that Biological Father fell within the ICWA’s
definition of a “ ‘parent.’ ”
Id., at 644, 731 S. E. 2d, at 560. The court then held that
two separate provisions of the ICWA barred the termination of
Biological Father’s parental rights. First, the court held
that Adoptive Couple had not shown that “active efforts ha[d]
been made to provide remedial services and rehabilitative programs
designed to prevent the breakup of the Indian family.”
§1912(d); see also id., at 647–648, 731 S. E. 2d,
at 562. Second, the court concluded that Adoptive Couple had not
shown that Biological Father’s “custody of Baby Girl
would result in serious emotional or physical harm to her beyond a
reasonable doubt.” Id., at 648–649, 731 S. E. 2d,
at 562–563 (citing §1912(f)). Finally, the court stated
that, even if it had decided to terminate Biological Father’s
parental rights, §1915(a)’s adoption- placement
preferences would have applied. Id., at 655–657, 731
S. E. 2d, at 566–567. We granted certiorari. 568
U. S. ___ (2013).

															III

															     It is undisputed
that, had Baby Girl not been 3/256 Cherokee, Biological Father
would have had no right to object to her adoption under South
Carolina law. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 49; 398 S. C., at 644,
n. 19, 731 S. E. 2d, at 560, n. 19 (“Under
state law, [Biological] Father’s con- sent to the adoption
would not have been required”). The South Carolina Supreme
Court held, however, that Biological Father is a
“parent” under the ICWA and that two statutory
provisions—namely, §1912(f) and §1912(d)—bar
the termination of his parental rights. In this Court, Adoptive
Couple contends that Biological Father is not a
“parent” and that §1912(f) and §1912(d) are
inapplicable. We need not—and therefore do not—decide
whether Biological Father is a “parent.” See
§1903(9) (defining “parent”). [ 4 ] Rather, assuming for the sake of argument
that he is a “parent,” we hold that neither
§1912(f) nor §1912(d) bars the termination of his
parental rights.

															A

															     Section 1912(f)
addresses the involuntary termination of parental rights with
respect to an Indian child. Specifically, §1912(f) provides
that “[n]o termination of parental rights may be ordered in
such proceeding in the absence of a determination, supported by
evidence beyond a reasonable doubt, . . . that the
continued custody of the child by the parent or Indian custodian is
likely to result in serious emotional or physical damage to the
child.” (Emphasis added.) The South Carolina Supreme Court
held that Adoptive Couple failed to satisfy §1912(f) because
they did not make a heightened showing that Biological
Father’s “prospective legal and physical custody”
would likely result in serious damage to the child. 398 S. C.,
at 651, 731 S. E. 2d, at 564 (emphasis added). That holding
was error.

															     Section 1912(f)
conditions the involuntary termination of parental rights on a
showing regarding the merits of “continued custody of the
child by the parent.” (Emphasis added.) The adjective
“continued” plainly refers to a pre-existing state. As
Justice Sotomayor concedes, post, at 11 (dissenting opinion)
(hereinafter the dissent), “continued” means
“[c]arried on or kept up without cessation” or
“[e]xtended in space without interruption or breach of
conne[ct]ion.” Compact Edition of the Oxford English
Dictionary 909 (1981 reprint of 1971 ed.) (Compact OED); see also
American Heritage Dictionary 288 (1981) (defining
“continue” in the following manner: “1. To go on
with a particular action or in a particular condition;
persist. . . .  3. To remain in the same state,
capacity, or place”); Webster’s Third New International
Dictionary 493 (1961) (Webster’s) (defining
“continued” as “stretching out in time or space
esp. without interruption”); Aguilar v. FDIC, 63 F. 3d
1059, 1062 (CA11 1995) (per curiam) (suggesting that the phrase
“continue an action” means “go on with
. . . an action” that is
“preexisting”). The term “continued” also
can mean “resumed after interruption.” Webster’s
493; see American Heritage Dictionary 288. The phrase
“continued custody” therefore refers to custody that a
parent already has (or at least had at some point in the past). As
a result, §1912(f) does not apply in cases where the Indian
parent never had custody of the Indian child. [ 5 ]

															     Biological
Father’s contrary reading of §1912(f) is nonsensical.
Pointing to the provision’s requirement that “[n]o
termination of parental rights may be ordered . . . in
the absence of a determination” relating to “the
continued custody of the child by the parent,” Biological
Father contends that if a determination relating to
“continued custody” is inapposite in cases where there
is no “custody,” the statutory text prohibits
termination. See Brief for Respondent Birth Father 39. But it would
be absurd to think that Congress enacted a provision that permits
termination of a custodial parent’s rights, while
simultaneously prohibiting termination of a noncustodial
parent’s rights. If the statute draws any distinction between
custodial and noncustodial parents, that distinction surely does
not provide greater protection for noncustodial parents. [ 6 ]

															     Our reading of
§1912(f) comports with the statutory text demonstrating that
the primary mischief the ICWA was designed to counteract was the
unwarranted removal of Indian children from Indian families due to
the cultural insensitivity and biases of social workers and state
courts. The statutory text expressly highlights the primary problem
that the statute was intended to solve: “an alarmingly high
percentage of Indian families [were being] broken up by the
removal, often unwarranted, of their children from them by
nontribal public and private agencies.” §1901(4)
(emphasis added); see also §1902 (explaining that the ICWA
establishes “minimum Federal standards for the removal of
Indian children from their families” (emphasis added));
Holyfield, 490 U. S., at 32–34. And if the legislative
history of the ICWA is thought to be relevant, it further
underscores that the Act was primarily intended to stem the
unwarranted removal of Indian children from intact Indian families.
See, e.g., H. R. Rep. No. 95–1386, p. 8 (1978)
(explaining that, as relevant here, “[t]he purpose of [the
ICWA] is to protect the best interests of Indian children and to
promote the stability and security of Indian tribes and families by
establishing minimum Federal standards for the removal of Indian
children from their families and the placement of such children in
foster or adoptive homes” (emphasis added)); id., at 9
(decrying the “wholesale separation of Indian children”
from their Indian families); id., at 22 (discussing “the
removal” of Indian children from their parents pursuant to
§§1912(e) and (f)). In sum, when, as here, the adoption
of an Indian child is voluntarily and lawfully initiated by a
non-Indian parent with sole custodial rights, the ICWA’s
primary goal of preventing the unwarranted removal of Indian
children and the dissolution of Indian families is not
implicated.

															     The dissent fails to
dispute that nonbinding guidelines issued by the Bureau of Indian
Affairs (BIA) shortly after the ICWA’s enactment demonstrate
that the BIA envisioned that §1912(f)’s standard would
apply only to termination of a custodial parent’s rights.
Specifically, the BIA stated that, under §1912(f), “[a]
child may not be removed simply because there is someone else
willing to raise the child who is likely to do a better job”;
instead, “[i]t must be shown that . . . it is
dangerous for the child to remain with his or her present
custodians.” Guidelines for State Courts; Indian Child
Custody Proceedings, 44 Fed. Reg. 67593 (1979) (emphasis added)
(hereinafter Guidelines). Indeed, the Guidelines recognized that
§1912(f) applies only when there is pre-existing custody to
evaluate. See ibid. (“[T]he issue on which qualified expert
testimony is required is the question of whether or not serious
damage to the child is likely to occur if the child is not
removed”).

															     Under our reading of
§1912(f), Biological Father should not have been able to
invoke §1912(f) in this case, because he had never had legal
or physical custody of Baby Girl as of the time of the adoption
proceedings. As an initial matter, it is undisputed that Biological
Father never had physical custody of Baby Girl. And as a matter of
both South Carolina and Oklahoma law, Biological Father never had
legal custody either. See S. C. Code Ann.
§63–17–20(B) (2010) (“Unless the court
orders otherwise, the custody of an illegitimate child is solely in
the natural mother unless the mother has relinquished her rights to
the child”); Okla. Stat., Tit. 10, §7800 (West Cum.
Supp. 2013) (“Except as otherwise provided by law, the mother
of a child born out of wedlock has custody of the child until
determined otherwise by a court of competent jurisdiction”).
[ 7 ]

															     In sum, the South
Carolina Supreme Court erred in finding that §1912(f) barred
termination of Biological Father’s parental rights.

															B

															     Section 1912(d)
provides that “[a]ny party” seeking to terminate
parental rights to an Indian child under state law “shall
satisfy the court that active efforts have been made to provide
remedial services and rehabilitative programs designed to prevent
the breakup of the Indian family and that these efforts have proved
unsuccessful.” (Emphasis added.) The South Carolina Supreme
Court found that Biological Father’s parental rights could
not be terminated because Adoptive Couple had not demonstrated that
Biological Father had been provided remedial services in accordance
with §1912(d). 398 S. C., at 647–648, 731
S. E. 2d, at 562. We disagree.

															     Consistent with the
statutory text, we hold that §1912(d) applies only in cases
where an Indian family’s “breakup” would be
precipitated by the termination of the parent’s rights. The
term “breakup” refers in this context to “[t]he
discontinuance of a relationship,” American Heritage
Dictionary 235 (3d ed. 1992), or “an ending as an effective
entity,” Webster’s 273 (defining “breakup”
as “a disruption or dissolution into component parts: an
ending as an effective entity”). See also Compact OED 1076
(defining “break-up” as, inter alia, a
“disruption, separation into parts, disintegration”).
But when an Indian parent abandons an Indian child prior to birth
and that child has never been in the Indian parent’s legal or
physical custody, there is no “relationship” that would
be “discontinu[ed]”—and no “effective
entity” that would be “end[ed]”—by the
termination of the Indian par- ent’s rights. In such a
situation, the “breakup of the Indian family” has long
since occurred, and §1912(d) is inapplicable.

															     Our interpretation of
§1912(d) is, like our interpretation of §1912(f),
consistent with the explicit congressional purpose of providing
certain “standards for the removal of Indian children from
their families.” §1902 (emphasis added); see also, e.g.,
§1901(4); Holyfield, 490 U. S., at 32–34. In
addition, the BIA’s Guidelines confirm that remedial services
under §1912(d) are intended “to alleviate the need to
remove the Indian child from his or her parents or Indian
custodians,” not to facilitate a transfer of the child to an
Indian parent. See 44 Fed. Reg., at 67592 (emphasis added).

															     Our interpretation of
§1912(d) is also confirmed by the provision’s placement
next to §1912(e) and §1912(f), both of which condition
the outcome of proceedings on the merits of an Indian child’s
“continued custody” with his parent. That these three
provisions appear adjacent to each other strongly suggests that the
phrase “breakup of the Indian family” should be read in
harmony with the “continued custody” requirement. See
United Sav. Assn. of Tex. v. Timbers of Inwood Forest Associates,
Ltd., 484 U. S. 365, 371 (1988) (explaining that statutory
construction “is a holistic endeavor” and that
“[a] provision that may seem ambiguous in isolation is often
clarified by the remainder of the statutory scheme”). None of
these three provisions creates parental rights for unwed fathers
where no such rights would otherwise exist. Instead, Indian parents
who are already part of an “Indian family” are provided
with access to “remedial services and rehabilitative
programs” under §1912(d) so that their
“custody” might be “continued” in a way
that avoids foster-care placement under §1912(e) or
termination of parental rights under §1912(f). In other words,
the provision of “remedial services and rehabilitative
programs” under §1912(d) supports the “continued
custody” that is protected by §1912(e) and
§1912(f). [ 8 ]

															     Section 1912(d) is a
sensible requirement when applied to state social workers who might
otherwise be too quick to remove Indian children from their Indian
families. It would, however, be unusual to apply §1912(d) in
the context of an Indian parent who abandoned a child prior to
birth and who never had custody of the child. The decision below
illustrates this point. The South Carolina Supreme Court held that
§1912(d) mandated measures such as “attempting to
stimulate [Biological] Father’s desire to be a parent.”
398 S. C., at 647, 731 S. E. 2d, at 562. But if
prospective adoptive parents were required to engage in the bizarre
undertaking of “stimulat[ing]” a biological
father’s “desire to be a parent,” it would surely
dissuade some of them from seeking to adopt Indian children. [
9 ] And this would, in turn,
unnecessarily place vulnerable Indian children at a unique
disadvantage in finding a permanent and loving home, even in cases
where neither an Indian parent nor the relevant tribe objects to
the adoption. [ 10 ]

															     In sum, the South
Carolina Supreme Court erred in finding that §1912(d) barred
termination of Biological Father’s parental rights.

															IV

															     In the decision
below, the South Carolina Supreme Court suggested that if it had
terminated Biological Father’s rights, then
§1915(a)’s preferences for the adoptive placement of an
Indian child would have been applicable. 398 S. C., at
655–657, 731 S. E. 2d, at 566–567. In so doing,
however, the court failed to recognize a critical lim- itation on
the scope of §1915(a).

															     Section 1915(a)
provides that “[i]n any adoptive placement of an Indian child
under State law, a preference shall be given, in the absence of
good cause to the contrary, to a placement with (1) a member of the
child’s extended family; (2) other members of the Indian
child’s tribe; or (3) other Indian families.” Contrary
to the South Carolina Supreme Court’s suggestion,
§1915(a)’s preferences are inapplicable in cases where
no alternative party has formally sought to adopt the child. This
is because there simply is no “preference” to apply if
no alternative party that is eligible to be preferred under
§1915(a) has come forward.

															     In this case, Adoptive
Couple was the only party that sought to adopt Baby Girl in the
Family Court or the South Carolina Supreme Court. See Brief for
Petitioners 19, 55; Brief for Respondent Birth Father 48; Reply
Brief for Petitioners 13. Biological Father is not covered by
§1915(a) because he did not seek to adopt Baby Girl; instead,
he argued that his parental rights should not be terminated in the
first place. [ 11 ]
Moreover, Baby Girl’s paternal grandparents never sought
custody of Baby Girl. See Brief for Petitioners 55; Reply Brief for
Petitioners 13; 398 S. C., at 699, 731 S. E. 2d, at 590
(Kittredge, J., dissenting) (noting that the “paternal
grandparents are not parties to this action”). Nor did other
members of the Cherokee Nation or “other Indian
families” seek to adopt Baby Girl, even though the Cherokee
Nation had notice of—and intervened in—the adoption
proceedings. See Brief for Respondent Cherokee Nation 21–22;
Reply Brief for Petitioners 13–14. [ 12 ]

															*  *  *

															     The Indian Child
Welfare Act was enacted to help preserve the cultural identity and
heritage of Indian tribes, but under the State Supreme
Court’s reading, the Act would put certain vulnerable
children at a great disadvantage solely because an
ancestor—even a remote one—was an Indian. As the State
Supreme Court read §§1912(d) and (f), a biological Indian
father could abandon his child in utero and refuse any support for
the birth mother—perhaps contributing to the mother’s
decision to put the child up for adoption—and then could play
his ICWA trump card at the eleventh hour to override the
mother’s decision and the child’s best interests. If
this were possible, many prospective adoptive parents would surely
pause before adopting any child who might possibly qualify as an
Indian under the ICWA. Such an interpretation would raise equal
protection concerns, but the plain text of §§1912(f) and
(d) makes clear that neither provision applies in the present
context. Nor do §1915(a)’s rebuttable adoption
preferences apply when no alternative party has formally sought to
adopt the child. We therefore reverse the judgment of the South
Carolina Supreme Court and remand the case for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.

															It is so ordered.

Notes
1
 It is undisputed that
Baby Girl is an “Indian child” as defined by the ICWA
because she is an unmarried minor who “is eligible for
membership in an Indian tribe and is the biological child of a
member of an Indian tribe,” §1903(4)(b). See Brief for
Respondent Birth Father 1, 51, n. 22; Brief for Respondent Cherokee
Nation 1; Brief for Petitioners 44 (“Baby Girl’s
eligibility for membership in the Cherokee Nation depends solely
upon a lineal blood relationship with a tribal ancestor”).It
is also undisputed that the present case concerns a “child
custody proceeding,” which the ICWA defines to include
proceedings that involve “termination of parental
rights” and “adoptive placement,”
§1903(1).
2
 Around the same time, the
Cherokee Nation identified Biological Father as a registered member
and concluded that Baby Girl was an “Indian child” as
defined in the ICWA. The Cherokee Nation intervened in the
litigation approximately three months later.
3
 According to the guardian
ad litem, Biological Father allowed Baby Girl to speak with
Adoptive Couple by telephone the following day, but then cut off
all communication between them. Moreover, according to Birth
Mother, Biological Father has made no attempt to contact her since
the time he took custody of Baby Girl.
4
 If Biological Father is
not a “parent” under the ICWA, then §1912(f) and
§1912(d)—which relate to proceedings involving possible
termination of “parental” rights—are
inapplicable. Because we conclude that these provisions are
inapplicable for other reasons, however, we need not decide whether
Biological Father is a “parent.”
5
 With a torrent of words,
the dissent attempts to obscure the fact that its interpretation
simply cannot be squared with the statutory text. A biological
father’s “continued custody” of a child cannot be
assessed if the father never had custody at all, and the use of a
different phrase—“termination of parental
rights”—cannot change that. In addition, the
dissent’s reliance on subsection headings, post, at 9,
overlooks the fact that those headings were not actually enacted by
Congress. See –3072.
6
 The dissent criticizes us
for allegedly concluding that a biological father qualifies for
“substantive” statutory protections “only when
[he] has physical or state-recognized legal custody.” Post,
at 2, 6–7. But the dissent undercuts its own point when it
states that “numerous” ICWA provisions not at issue
here afford “meaningful” protections to biological
fathers regardless of whether they ever had custody. Post, at
4–7, and nn. 1, 2.
7
 In an effort to rebut our
supposed conclusion that “Congress could not possibly have
intended” to require legal termination of Biological
Father’s rights with respect to Baby Girl, the dissent
asserts that a minority of States afford (or used to afford)
protection to similarly situated biological fathers. See post, at
17–18, and n. 12 (emphasis added). This is entirely
beside the point, because we merely conclude that, based on the
statute’s text and structure, Congress did not extend the
heightened protections of §1912(d) and §1912(f) to all
biological fathers. The fact that state laws may provide certain
protections to biological fathers who have abandoned their children
and who have never had custody of their children in no way
undermines our analysis of these two federal statutory
provisions.
8
 The dissent claims that
our reasoning “necessarily extends to all Indian parents who
have never had custody of their children,” even if those
parents have visitation rights. Post, at 2–3, 13–14. As
an initial matter, the dissent’s concern about the effect of
our decision on individuals with visitation rights will be
implicated, at most, in a relatively small class of cases. For
example, our interpretation of §1912(d) would implicate the
dissent’s concern only in the case of a parent who abandoned
his or her child prior to birth and never had physical or legal
custody, but did have some sort of visitation rights. Moreover, in
cases where this concern is implicated, such parents might receive
“comparable” protections under state law. See post, at
15. And in any event, it is the dissent’s interpretation that
would have far-reaching consequences: Under the dissent’s
reading, any biological parent—even a sperm donor—would
enjoy the heightened protections of §1912(d) and§1912(f),
even if he abandoned the mother and the child immediately after
conception. Post, at 14, n. 8.
9
 Biological Father and the
Solicitor General argue that a tribeor state agency could provide
the requisite remedial services under §1912(d). Brief for
Respondent Birth Father 43; Brief for United States as Amicus
Curiae 22. But what if they don’t? And if they don’t,
would the adoptive parents have to undertake the task?
10  The
dissent repeatedly mischaracterizes our opinion. As our detailed
discussion of the terms of the ICWA makes clear, our decisionis not
based on a “[p]olicy disagreement with Congress’
judgment.” Post, at 2; see also post, at 8, 21.
11  Section 1915(c) also provides that,
in the case of an adoptive placement under §1915(a), “if
the Indian child’s tribe shall establish a different order of
preference by resolution, the agency or court effecting the
placement shall follow such order so long as the placement is the
least restrictive setting appropriate to the particular needs of
the child, as provided in [§1915(b)].” Although we need
not decide the issuehere, it may be the case that an Indian
child’s tribe could alter §1915’s preferences in a
way that includes a biological father whose rights were terminated,
but who has now reformed. See §1915(c). If a tribe were to
take such an approach, however, the court would still have the
power to determine whether “good cause” exists to
disregard the tribe’s order of preference. See
§§1915(a), (c); In re Adoption of T. R. M., 525
N. E. 2d 298, 313 (Ind. 1988).
12  To be
sure, an employee of the Cherokee Nation testified that the
Cherokee Nation certifies families to be adoptive parents and that
there are approximately 100 such families “that are ready to
take children that want to be adopted.” Record 446. However,
this testi-mony was only a general statement regarding the Cherokee
Nation’s practices; it did not demonstrate that a specific
Indian family was willing to adopt Baby Girl, let alone that such a
family formally sought such adoption in the South Carolina courts.
See Reply Brief for Petitioners 13–14; see also Brief for
Respondent Cherokee Nation 21–22.


