::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-061
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 136 (2013)
::decision_name::  FTC v. Actavis, Inc.
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–416

															_________________

															FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION, PETITIONER v.
ACTAVIS, INC., et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[June 17, 2013]

															

															     Chief Justice
Roberts, with whom Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas join,
dissenting.

															     Solvay Pharmaceuticals
holds a patent. It sued two generic drug manufacturers that it
alleged were infringing that patent. Those companies
counterclaimed, contending the patent was invalid and that, in any
event, their products did not infringe. The parties litigated for
three years before settling on these terms: Solvay agreed to pay
the generics millions of dollars and to allow them into the market
five years before the patent was set to expire; in exchange, the
generics agreed to provide certain services (help with marketing
and manufacturing) and to honor Solvay’s patent. The Federal
Trade Commission alleges that such a settlement violates the
antitrust laws. The question is how to assess that claim.

															     A patent carves out an
exception to the applicability of antitrust laws. The correct
approach should therefore be to ask whether the settlement gives
Solvay monopoly power beyond what the patent already gave it. The
Court, however, departs from this approach, and would instead use
antitrust law’s amorphous rule of reason to inquire into the
anticompetitive effects of such settlements. This novel approach is
without support in any statute, and will discourage the settlement
of patent litigation. I respectfully dissent.

															I

															     The point of
antitrust law is to encourage competitive markets to promote
consumer welfare. The point of patent law is to grant limited
monopolies as a way of encouraging innovation. Thus, a patent
grants “the right to exclude others from profiting by the
patented invention.” Dawson Chemical Co. v. Rohm & Haas
Co., 448 U. S. 176, 215 (1980) . In doing so it provides an
exception to antitrust law, and the scope of the patent—i.e.,
the rights conferred by the patent—forms the zone within
which the patent holder may operate without facing antitrust
liability.

															     This should go without
saying, in part because we’ve said it so many times. Walker
Process Equipment, Inc. v. Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 382
U. S. 172, 177 (1965) (“ ‘A patent
. . . is an exception to the general rule against
monopolies’ ”); United States v. Line Material
Co., 333 U. S. 287, 300 (1948) (“[T]he precise terms of
the grant define the limits of a patentee’s monopoly and the
area in which the patentee is freed from competition”);
United States v. General Elec. Co., 272 U. S. 476, 485 (1926)
(“It is only when . . . [the patentee] steps out of
the scope of his patent rights” that he comes within the
operation of the Sherman Act); Simpson v. Union Oil Co. of Cal.,
377 U. S. 13, 24 (1964) (similar). Thus, although it is per se
unlawful to fix prices under antitrust law, we have long recognized
that a patent holder is entitled to license a competitor to sell
its product on the condition that the competitor charge a certain,
fixed price. See, e.g., General Elec. Co., supra, at
488–490.

															     We have never held that
it violates antitrust law for a competitor to refrain from
challenging a patent. And by extension, we have long recognized
that the settlement of patent litigation does not by itself violate
the antitrust laws. Standard Oil Co. (Indiana) v. United States,
283 U. S. 163, 171 (1931) (“Where there are legitimately
conflicting claims or threatened interferences, a settlement by
agreement, rather than litigation, is not precluded by the
[Sherman] Act”). Like most litigation, patent litigation is
settled all the time, and such settlements—which can include
agreements that clearly violate antitrust law, such as licenses
that fix prices, or agreements among competitors to divide
territory—do not ordinarily subject the litigants to
antitrust liability. See 1 H. Hovenkamp, M. Janis, M. Lemley, &
C. Leslie, IP and Antitrust §7.3, pp. 7–13 to 7–15
(2d ed. 2003) (hereinafter Hovenkamp).

															     The key, of course, is
that the patent holder—when doing anything, including
settling—must act within the scope of the patent. If its
actions go beyond the monopoly powers conferred by the patent, we
have held that such actions are subject to antitrust scrutiny. See,
e.g., United States v. Singer Mfg. Co., 374 U. S. 174
–197 (1963). If its actions are within the scope of the
patent, they are not subject to antitrust scrutiny, with two
exceptions concededly not applicable here: (1) when the parties
settle sham litigation, cf. Professional Real Estate Investors,
Inc. v. Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc., 508 U. S. 49
–61 (1993); and (2) when the litigation involves a patent
obtained through fraud on the Patent and Trademark Office. Walker
Process Equipment, supra, at 177.

															     Thus, under our
precedent, this is a fairly straight-forward case. Solvay paid a
competitor to respect its patent—conduct which did not exceed
the scope of its patent. No one alleges that there was sham
litigation, or that Solvay’s patent was obtained through
fraud on the PTO. As in any settlement, Solvay gave its competitors
something of value (money) and, in exchange, its competitors gave
it something of value (dropping their legal claims). In doing so,
they put an end to litigation that had been dragging on for three
years. Ordinarily, we would think this a good thing.

															II

															     Today, however, the
Court announces a new rule. It is willing to accept that
Solvay’s actions did not exceed the scope of its patent.
Ante, at 8. But it does not agree that this is enough to
“immunize the agreement from antitrust attack.” Ibid.
According to the majority, if a patent holder settles litigation by
paying an alleged infringer a “large and unjustified”
payment, in exchange for having the alleged infringer honor the
patent, a court should employ the antitrust rule of reason to
determine whether the settlement violates antitrust law. Ante, at
19.

															     The Court’s
justifications for this holding are unpersuasive. First, the
majority explains that “the patent here may or may not be
valid, and may or may not be infringed.” Ante, at 8. Because
there is “uncertainty” about whether the patent is
actually valid, the Court says that any questions regarding the
legality of the settlement should be “measur[ed]” by
“procompetitive antitrust policies,” rather than
“patent law policy.” Ante, at 9. This simply states the
conclusion. The difficulty with such an approach is that a patent
holder acting within the scope of its patent has an obvious defense
to any antitrust suit: that its patent allows it to engage in
conduct that would otherwise violate the antitrust laws. But again,
that’s the whole point of a patent: to confer a limited
monopoly. The problem, as the Court correctly recognizes, is that
we’re not quite certain if the patent is actually valid, or
if the competitor is infringing it. But that is always the case,
and is plainly a question of patent law.

															     The majority, however,
would assess those patent law issues according to “antitrust
policies.” According to the majority, this is what the Court
did in Line Material—i.e., it “accommodat[ed]”
antitrust principles and struck a “balance” between
patent and antitrust law. Ante, at 9. But the Court in Line
Material did no such thing. Rather, it explained that it is
“well settled that the possession of a valid patent or
patents does not give the patentee any exemption from the
provisions of the Sherman Act beyond the limits of the patent
monopoly.” 333 U. S., at 308 (emphasis added). It then,
in the very next sentence, stated that “[b]y aggregating
patents in one control, the holder of the patents cannot escape the
prohibitions of the Sherman Act.” Ibid. That second sentence
follows only if such conduct—the aggregation of multiple
patents—goes “beyond the limits of the patent
monopoly,” which is precisely what the Court concluded. See
id., at 312 (“There is no suggestion in the patent statutes
of authority to combine with other patent owners to fix prices on
articles covered by the respective patents” (emphasis
added)). The Court stressed, over and over, that a patent holder
does not violate the antitrust laws when it acts within the scope
of its patent. See id., at 305 (“Within the limits of the
patentee’s rights under his patent, monopoly of the process
or product by him is authorized by the patent statutes”);
id., at 310 (“price limitations on patented devices beyond
the limits of a patent monopoly violate the Sherman Act”
(emphasis added)).

															    
     The majority suggests that
“[w]hether a particular restraint lies ‘beyond the
limits of the patent monopoly’ is a conclusion that flows
from” applying traditional antitrust principles. Ante, at 10.
It seems to have in mind a regime where courts ignore the patent,
and simply conduct an antitrust analysis of the settlement without
regard to the validity of the patent. But a patent holder acting
within the scope of its patent does not engage in any unlawful
anticompetitive behavior; it is simply exercising the monopoly
rights granted to it by the Government. Its behavior would be
unlawful only if its patent were invalid or not infringed. And the
scope of the patent—i.e., what rights are conferred by the
patent—should be determined by reference to patent law. While
it is conceivable to set up a legal system where you assess the
validity of patents or questions of infringement by bringing an
antitrust suit, neither the majority nor the Government suggests
that Congress has done so.

															     Second, the majority
contends that “this Court’s precedents make clear that
patent-related settlement agreements can sometimes violate the
antitrust laws.” Ante, at 10. For this carefully worded
proposition, it cites Singer Manufacturing Co., United States v.
New Wrinkle, Inc., 342 U. S. 371 (1952) , and Standard Oil Co.
(Indiana). But each of those cases stands for the same,
uncontroversial point: that when a patent holder acts outside the
scope of its patent, it is no longer protected from antitrust
scrutiny by the patent.

															     To begin, the
majority’s description of Singer is inaccurate. In Singer,
several patent holders with competing claims entered into a
settlement agreement in which they cross-licensed their patents to
each other, and did so in order to disadvantage Japanese
competition. See 374 U. S., at 194–195 (finding that the
agreement had “a common purpose to suppress the Japanese
machine competition in the United States” (footnote
omitted)). According to the majority, the Court in Singer
“did not examine whether, on the assumption that all three
patents were valid, patent law would have allowed the
patents’ hold- ers to do the same.” Ante, at 10.
Rather, the majority contends, Singer held that this agreement
violated the anti-trust laws because “in important part
. . . ‘the public interest in granting patent
monopolies’ exists only to the extent that ‘the public
is given a novel and useful invention’ in
‘consideration for its grant.’ ” Ibid. (quoting
Singer, 374 U. S., at 199 (White, J., concurring)). But the
majority in Singer certainly did ask whether patent law permitted
such an arrangement, concluding that it did not. See id., at
196–197 (reiterating that it “is equally well settled
that the possession of a valid patent or patents does not give the
patentee any exemption from the provisions of the Sherman Act
beyond the limits of the patent monopoly” and holding that
“those limitations have been exceeded in this case”
(emphasis added; internal quotation marks omitted)); see also
Hovenkamp §7.2b, at 7–8, n. 15 (citing Singer as a
quintessential case in which patent holders were subject to
antitrust liability because their settlement agreement went beyond
the scope of their patents and thus conferred monopoly power beyond
what the patent lawfully authorized). Even Justice White’s
concurrence, on which the majority relies, emphasized that the
conduct at issue in Singer—collusion between patent holders
to exclude Japanese competition and to prevent disclosure of prior
art—was not authorized by the patent laws. 374 U. S., at
197, 200.

															     New Wrinkle is to the
same effect. There, the Court explained that because “[p]rice
control through cross-licensing [is] barred as beyond the patent
monopoly,” an “arrangement . . . made between patent
holders to pool their patents and fix prices on the products for
themselves and their licensees . . . plainly violate[s]
the Sherman Act.” 342 U. S., at 379, 380 (emphasis
added). As the Court further explained, a patent holder may not,
“ ‘acting in concert with all members of an
industry . . . issue substantially identical licenses to
all members of the industry under the terms of which the industry
is completely regimented, the production of competitive unpatented
products suppressed, a class of distributors squeezed out, and
prices on unpatented products stabilized.’ ” Id.,
at 379–380 (quoting United States v. United States Gypsum
Co., 333 U. S. 364, 400 (1948) ). The majority here, however,
ignores this discussion, and instead categorizes the case as
“applying antitrust scrutiny to [a] patent settlement.”
Ante, at 10.

															     Again, in Standard Oil
Co. (Indiana), the parties settled claims regarding
“competing patented processes for manufacturing an unpatented
product,” which threatened to create a monopoly over the
unpatented product. 283 U. S., at 175. The Court explained
that “an exchange of licenses for the purpose of curtailing
the . . . supply of an unpatented product, is beyond the privileges
conferred by the patents.” Id., at 174.

															     The majority is
therefore right to suggest that these “precedents make clear
that patent-related settlement agreements can sometimes violate the
antitrust laws.” Ante, at 10 (emphasis added). The key word
is sometimes. And those some times are spelled out in our prece-
dents. Those cases have made very clear that patent
settlements—and for that matter, any agreements relating to
patents—are subject to antitrust scrutiny if they confer
benefits beyond the scope of the patent. This makes sense. A patent
exempts its holder from the antitrust laws only insofar as the
holder operates within the scope of the patent. When the holder
steps outside the scope of the patent, he can no longer use the
patent as his defense. The majority points to no case where a
patent settlement was subject to antitrust scrutiny merely because
the validity of the patent was uncertain. Not one. It is
remarkable, and surely worth something, that in the 123 years since
the Sherman Act was passed, we have never let antitrust law cross
that Rubicon.

															     Next, the majority
points to the “general procompetitive thrust” of the
Hatch-Waxman Act, the fact that Hatch-Waxman “facilitat[es]
challenges to a patent’s validity,” and its
“provisions requiring parties to [such] patent dispute[s]
. . . to report settlement terms to the FTC and the
Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice.” Ante, at
13. The Hatch-Waxman Act surely seeks to encourage competition in
the drug market. And, like every law, it accomplishes its ends
through specific provisions. These provisions, for example, allow
generic manufacturers to enter the market without undergoing a
duplicative application process; they also grant a 180-day monopoly
to the first qualifying generic to commercially market a competing
product. See 21 U. S. C. §§355(j)(2)(A)(ii),
(iv), 355(j)(5)(B)(iv). So yes, the point of these provisions is to
encourage competition. But it should by now be trite—and
unnecessary—to say that “no legislation pursues its
purposes at all costs” and that “it frustrates rather
than effectuates legislative intent simplistically to assume that
whatever furthers the statute’s primary objective must be the
law.” Rodriguez v. United States, 480 U. S. 522
–526 (1987) (per curiam). It is especially disturbing here,
where the Court discerns from specific provisions a very broad
policy—a “general procompetitive thrust,” in its
words—and uses that policy to unsettle the established
relationship between patent and antitrust law. Ante, at 13. Indeed,
for whatever it may be worth, Congress has repeatedly declined to
enact legislation addressing the issue the Court takes on today.
See Brief for Actavis, Inc. 57 (citing 11 such bills introduced in
the House or Senate since 2006).

															     In addition, it is of
no consequence that settlement terms must be reported to the FTC
and the Department of Justice. Such a requirement does not increase
the role of antitrust law in scrutinizing patent settlements.
Rather, it ensures that such terms are scrutinized consistent with
existing antitrust law. In other words, it ensures that the FTC and
Antitrust Division can review the settlements to make sure that
they do not confer monopoly power beyond the scope of the
patent.

															     The majority suggests
that “[a]pparently most if not all reverse payment settlement
agreements arise in the context of pharmaceutical drug
regulation.” Ante, at 2. This claim is not supported
empirically by anything the majority cites, and seems unlikely. The
term “reverse payment agreement”—coined to create
the impression that such settlements are unique—simply
highlights the fact that the party suing ends up paying. But this
is no anomaly, nor is it evidence of a nefarious plot; it simply
results from the fact that the patent holder plaintiff is a
defendant against an invalidity counterclaim—not a rare
situation in intellectual property litigation. Whatever one might
call them, such settlements—paying an alleged infringer to
drop its invalidity claim—are a well-known feature of
intellectual property litigation, and reflect an intuitive way to
settle such disputes. See Metro-Goldwyn Mayer, Inc. v. 007 Safety
Prods., Inc., 183 F. 3d 10, 13 (CA1 1999); see also
Schildkraut, Patent-Splitting Settlements and the Reverse Payment
Fallacy, 71 Antitrust L. J. 1033, 1033, 1046–1049
(2004); Brief for Actavis 54, n. 20 (citing examples). To the
extent there are not scores and scores of these settlements to
point to, this is because such settlements—outside the
context of Hatch-Waxman—are private agreements that for
obvious reasons are generally not appealed, nor publicly
available.

															     The majority suggests
that reverse-payment agreements are distinct because “a party
with no claim for damages . . . walks away with money
simply so it will stay away from the patentee’s
market.” Ante, at 13. Again a distinction without a
difference. While the alleged infringer may not be suing for the
patent holder’s money, it is suing for the right to use and
market the (intellectual) property, which is worth money.

															     Finally, the majority
complains that nothing in “any patent statute” gives
patent-holders the right to settle when faced with allegations of
invalidity. Ante, at 12. But the right to settle generally
accompanies the right to litigate in the first place; no one
contends that drivers in an automobile accident may not settle
their competing claims merely because no statute grants them that
authority. The majority suggests that such a right makes it harder
to “eliminat[e] unwarranted patent grants.” Ibid. That
may be so, but such a result—true of all patent
settlements—is no reason to adjudicate questions of patent
law under antitrust principles. Our cases establish that antitrust
law has no business prying into a patent settlement so long as that
settlement confers to the patent holder no monopoly power beyond
what the patent itself conferred—unless, of course, the
patent was invalid, but that again is a question of patent law, not
antitrust law.

															     In sum, none of the
Court’s reasons supports its conclusion that a patent holder,
when settling a claim that its patent is invalid, is not immunized
by the fact that it is acting within the scope of its patent. And I
fear the Court’s attempt to limit its holding to the context
of patent settlements under Hatch-Waxman will not long hold.

															III

															     The majority’s
rule will discourage settlement of patent litigation. Simply put,
there would be no incentive to settle if, immediately after
settling, the parties would have to litigate the same
issue—the question of patent validity—as part of a
defense against an antitrust suit. In that suit, the alleged
infringer would be in the especially awkward position of being for
the patent after being against it.

															     This is unfortunate
because patent litigation is particularly complex, and particularly
costly. As one treatise noted, “[t]he median patent case that
goes to trial costs each side $1.5 million in legal fees”
alone. Hovenkamp §7.1c, at 7–5, n. 6. One study found
that the cost of litigation in this specific context—a
generic challenging a brand name pharmaceutical patent—was
about $10 million per suit. See Herman, Note, The Stay Dilemma:
Examining Brand and Generic Incentives for Delaying the Resolution
of Pharmaceutical Patent Litigation, 111 Colum. L. Rev. 1788,
1795, n. 41 (2011) (citing M. Goodman, G. Nachman, & L. Chen,
Morgan Stanley Equity Research, Quantifying the Impact from
Authorized Generics 9 (2004)).

															     The Court acknowledges
these problems but nonetheless offers “five sets of
considerations” that it tells us overcome these concerns: (1)
sometimes patent settlements will have “ ‘genuine
adverse effects on competition’ ”; (2)
“these anticompetitive consequences will at least sometimes
prove unjustified”; (3) “where a reverse payment
threatens to work unjustified anticompetitive harm, the patentee
likely possesses the power to bring that harm about in
practice”; (4) “it is normally not necessary to
litigate patent validity to answer the antitrust question”
because “[a]n unexplained large reverse payment itself would
normally suggest that the patentee has serious doubts about the
patent’s survival,” and using a “payment
. . . to prevent the risk of competition . . .
constitutes the relevant anticompetitive harm”; and (5)
parties may still “settle in other ways” such as
“by allowing the generic manufacturer to enter the
patentee’s market prior to the patent’s expiration,
without the patentee paying the challenger to stay out prior to
that point.” Ante, at 14–19 (emphasis added).

															     Almost all of these are
unresponsive to the basic problem that settling a patent claim
cannot possibly impose unlawful anticompetitive harm if the patent
holder is acting within the scope of a valid patent and therefore
permitted to do precisely what the antitrust suit claims is
unlawful. This means that in any such antitrust suit, the defendant
(patent holder) will want to use the validity of his patent as a
defense—in other words, he’ll want to say “I can
do this because I have a valid patent that lets me do this.”
I therefore don’t see how the majority can conclude that it
won’t normally be “necessary to litigate patent
validity to answer the antitrust question,” ante, at 18,
unless it means to suggest that the defendant (patent holder)
cannot raise his patent as a defense in an antitrust suit. But
depriving him of such a defense—if that’s what the
majority means to do—defeats the point of the patent, which
is to confer a lawful monopoly on its holder.

															     The majority seems to
think that even if the patent is valid, a patent holder violates
the antitrust laws merely because the settlement took away some
chance that his patent would be declared invalid by a court. See
ante, at 18–19 (“payment . . . to prevent the
risk of competition . . . constitutes the relevant
anticompetitive harm” (emphasis added)). This is flawed for
several reasons.

															     First, a patent is
either valid or invalid. The parties of course don’t know the
answer with certainty at the outset of litigation; hence the
litigation. But the same is true of any hard legal question that is
yet to be adjudicated. Just because people don’t know the
answer doesn’t mean there is no answer until a court declares
one. Yet the majority would impose antitrust liability based on the
parties’ subjective uncertainty about that legal
conclusion.

															     The Court does so on
the assumption that offering a “large” sum is reliable
evidence that the patent holder has serious doubts about the
patent. Not true. A patent holder may be 95% sure about the
validity of its patent, but particularly risk averse or litigation
averse, and willing to pay a good deal of money to rid itself of
the 5% chance of a finding of invalidity. What is actually
motivating a patent holder is apparently a question district courts
will have to resolve on a case-by-case basis. The task of trying to
discern whether a patent holder is motivated by uncertainty about
its patent, or other legitimate factors like risk aversion, will be
made all the more difficult by the fact that much of the evidence
about the party’s motivation may be embedded in legal advice
from its attorney, which would presumably be shielded from
discovery.

															     Second, the
majority’s position leads to absurd results. Let’s say
in 2005, a patent holder sues a competitor for infringement and
faces a counterclaim that its patent is invalid. The patent holder
determines that the risk of losing on the question of validity is
low, but after a year of litigating, grows increasingly risk
averse, tired of litigation, and concerned about the
company’s image, so it pays the competitor a
“large” payment, ante, at 18, in exchange for having
the competitor honor its patent. Then let’s say in 2006, a
different competitor, inspired by the first competitor’s
success, sues the patent holder and seeks a similar payment. The
patent holder, recognizing that this dynamic is unsustainable,
litigates this suit to conclusion, all the way to the Supreme
Court, which unanimously decides the patent was valid. According to
the majority, the first settlement would violate the antitrust laws
even though the patent was ultimately declared valid, because that
first settlement took away some chance that the patent would be
invalidated in the first go around. Under this approach, a patent
holder may be found liable under antitrust law for doing what its
perfectly valid patent allowed it to do in the first place; its sin
was to settle, rather than prove the correctness of its position by
litigating until the bitter end.

															     Third, this
logic—that taking away any chance that a patent will be
invalidated is itself an antitrust problem—cannot possibly be
limited to reverse-payment agreements, or those that are
“large.” Ibid. The Government’s brief
acknowledges as much, suggesting that if antitrust scru-tiny is
invited for such cash payments, it may also be required for
“other consideration” and “alternative
arrange-ments.” Brief for Petitioner 36, n. 7. For
example, when a patent holder licenses its product to a licensee at
a fixed monopoly price, surely it takes away some chance that its
patent will be challenged by that licensee. According to the
majority’s reasoning, that’s an antitrust problem that
must be analyzed under the rule of reason. But see General Elec.
Co., 272 U. S., at 488 (holding that a patent holder may
license its invention at a fixed price). Indeed, the Court’s
own solution—that patent holders should negotiate to allow
generics into the market sooner, rather than paying them
money—also takes away some chance that the generic would have
litigated until the patent was invalidated.

															     Thus, although the
question posed by this case is fundamentally a question of patent
law—i.e., whether Solvay’s patent was valid and
therefore permitted Solvay to pay competitors to honor the scope of
its patent—the majority declares that such questions should
henceforth be scrutinized by antitrust law’s unruly rule of
reason. Good luck to the district courts that must, when faced with
a patent settlement, weigh the “likely anticompetitive
effects, redeeming virtues, market power, and potentially
offsetting legal considerations present in the
circumstances.” Ante, at 9–10; but see Pacific Bell
Telephone Co. v. linkLine Communications, Inc., 555 U. S. 438,
452 (2009) (“We have repeatedly emphasized the importance of
clear rules in antitrust law”).

															IV

															     The majority invokes
“procompetitive antitrust policies,” ante, at 9, but
misses the basic point that patent laws promote consumer interests
in a different way, by pro-viding protection against competition.
As one treatise explains:

															“The purpose of the rule of reason
is to determine whether, on balance, a practice is reasonably
likely to be anticompetitive or competitively harmless—that
is, whether it yields lower or higher marketwide output. By
contrast, patent policy encompasses a set of judgments about the
proper tradeoff between competition and the incentive to innovate
over the long run. Antitrust’s rule of reason was not
designed for such judgments and is not adept at making them.”
Hovenkamp §7.3, at 7–13 (footnote omitted).

															     The majority recognizes
that “a high reverse payment” may “signal to
other potential challengers that the patentee lacks confidence in
its patent, thereby provoking addi-tional challenges.” Ante,
at 16. It brushes this off, how-ever, because of two features of
Hatch-Waxman that make it “ ‘not necessarily
so.’ ” Ibid. First, it points out that the first
challenger gets a 180-day exclusive period to market a generic
version of the brand name drug, and that subsequent challengers
cannot secure that exclusivity period—meaning when the patent
holder buys off the first challenger, it has bought off its most
motivated competitor. There are two problems with this argument.
First, according to the Food and Drug Administration, all
manufacturers who file on the first day are considered “first
applicants” who share the exclusivity period. Thus, if ten
gener- ics file an application to market a generic drug on the
first day, all will be considered “first applicants.”
See 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(5)(B)(iv)(II)(bb); see also
FDA, Guid- ance for Industry: 180-Day Exclusivity When Multiple
ANDAs Are Submitted on the Same Day 4 (July 2003). This is not an
unusual occurrence. See Brief for Generic Pharmaceutical
Association as Amicus Curiae 23–24 (citing FTC data
indicating that some drugs “have been subject to as many as
sixteen first-day” generic applications; that in 2005, the
average number of first-day applications per drug was 11; and that
between 2002 and 2008, the yearly average never dropped below three
first-day applications per drug).

															     Second, and more
fundamentally, the 180 days of exclusivity simply provides more
incentive for generic challenges. Even if a subsequent generic
would not be entitled to this additional incentive, it will have as
much or nearly as much incentive to challenge the patent as a
potential challenger would in any other context outside of
Hatch-Waxman, where there is no 180-day exclusivity period. And a
patent holder who gives away notably large sums of money because it
is, as the majority surmises, concerned about the strength of its
patent, would be putting blood in water where sharks are always
near.

															     The majority also
points to the fact that, under Hatch-Waxman, the FDA is enjoined
from approving a generic’s application to market a drug for
30 months if the brand name sues the generic for patent
infringement within 45 days of that application being filed. Ante,
at 16 (citing 21 U. S. C. §355(j)(5)(B)(iii)).
According to the majority, this provision will chill subsequent
generics from challenging the patent (because they will have to
wait 30 months before receiving FDA approval to market their drug).
But this overlooks an important feature of the law: the FDA may
approve the application before the 30 months are up “if
before the expiration of [the 30 months,] the district court
decides that the patent is invalid or not infringed.”
§355(j)(5)(B)(iii)(I). And even if the FDA did not have to
wait 30 months, it is far from clear that a generic would want to
market a drug prior to obtaining a judgment of invalidity or
noninfringement. Doing so may expose it to ruinous liability for
infringement.

															     The irony of all this
is that the majority’s decision may very well discourage
generics from challenging pharmaceutical patents in the first
place. Patent litigation is costly, time consuming, and uncertain.
See Cybor Corp. v. FAS Techs., Inc., 138 F. 3d 1448, 1476,
n. 4 (CA Fed. 1998) (opinion of Rader, J.) (en banc)
(discussing study showing that the Federal Circuit wholly or
partially reversed in almost 40 percent of claim construction
appeals in a 30-month period); Brief for Generic Pharmaceutical
Association as Amicus Curiae 16 (citing a 2010 study analyzing the
prior decade’s cases and showing that generics prevailed in
82 cases and lost in 89 cases). Generics “enter this risky
terrain only after careful analysis of the potential gains if they
prevail and the potential exposure if they lose.” Id., at 19.
Taking the prospect of settlements off the table—or limiting
settlements to an earlier entry date for the generic, which may
still be many years in the future—puts a damper on the
generic’s expected value going into litigation, and decreases
its incentive to sue in the first place. The majority assures us,
with no support, that everything will be okay because the parties
can settle by simply negotiating an earlier entry date for the
generic drug manufacturer, rather than settling with money. Ante,
at 17. But it’s a matter of common sense, confirmed by
experience, that parties are more likely to settle when they have a
broader set of valuable things to trade. See Brief for Mediation
and Negotiation Professionals as Amici Curiae 6–8.

															V

															     The majority today
departs from the settled approach separating patent and antitrust
law, weakens the protections afforded to innovators by patents,
frustrates the public policy in favor of settling, and likely
undermines the very policy it seeks to promote by forcing generics
who step into the litigation ring to do so without the prospect of
cash settlements. I would keep things as they were and not subject
basic questions of patent law to an unbounded inquiry under
antitrust law, with its treble damages and famously burdensome
discovery. See 15 U. S. C. §15; Bell Atlantic Corp.
v. Twombly, 550 U. S. 544 –559 (2007). I respectfully
dissent.

													
