::SCDB_caseID:: 2012-078
::decision_cite:: 570 U.S. 729 (2013)
::decision_name::  Sekhar v. United States
::decision_year:: 2013
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–357

															_________________

															GIRIDHAR C. SEKHAR, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[June 26, 2013]

															

															     Justice Alito, with
whom Justice Kennedy and Jus-tice Sotomayor join, concurring in the
judgment.

															     The question that we
must decide in this case is whether “the General
Counsel’s recommendation to approve the Commitment,”
App. 142—or his right to make that recommendation—is
property that is capable of being ex-torted under the Hobbs Act, 18
U. S. C. §1951. In my view, they are not.

															I

															     The jury in this case
returned a special verdict form and stated that the property that
petitioner attempted to extort was “the General
Counsel’s recommendation to approve the Commitment.”
What the jury obviously meant by this was the general
counsel’s internal suggestion to his superior that the state
government issue a nonbinding commitment to invest in a fund
managed by FA Technology Ventures. We must therefore decide whether
this nonbinding internal recommendation by a salaried state
employee constitutes “property” within the meaning of
the Hobbs Act, which defines “extortion” as “the
obtaining of property from another, with his con- sent, induced by
wrongful use of actual or threatened force, violence, or fear, or
under color of official right.” §1951(b)(2).

															     The Hobbs Act does not
define the term “property,” but even at common law the
offense of extortion was understood to include the obtaining of any
thing of value. 2 E. Coke, The First Part of the Institutes of the
Laws of England 368b (18th English ed. 1823) (“Extortion
. . . is a great misprison, by wresting or unlawfully
taking by any officer, by colour of his office, any money or
valuable thing of or from any man”); 4 W. Blackstone,
Commentaries *141 (extortion is “an abuse of public, justice
which consists in any officer’s unlawfully taking, by colour
of his office, from any man, any money or thing of value”).
See also 2 J. Bishop, Criminal Law §401, pp. 331–332
(9th ed. 1923) (“In most cases, the thing obtained is
money. . . . But probably anything of value will
suffice”); 3 F. Wharton, A Treatise on Criminal Law
§1898, p. 2095 (11th ed. 1912) (“[I]t is enough if any
valuable thing is received”).

															     At the time Congress
enacted the Hobbs Act, the contemporary edition of Black’s
Law Dictionary included an expansive definition of the term. See
Black’s Law Dictionary 1446 (3d ed. 1933). It stated that
“[t]he term is said to extend to every species of valuable
right and interest. . . . The word is also commonly
used to denote everything which is the subject of ownership,
corporeal or incorporeal, tangible or intangible, visible or
invisible, real or personal; everything that has an exchangeable
value or which goes to make up wealth or estate.” Id., at
1446–1447. And the lower courts have long given the term a
similarly expansive construction. See, e.g., United States v.
Tropiano, 418 F. 2d 1069, 1075 (CA2 1969) (“The concept of
prop-erty under the Hobbs Act . . . includes, in a broad
sense, any valuable right considered as a source or element of
wealth”).

															     Despite the breadth of
some of these formulations, however, the term
“property” plainly does not reach everything that a
person may hold dear; nor does it extend to everything that might
in some indirect way portend the possibility of future economic
gain. I do not suggest that the current lower court case law is
necessarily correct, but it seems clear that the case now before us
is an outlier and that the jury’s verdict stretches the
concept of property beyond the breaking point.

															     It is not customary to
refer to an internal recommendation to make a government decision
as a form of property. It would seem strange to say that the
government or its employees have a property interest in their
internal recommendations regarding such things as the issuance of a
building permit, the content of an environmental impact statement,
the approval of a new drug, or the indictment of an individual or a
corporation. And it would be even stranger to say that a private
party who might be affected by the government’s decision can
obtain a property interest in a recommendation to make the
decision. See, e.g., Doyle v. University of Alabama, 680 F. 2d
1323, 1326 (CA11 1982) (“Doyle had no protected property
interest in the mere recommendation for a raise; thus she was not
entitled to due process safeguards when the recommended raise was
disapproved by the University”).

															     Our decision in
Cleveland v. United States, 531 U. S. 12 (2000) , supports the
conclusion that internal recommendations regarding government
decisions are not property. In Cleveland, we vacated a business
owner’s conviction under the federal mail fraud statute, 18
U. S. C. §1341, for “obtaining money or
property” through misrepresentations made in an application
for a video poker license issued by the State. We held that a video
poker license is not property in the hands of the State. Cleveland,
supra, at 15. I do not suggest that the concepts of property under
the mail fraud statute and the Hobbs Act are necessarily the same.
But surely a video poker license has a stronger claim to be
classified as property than a mere internal recommendation that a
state government take an initial step that might lead eventually to
an investment that would be beneficial to private parties.

															     The Government has not
cited any Hobbs Act case holding that an internal recommendation
regarding a gov-ernment decision constitutes property. Nor has the
Government cited any other example of the use of the term
“property” in this sense.*

															     The Second Circuit
recharacterized the property that petitioner attempted to obtain as
the general counsel’s “right to make a recommendation
consistent with his legal judgment.” 683 F. 3d 436, 442
(2012). And the Government also presses that theory in this Court.
Brief for United States 15, 34–45. According to the
Government, the general counsel’s property interest in his
recommendation encompasses the right to make the recommendation.
Id., at 35–36. But this argument assumes that the
recommendation itself is property. See id., at 35 (the general
counsel’s “ ‘recommendation’ and his
‘right to make the recommendation’ are merely different
expressions of the same property”). If an internal
recommendation regarding a government decision does not constitute
property, then surely a government employee’s right to make
such a recommendation is not property either (nor could it be
deemed a property right).

															II

															     The Government argues
that the recommendation was the general counsel’s personal
property because it was inextricably related to his right to pursue
his profession as an attorney. See id., at 34–35. But that
argument is clearly wrong: If the general counsel had left the
State’s employ before submitting the recommendation, he could
not have taken the recommendation with him, and he certainly could
not have given it or sold it to someone else. Therefore, it is
obvious that the recommendation (and the right to make it) were
inextricably related to the general counsel’s position with
the government, and not to his broader personal right to pursue the
practice of law.

															     The general
counsel’s job surely had economic value to him, as did his
labor as a lawyer, his law license, and his reputation as an
attorney. But the indictment did not allege, and the jury did not
find, that petitioner attempted to obtain those things. Nor would
such a theory make sense in the context of this case. Petitioner
did not, for example, seek the general counsel’s legal advice
or demand that the general counsel represent him in a legal
proceeding. Cf. United States v. Thompson, 647 F. 3d 180,
186–187 (CA5 2011) (a person’s labor is property
capable of being extorted). Nor did petitioner attempt to enhance
his own ability to compete with the general counsel for legal work
by threatening to do something that would, say, tarnish the general
counsel’s reputation or cause his law license to be revoked.
Cf. Tropiano, 418 F. 2d, at 1071–1072, 1075–1077
(threats to competitor in order to obtain customers constitute
extortion); United States v. Zemek, 634 F. 2d 1159,
1173–1174 (CA9 1980) (same); United States v. Coffey, 361
F. Supp. 2d 102, 108–109 (EDNY 2005) (the right to
pursue a lawful business is extortable property under the Hobbs
Act).

															     The Court holds that
petitioner’s conduct does not amount to attempted extortion,
but for a different reason: According to the Court, the alleged
property that petitioner pursued was not transferrable and
therefore is not capable of being “obtained.” Ante, at
4–5, 7–8. Because I do not believe that the item in
question constitutes prop-erty, it is unnecessary for me to
determine whether or not petitioner sought to obtain it.

															*  *  *

															     If Congress had
wanted to classify internal recommendations pertaining to
government decisions as property, I think it would have spoken more
clearly than it did in the Hobbs Act. But even if the Hobbs Act
were ambiguous on this point, the rule of lenity would counsel in
favor of an interpretation of the statute that does not reach so
broadly, see Scheidler v. National Organization for Women, Inc.,
537 U. S. 393, 409 (2003) . This is not to say that the
Government could not have prosecuted petitioner for ex-tortion on
these same facts under some other theory. The question before us is
whether the general counsel’s recommendation—or the
right to make it—constitutes property under the Hobbs Act. In
my view, they do not.

															     For these reasons, I
concur in the Court’s judgment.

Notes
1
* To recognize that an
internal recommendation regarding a government decision is not
property does not foreclose the possibility that threatening a
government employee, as the government’s agent, in order to
secure government property could qualify as Hobbs Act extortion.
Here, after all, petitioner’s ultimate goal was to secure an
investment of money from the government. But the jury found only
that petitioner had attempted to obtain the general counsel’s
recommendation, so I have no occasion to consider whether a Hobbs
Act conviction could have been sustained on a different legal
theory.


