::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-011
::decision_cite:: 571 U.S. 117 (2014)
::decision_name::  Daimler AG v. Bauman
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–965

															_________________

															DAIMLER AG, PETITIONER v. BARBARABAUMAN et
al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[January 14, 2014]

															

															     Justice Sotomayor,
concurring in the judgment.

															     I agree with the
Court’s conclusion that the Due Process Clause prohibits the
exercise of personal jurisdiction over Daimler in light of the
unique circumstances of this case. I concur only in the judgment,
however, because I cannot agree with the path the Court takes to
arrive at that result.

															     The Court acknowledges
that Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (MBUSA), Daimler’s wholly owned
subsidiary, has considerable contacts with California. It has
multiple facilities in the State, including a regional
headquarters. Each year, it distributes in California tens of
thousands of cars, the sale of which generated billions of dollars
in the year this suit was brought. And it provides service and
sales support to customers throughout the State. Daimler has
conceded that California courts may exercise general jurisdiction
over MBUSA on the basis of these contacts, and the Court assumes
that MBUSA’s contacts may be attributed to Daimler for the
purpose of deciding whether Daimler is also subject to general
jurisdiction.

															     Are these contacts
sufficient to permit the exercise of general jurisdiction over
Daimler? The Court holds that they are not, for a reason wholly
foreign to our due process jurisprudence. The problem, the Court
says, is not that Daimler’s contacts with California are too
few, but that its contacts with other forums are too many. In other
words, the Court does not dispute that the presence of multiple
offices, the direct distribution of thousands of products
accounting for billions of dollars in sales, and continuous
interaction with customers throughout a State would be enough to
support the exercise of general jurisdiction over some businesses.
Daimler is just not one of those businesses, the Court concludes,
because its California contacts must be viewed in the context of
its extensive “nationwide and worldwide” operations.
Ante, at 21, n. 20. In recent years, Americans have grown
accustomed to the concept of multinational corporations that are
supposedly “too big to fail”; today the Court deems
Daimler “too big for general jurisdiction.”

															     The Court’s
conclusion is wrong as a matter of both process and substance. As
to process, the Court decides this case on a ground that was
neither argued nor passed on below, and that Daimler raised for the
first time in a footnote to its brief. Brief for Petitioner
31–32, n. 5. Asto substance, the Court’s focus on
Daimler’s operations out-side of California ignores the
lodestar of our personal jurisdiction jurisprudence: A State may
subject a defendant to the burden of suit if the defendant has
sufficiently taken advantage of the State’s laws and
protections through its contacts in the State; whether the
defendant has contacts elsewhere is immaterial.

															     Regrettably, these
errors are unforced. The Court can and should decide this case on
the far simpler ground that, no matter how extensive
Daimler’s contacts with California, that State’s
exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable given that the case
involves foreign plaintiffs suing a foreign defendant based on
foreign conduct, and given that a more appropriate forum is
available. Because I would reverse the judgment below on this
ground, I concur in the judgment only.

															I

															     I begin with the
point on which the majority and I agree: The Ninth Circuit’s
decision should be reversed.

															     Our personal
jurisdiction precedents call for a two-part analysis. The contacts
prong asks whether the defendant has sufficient contacts with the
forum State to support personal jurisdiction; the reasonableness
prong asks whether the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable under the circumstances. Burger King Corp. v.
Rudzewicz, 471 U. S. 462 –478 (1985). As the majority
points out, all of the cases in which we have applied the
reasonableness prong have involved specific as opposed to general
jurisdiction. Ante, at 21, n. 20. Whether the reasonableness prong
should apply in the general jurisdiction context is therefore a
question we have never decided,[1] and it is one on which I can appreciate the arguments
on both sides. But it would be imprudent to decide that question in
this case given that respondents have failed to argue against the
application of the reasonableness prong during the entire 8-year
history of this litigation. See Brief for Respondents 11, 12, 13,
16 (conceding application of the reasonableness inquiry);
Plaintiffs’ Opposition to Defendant’s Motion to Quash
Service of Process and to Dismiss for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction
in No. 04–00194–RMW (ND Cal., May 16, 2005), pp.
14–23 (same). As a result, I would decide this case under the
reasonableness prong without foreclosing future consideration of
whether that prong should be limited to the specific jurisdiction
context.[2]

															     We identified the
factors that bear on reasonableness in Asahi Metal Industry Co. v.
Superior Court of Cal., Solano Cty., 480 U. S. 102 (1987) :
“the burden on the defendant, the interests of the forum
State,” “the plaintiff’s interest in obtaining
relief” in the forum State, and the interests of other
sovereigns in resolving the dispute. Id., at 113–114. We held
in Asahi that it would be “unreasonable and unfair” for
a California court to exercise jurisdiction over a claim between a
Taiwanese plaintiff and a Japanese defendant that arose out of a
transaction in Taiwan, particularly where the Taiwanese plaintiff
had not shown that it would be more convenient to litigate in
California than in Taiwan or Japan. Id., at 114.

															     The same considerations
resolve this case. It involves Argentine plaintiffs suing a German
defendant for conduct that took place in Argentina. Like the
plaintiffs in Asahi, respondents have failed to show that it would
be more convenient to litigate in California than in Germany, a
sovereign with a far greater interest in resolving the dispute.
Asahi thus makes clear that it would be unreasonable for a court in
California to subject Daimler to its jurisdiction.

															II

															     The majority
evidently agrees that, if the reasonableness prong were to apply,
it would be unreasonable for California courts to exercise
jurisdiction over Daimler in this case. See ante, at 20–21
(noting that it would be “exor-bitant” for California
courts to exercise general jurisdiction over Daimler, a German
defendant, in this “Argentina-rooted case” brought by
“foreign plaintiffs”). But instead of resolving the
case on this uncontroversial basis, the majority reaches out to
decide it on a ground neither argued nor decided below.[3]

															     We generally do not
pass on arguments that lower courts have not addressed. See, e.g.,
Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U. S. 709, 718, n. 7 (2005) . After
all, “we are a court of review, not of first view.”
Ibid. This principle carries even greater force where the argument
at issue was never pressed below. See Glover v. United States, 531
U. S. 198, 205 (2001) . Yet the majority disregards this
principle, basing its decision on an argument raised for the first
time in a footnote of Daimler’s merits brief before this
Court. Brief for Petitioner 32, n. 5 (“Even if MBUSA
were a division of Daimler AG rather than a separate corporation,
Daimler AG would still . . . not be ‘at home’ in
California”).

															     The majority’s
decision is troubling all the more because the parties were not
asked to brief this issue. We granted certiorari on the question
“whether it violates due process for a court to exercise
general personal jurisdiction over a foreign corporation based
solely on the fact that an indirect corporate subsidiary performs
services on behalf of the defendant in the forum State.” Pet.
for Cert. i. At no point in Daimler’s petition for certiorari
did the company contend that, even if this attribution question
were de-cided against it, its contacts in California would still be
in-sufficient to support general jurisdiction. The parties’
merits briefs accordingly focused on the attribution-of-contacts
question, addressing the reasonableness inquiry (which had been
litigated and decided below) in most of the space that remained.
See Brief for Petitioner 17–37, 37–43; Brief for
Respondents 18–47, 47–59.

															     In bypassing the
question on which we granted certio-rari to decide an issue not
litigated below, the Court leaves respondents “without an
unclouded opportunity to airthe issue the Court today decides
against them,” Comcast Corp. v. Behrend, 569 U. S. ___,
___ (2013) (Ginsburg and Breyer, JJ., dissenting) (slip op., at 3).
Doing so “does ‘not reflect well on the processes of
the Court.’ ” Ibid. (quoting Redrup v. New York,
386 U. S. 767, 772 (1967) (Harlan, J., dissenting)).
“And by resolving a complex and fact-intensive question
without the benefit of full briefing, the Court invites the error
into which it has fallen.” 569 U. S., at ___ (slip op.,
at 3).

															     The relevant facts are
undeveloped because Daimler conceded at the start of this
litigation that MBUSA is subject to general jurisdiction based on
its California contacts. We therefore do not know the full extent
of those contacts, though what little we do know suggests that
Daimler was wise to concede what it did. MBUSA imports more than
200,000 vehicles into the United States and distributes many of
them to independent dealerships in California, where they are sold.
Declaration of Dr. Peter Waskönig in Bauman v. DaimlerChrysler
Corp., No. 04–00194–RMW (ND Cal.), ¶ 10,
p. 2. MBUSA’s California sales account for 2.4% of
Daimler’s worldwide sales, which were $192 billion in
2004.[4] And 2.4% of $192
billion is $4.6 billion, a considerable sum by any measure. MBUSA
also has multiple offices and facilities in California, including a
regional headquarters.

															     But the record does not
answer a number of otherimportant questions. Are any of
Daimler’s key files maintained in MBUSA’s California
offices? How many employees work in those offices? Do those
employees makeimportant strategic decisions or oversee in any
manner Daimler’s activities? These questions could well
affect whether Daimler is subject to general jurisdiction. After
all, this Court upheld the exercise of general jurisdiction in
Perkins v. Benguet Consol. Mining Co., 342 U. S. 437
–448 (1952)—which the majority refers to as a
“textbook case” of general jurisdiction, ante, at
10—on the basis that the foreign defendant maintained an
office in Ohio, kept corporate files there, and oversaw the
company’s activities from the State. California-based MBUSA
employees may well have done similar things on Daimler’s
behalf.[5] But because the
Court decides the issue without a developed record, we will never
know.

															III

															     While the
majority’s decisional process is problematic enough, I fear
that process leads it to an even more troubling result.

															A

															     Until today, our
precedents had established a straightforward test for general
jurisdiction: Does the defendant have “continuous corporate
operations within a state” that are “so substantial and
of such a nature as to justify suit against it on causes of action
arising from dealings entirely distinct from those
activities”? International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326
U. S. 310, 318 (1945) ; see also Helicop-teros Nacionales de
Colombia, S. A. v. Hall, 466 U. S. 408, 416 (1984)
(asking whether defendant had “continuous and systematic
general business contacts”).[6] In every case where we have applied this test, we have
focused solely on the magnitude of the defendant’s in-state
contacts, not the relative magnitude of those contacts in
comparison to the defendant’s contacts with other States.

															     In Perkins, for
example, we found an Ohio court’s exercise of general
jurisdiction permissible where the president of the foreign
defendant “maintained an office,” “drew and
distributed . . . salary checks,” used “two active bank
accounts,” “supervised . . . the rehabilitation of the
corporation’s properties in the Philippines,” and held
“directors’ meetings,” in Ohio. 342 U. S.,
at 447–448. At no point did we attempt to catalog the
company’s contacts in forums other than Ohio or to compare
them with its Ohio contacts. If anything, we intimated that the
defendant’s Ohio contacts were not substantial in comparison
to its contacts elsewhere. See id., at 438 (noting that the
defendant’s Ohio contacts, while “continuous and
systematic,” were but a “limited . . . part
of its general business”).[7]

															     We engaged in the same
inquiry in Helicopteros. There, we held that a Colombian
corporation was not subject to general jurisdiction in Texas simply
because it occasion-ally sent its employees into the State,
accepted checks drawn on a Texas bank, and purchased equipment and
services from a Texas company. In no sense did our analysis turn on
the extent of the company’s operations beyond Texas.

															     Most recently, in
Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S. A. v. Brown, 564
U. S. ___ (2011), our analysis again focused on the
defendant’s in-state contacts. Goodyear involved a suit
against foreign tire manufacturers by North Carolina residents
whose children had died in a bus accident in France. We held that
North Carolina courts could not exercise general jurisdiction over
the foreign defendants. Just as in Perkins and Helicopteros, our
opinion in Goodyear did not identify the defendants’ contacts
outside of the forum State, but focused instead on the
defendants’ lack of offices, employees, direct sales, and
business operations within the State.

															     This approach follows
from the touchstone principle of due process in this field, the
concept of reciprocal fairness. When a corporation chooses to
invoke the benefits and protections of a State in which it
operates, the State acquires the authority to subject the company
to suit in its courts. See International Shoe, 326 U. S., at
319 (“[T]o the extent that a corporation exercises the
privilege of conducting activities within a state, it enjoys the
benefits and protection of the laws of that state” such that
an “obligatio[n] arise[s]” to respond there to suit);
J. McIntyre Machinery, Ltd. v. Nicastro, 564 U. S. ___, ___
(2011) (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 5) (same principle for
generaljurisdiction). The majority’s focus on the extent of a
corporate defendant’s out-of-forum contacts is untethered
from this rationale. After all, the degree to which a company
intentionally benefits from a forum State depends on its
interactions with that State, not its interactions elsewhere. An
article on which the majority relies (and on which Goodyear relied
as well, 564 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 7)) expresses the
point well: “We should not treat defendants as less amenable
to suit merely because they carry on more substantial business in
other states . . . . [T]he amount of activity elsewhere seems
virtually irrelevant to . . . the imposition of general
jurisdiction over a defendant.” Brilmayer et al., A
General Look at General Jurisdiction, 66 Texas L. Rev. 721,
742 (1988).

															     Had the majority
applied our settled approach, it would have had little trouble
concluding that Daimler’s California contacts rise to the
requisite level, given the majority’s assumption that
MBUSA’s contacts may be attributed to Daimler and given
Daimler’s concession that those contacts render MBUSA
“at home” in California. Our cases have long stated the
rule that a defendant’s contacts with a forum State must be
continuous, substantial, and systematic in order for the defendant
to be subject to that State’s general jurisdiction. See
Perkins, 342 U. S., at 446. We offered additional guidance in
Goodyear, adding the phrase “essentially at home” to
our prior formulation of the rule. 564 U. S., at ___ (slip
op., at 2) (a State may exercise general jurisdiction where a
defendant’s “affiliations with the State are so
‘continuous and systematic’ as to render [the
defendant] essentially at home in the forum State”). We used
the phrase “at home” to signify that in order for an
out-of-state defendant to be subject to general jurisdiction, its
continuous and substantial contacts with a forum State must be akin
to those of a local enterprise that actually is “at
home” in the State. See Brilmayer, supra, at 742.[8]

															     Under this standard,
Daimler’s concession that MBUSA is subject to general
jurisdiction in California (a concession the Court accepts, ante,
at 15, 17) should be dispositive. For if MBUSA’s California
contacts are so substantial and the resulting benefits to MBUSA so
significant as to make MBUSA “at home” in California,
the same must be true of Daimler when MBUSA’s contacts and
benefits are viewed as its own. Indeed, until a footnote in its
brief before this Court, even Daimler did not dispute this
conclusion for eight years of the litigation.

															B

															     The majority today
concludes otherwise. Referring to the “continuous and
systematic” contacts inquiry that has been taught to
generations of first-year law students as “unacceptably
grasping,” ante, at 19, the majority announces the new rule
that in order for a foreign defendant to be subject to general
jurisdiction, it must not only possess continuous and systematic
contacts with a forum State, but those contacts must also surpass
some unspecified level when viewed in comparison to the
company’s “nationwide and worldwide” activities.
Ante, at 21, n. 20.[9]

															     Neither of the
majority’s two rationales for this proportionality
requirement is persuasive. First, the majority suggests that its
approach is necessary for the sake of predictability. Permitting
general jurisdiction in every State where a corporation has
continuous and substantial contacts, the majority asserts, would
“scarcely permit out-of-state defendants ‘to structure
their primary conduct with some minimum assurance as to where that
conduct will and will not render them liable to
suit.’ ” Ante, at 21 (quoting Burger King Corp.,
471 U. S., at 472). But there is nothing unpredictable about a
rule that instructs multinational corporations that if they engage
in continuous and substantial contacts with more than one State,
they will be subject to general jurisdiction in each one. The
majority may not favor that rule as a matter of policy, but such
disagreement does not render an otherwise routine test
unpredictable.

															     Nor is the
majority’s proportionality inquiry any more predictable than
the approach it rejects. If anything, the majority’s approach
injects an additional layer of uncertainty because a corporate
defendant must now try to foretell a court’s analysis as to
both the sufficiency of its contacts with the forum State itself,
as well as the relative sufficiency of those contacts in light of
the company’s operations elsewhere. Moreover, the majority
does not even try to explain just how extensive the
company’sin-state contacts must be in the context of its
global oper-ations in order for general jurisdiction to be
proper.

															     The majority’s
approach will also lead to greater unpredictability by radically
expanding the scope of jurisdictional discovery. Rather than
ascertaining the extent of a corporate defendant’s
forum-state contacts alone, courts will now have to identify the
extent of a company’s contacts in every other forum where it
does business in order to compare them against the company’s
in-state contacts. That considerable burden runs headlong into the
major-ity’s recitation of the familiar principle that
“ ‘[s]imple jurisdictional rules . . .
promote greater predictability.’ ” Ante, at
18–19 (quoting Hertz Corp. v. Friend, 559 U. S. 77, 94
(2010) ).

															     Absent the
predictability rationale, the majority’s sole remaining
justification for its proportionality approach is its unadorned
concern for the consequences. “If Daimler’s California
activities sufficed to allow adjudication of this Argentina-rooted
case in California,” the majority laments, “the same
global reach would presumably be available in every other State in
which MBUSA’s sales are sizable.” Ante, at 20.

															     The majority
characterizes this result as “exorbitant,” ibid., but
in reality it is an inevitable consequence of the rule of due
process we set forth nearly 70 years ago, that there are
“instances in which [a company’s] continuous corporate
operations within a state” are “so substantial and of
such a nature as to justify suit against it on causes of action
arising from dealings entirely distinct from those
activities,” International Shoe, 326 U. S., at 318. In
the era of International Shoe, it was rare for a corporation to
have such substantial nationwide contacts that it would be subject
to general jurisdiction in a large number of States. Today, that
circumstance is less rare. But that is as it should be. What has
changed since International Shoe is not the due process principle
of fundamental fairness but rather the nature of the global
economy. Just as it was fair to say in the 1940’s that an
out-of-state company could enjoy the benefits of a forum State
enough to make it “essentially at home” in the State,
it is fair to say today that a multinational conglomerate can enjoy
such extensive benefits in multiple forum States that it is
“essentiallyat home” in each one.

															     In any event, to the
extent the majority is concerned with the modern-day consequences
of International Shoe’s conception of personal jurisdiction,
there remain other judicial doctrines available to mitigate any
resulting unfairness to large corporate defendants. Here, for
instance, the reasonableness prong may afford petitioner relief.
See supra, at 3–4. In other cases, a defendant can assert the
doctrine of forum non conveniens if a given State is a highly
inconvenient place to litigate a dispute. See Gulf Oil Corp. v.
Gilbert, 330 U. S. 501 –509 (1947). In still other
cases, the federal change of venue statute can provide protection.
See 28 U. S. C. §1404(a) (permitting transfers to
other districts “[f]or the convenience of parties and
witnesses” and “in the interests of justice”).
And to the degree that the majority worries these doctrines are not
enough to protect the economic interests of multinational
businesses (or that our longstanding approach to general
jurisdiction poses “risks to international comity,”
ante, at 22), the task of weighing those policy concerns belongs
ultimately to legislators, who may amend state and federal long-arm
statutes in accordance with the democratic process. Unfortunately,
the majority short circuits that process by enshrining
today’s narrow rule of general jurisdiction as a matter of
constitutional law.

															C

															     The majority’s
concern for the consequences of its decision should have led it the
other way, because the rule that it adopts will produce deep
injustice in at least four respects.

															     First, the
majority’s approach unduly curtails the States’
sovereign authority to adjudicate disputes against corporate
defendants who have engaged in continuous and substantial business
operations within their boundaries.[10] The majority does not dispute that a State can
exercise general jurisdiction where a corporate defendant has its
corporate headquarters, and hence its principal place of business
within the State. Cf. Hertz Corp., 559 U. S., at 93. Yet it
never explains why the State should lose that power when, as is
increasingly common, a corporation “divide[s] [its] command
and coordinating functions among officers who work at several
different locations.” Id., at 95–96. Suppose a company
divides its management functions equally among three offices in
different States, with one office nominally deemed the
company’s corporate headquarters. If the State where the
headquarters is located can exercise general jurisdiction, why
should the other two States be constitutionally forbidden to do the
same? Indeed, under the majority’s approach, the result would
be unchanged even if the company has substantial operations within
the latter two States (and even if the company has no sales or
other business operations in the first State). Put simply, the
majority’s rule defines the Due Process Clause so narrowly
and arbitrarily as to contravene the States’ sovereign
prerogative to subject to judgment defendants who have manifested
an unqualified “intention to benefit from and thus an
intention to submit to the[ir] laws,” J. McIntyre, 564
U. S., at ___ (plurality opinion) (slip op., at 5).

															     Second, the
proportionality approach will treat small businesses unfairly in
comparison to national and multinational conglomerates. Whereas a
larger company will often be immunized from general jurisdiction in
a State on account of its extensive contacts outside the forum, a
small business will not be. For instance, the majority holds today
that Daimler is not subject to general jurisdiction in California
despite its multiple offices, continuous operations, and billions
of dollars’ worth of sales there. But imagine a small
business that manufactures luxury vehicles principally targeting
the California market and that has substantially all of its sales
and operations in the State—even though those sales and
operations may amount to one-thousandth of Daimler’s. Under
the majority’s rule, that small business will be subject to
suit in California on any cause of action involving any of its
activities anywhere in the world, while its far more pervasive
competitor, Daimler, will not be. That will be so even if the small
business incorporates and sets up its headquarters elsewhere (as
Daimler does), since the small business’ California sales and
operations would still predominate when “apprais[ed]”
in proportion to its minimal “nationwide and worldwide”
operations, ante, at 21, n. 20.

															     Third, the
majority’s approach creates the incongruous result that an
individual defendant whose only contact with a forum State is a
one-time visit will be subject to general jurisdiction if served
with process during that visit, Burnham v. Superior Court of Cal.,
County of Marin, 495 U. S. 604 (1990) , but a large corporation
that owns property, employs workers, and does billions of
dollars’ worth of business in the State will not be, simply
because the corporation has similar contacts elsewhere (though the
visiting individual surely does as well).

															     Finally, it should be
obvious that the ultimate effect of the majority’s approach
will be to shift the risk of loss from multinational corporations
to the individuals harmed by their actions. Under the
majority’s rule, for example, a parent whose child is maimed
due to the negligence of a foreign hotel owned by a multinational
conglomerate will be unable to hold the hotel to account in a
single U. S. court, even if the hotel company has a massive
presence in multiple States. See, e.g., Meier v. Sun Int’l
Hotels, Ltd., 288 F. 3d 1264 (CA11 2002).[11] Similarly, a U. S. business that enters into
a contract in a foreign country to sell its products to a
multinational company there may be unable to seek relief in any
U. S. court if the multinational company breaches the
contract, even if that company has considerable operations in
numerous U. S. forums. See, e.g., Walpex Trading Co. v. Yacimientos
Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos, 712 F. Supp. 383 (SDNY
1989).[12] Indeed, the
majority’s approach would preclude the plaintiffs in these
examples from seeking recourse anywhere in the United States even
if no other judicial system was available to provide relief. I
cannot agree with the major-ity’s conclusion that the Due
Process Clause requires these results.

															* * *

															     The Court rules
against respondents today on a ground that no court has considered
in the history of this case, that this Court did not grant
certiorari to decide, and that Daimler raised only in a footnote of
its brief. In doing so, the Court adopts a new rule of
constitutional law that is unmoored from decades of precedent.
Because I would reverse the Ninth Circuit’s decision on the
narrower ground that the exercise of jurisdiction over Daimler
would be unreasonable in any event, I respectfully concur in the
judgment only.

Notes
1
 The Courts of Appeals
have uniformly held that the reasonableness prong does in fact
apply in the general jurisdiction context. See v. ., 84 F. 3d
560, 573 (CA2 1996) (“[E]very circuit that has considered the
question has held, implicitly or explicitly, that the
reasonableness inquiry is applicable to questions of personal
jurisdiction, general or specific”); see also, v. , 348
F. 3d 704, 713 (CA8 2003);v. ,” 283 F. 3d 208,
213–214 (CA4 2002); v., 90 F. 3d 1523, 1533 (CA10 1996);
v., 1 F. 3d 848, 851, n. 2 (CA9 1993); v., 893 F. 2d
459, 465 (CA1 1990); v., 818 F. 2d 370, 377 (CA5 1987).
Without the benefit of a single page of briefing on the issue, the
majority casually adds each of these cases to the mounting list of
decisions jettisoned as a consequence of today’s ruling. See
at 21, n. 20.
2
 While our decisions
rejecting the exercise of personal jurisdiction have typically done
so under the minimum-contacts prong, we have never required that
prong to be decided first. See v., (Stevens, J., concurring in part
and concurring in judgment) (rejecting personal jurisdiction under
the reasonableness prong and declining to consider the
minimum-contacts prong because doing so would not be
“necessary”). And although the majority frets that
deciding this case on the reasonableness ground would be “a
resolution fit for this day and case only,” , at 21, n. 20, I
do not understand our constitutional duty to require
otherwise.
3
 The majority appears to
suggest that Daimler may have presented the argument in its
petition for rehearing en banc before the Ninth Circuit. See at 5
(stating that Daimler “urg[ed] that the exercise of personal
jurisdiction . . . could not be reconciled with this Court’s
decision in v. , 564 U. S. ___ (2011)”). But Daimler’s
petition for rehearing did not arguewhat the Court holds today. The
Court holds that Daimler’s Califor-nia contacts would be
insufficient for general jurisdiction even assuming that
MBUSA’s contacts may be attributed to Daimler.
Daimler’s rehearing petition made a distinct
argument—that attribution of MBUSA’s contacts should
not be permitted under an “ ‘agency’
theory” because doing so would “rais[e] significant
constitutional concerns” under . Petition for Rehearing or
Rehearing En Banc in No. 07–15386 (CA9),
p. 9.
4
 See DaimlerChrysler,
Innovations for our Customers: Annual Report2004, p. 22,
http://www.daimler.com/Projects/c2c/channel/documents/1364377_2004_DaimlerChrysler_Annual_Report.pdf
(as visited on Jan. 8, 2014, and available in Clerk of
Court’s case file).
5
 To be sure, many of
Daimler’s key management decisions are undoubtedly made by
employees outside California. But the same was true in . See v. ,
88 Ohio App. 118, 124, 95 N. E. 2d 5, 8 (1950) () (describing
management decisions made by the company’s chief of staff in
Manila and a purchasing agent in California); see also
n. 8,
6
 While formulated the
general jurisdiction inquiry as asking whether a foreign defendant
possesses “continuous and systematic general business
contacts,” 466 U. S., at 416, the majority correctly
notesat 19, that used the phrase “continuous and
systematic” in the context of discussing specific
jurisdiction, 326 U. S., at 317. But the majority recognizes
that separately described the type of contacts needed for general
jurisdiction as “continuous corporate operations” that
are “so substantial” as to justify suit on unrelated
causes of action. ., at 318. It is unclear why our precedents
departed from ’s “continuous and substantial”
formulation in favor of the “continuous and systematic”
formulation, but the majority does not contend—nor do I
perceive—that there is a material difference between the
two.
7
 The majority suggests
that I misinterpret language in that I do not even cite. , at 11,
n. 8. The majority is quite correct that it has found a sentence in
that does not address whether most of the Philippine
corporation’s activities took place outside of Ohio. See , at
11, n. 8 (noting that described the company’s “wartime
activities” as “necessarily limited,” 342 U. S.,
at 448). That is why I did not mention it. I instead rely on a
sentence in ’ opening paragraph: “The [Philippine]
corporation has been carrying on in Ohio a continuous and
systematic, but limited, part of its general business.” , at
438. That sentence obviously does convey that most of the
corporation’s activities occurred in “places other than
Ohio,” , at 11, n. 8. This is not surprising given that
the company’s Ohio contacts involved a single officer working
from a home office, while its non-Ohio contacts included
significant mining properties and machinery operated throughout the
Philippines, Philippine employees (including a chief of staff), a
purchasing agent based in California, and board of directors
meetings held in Washington, New York, and San Francisco. ,88 Ohio
App., at 123–124, 95 N. E. 2d, at 8; see also
n. 8,
8
 The majority views the
phrase “at home” as serving a
differentpurpose—that of requiring a comparison between a
defendant’s in-state and out-of-state contacts. at 21, n. 20.
That cannot be the correct understanding though, because among
other things it would cast grave doubt on —a case that
pointed to as an exemplar of general jurisdiction, 564 U. S.,
at ___ (slip op., at 11). For if had applied the majority’s
newly minted proportionality test, it would have come out the other
way.
9
 I accept at face value
the majority’s declaration that general jurisdiction is not
limited to a corporation’s place of incorporation and
principal place of business because “a corporation’s
operations in a forum other than its formal place of incorporation
or principal place of business may be so substantial and of such a
nature as to render the corporation at home in the State.” ,
at 20, n. 19; see also , at 19. Were that not so, our analysis of
the defendants’ in-state contacts in v. , , v. , , and would
have been irrelevant, as none of the defendants in those cases was
sued in its place of incorporation or principal place of
business.
10  States will of course continue to
exercise specific jurisdiction in many cases, but we have never
held that to be the outer limit of the States’ authority
under the Due Process Clause. That is because the two forms of
jurisdiction address different concerns. Whereas specific
jurisdiction focuses on the relationship between a
defendant’s challenged conduct and the forum State, general
jurisdiction focuses on the defendant’s substantial presence
in the State irrespective of the location of the challenged
conduct.
11  See
also, ,v. , 739 So. 2d617, 620–621 (Fla. App. 1999)
(estate of decedent killed in an overseas plane crash permitted to
sue responsible Belizean corporate defendant in Florida courts,
rather than Belizean courts, based on defendant’s continuous
and systematic business contacts in Florida).
12  The
present case and the examples posited involve foreign corporate
defendants, but the principle announced by the majority would apply
equally to preclude general jurisdiction over a U. S. company that
is incorporated and has its principal place of business in another
U. S. State. Under the majority’s rule, for example, a
General Motors auto-worker who retires to Florida would be unable
to sue GM in that State for disabilities that develop from the
retiree’s labor at a Michigan parts plant, even though GM
undertakes considerable business operations in Florida. See
Twitchell, The Myth of General Jurisdiction, 101 Harv. L. Rev. 610,
670 (1988).


