::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-024
::decision_cite:: 571 U.S. 429 (2014)
::decision_name::  Lawson v. FMR LLC
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–3

															_________________

															JACKIE HOSANG LAWSON and JONATHAN M. ZANG,
PETITIONERS v. FMR LLC et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the first circuit

															[March 4, 2014]

															

															     Justice Sotomayor,
with whom Justice Kennedy and Justice Alito join, dissenting.

															     Section 806 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 116Stat. 802, forbids any public
company,[1] or any
“officer, em-ployee, contractor, subcontractor, or agent of
such company,” to retaliate against “an employee”
who reports a potential fraud. 18 U. S. C.
§1514A(a). The Court recognizes that the core purpose of the
Act is to “safeguard investors in public companies.”
Ante, at 1. And the Court points out that Congress entitled the
whistleblower provision, “Protection for Employees of
Publicly Traded Companies Who Provide Evidence of Fraud.”
§806, 116Stat. 802. Despite these clear markers of intent, the
Court does not construe §1514A to apply only to public company
employees who blow the whistle on fraud relating to their public
company employers. The Court instead holds that the law encompasses
any household employee of the millions of people who work for a
public company and any employee of the hundreds of thousands of
private businesses that contract

															to perform work for a public company.

															     The Court’s
interpretation gives §1514A a stunning reach. As interpreted
today, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act au-thorizes a babysitter to bring a
federal case against his employer—a parent who happens to
work at the local Walmart (a public company)—if the parent
stops employing the babysitter after he expresses concern that the
parent’s teenage son may have participated in an Internet
purchase fraud. And it opens the door to a cause of action against
a small business that contracts to clean the local Starbucks (a
public company) if an employee is demoted after reporting that
another nonpublic company client has mailed the cleaning company a
fraudulent invoice.

															     Congress was of course
free to create this kind of sweeping regime that subjects a
multitude of individuals and private businesses to litigation over
fraud reports that have no connection to, or impact on, the
interests of pub-lic company shareholders. But because nothing in
the text, context, or purpose of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act suggests
that Congress actually wanted to do so, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															     Although the majority
correctly starts its analysis with the statutory text, it fails to
recognize that §1514A is deeply ambiguous. Three indicators of
Congress’ intent clearly resolve this ambiguity in favor of a
narrower interpretation of §1514A: the statute’s
headings, the statutory context, and the absurd results that follow
from the majority’s interpretation.

															A

															     The majority begins
its textual analysis by declaring that the
“ ‘relevant syntactic elements’ ”
of §1514A are that “ ‘ “no . . .
contractor . . . may discharge . . . an
employee.” ’ ” Ante, at 9. After
“ ‘boiling . . . down’ ” the text
to this formulation, the majority concludes that the
“ordinary meaning of ‘an employee’ ”
is obviously “the contractor’s own employee.”
Ibid.

															     If that were what the
statute said, the majority’s decision would undoubtedly be
correct. But §1514A(a) actu-ally provides that “[n]o
[public] company . . . or any officer, employee, contractor,
subcontractor, or agent of such company . . . may discharge,
demote, suspend, threaten, harass, or in any other manner
discriminate against an employee.” The provision thus does
not speak only (or even primarily) to “contractors.” It
speaks to public companies, and then includes a list of five types
of representatives that companies hire to carry out their business:
“officer[s], employee[s], contractor[s], subcontractor[s],
[and] agent[s].”

															     Read in full, then, the
statute is ambiguous. The majority is correct that it may be read
broadly, to create a cause of action both for employees of public
companies and for employees of the enumerated public company
representatives. But the statute can also be read more narrowly, to
prohibit the public company and the listed
representatives—all of whom act on the company’s
behalf—from retaliating against just the public
company’s employees.

															     The narrower reading of
the text makes particular sense when one considers the other terms
in the list of com-pany representatives. The majority acknowledges
that, as a matter of “gramma[r],” the scope of
protected employees must be consistent with respect to all five
types of com-pany representatives listed in §1514A(a). Ante,
at 15. Yet the Government and petitioners readily concede that
§1514A is meant to bar two of the enumerated
repre-sentatives—“officer[s]” and
“employee[s]”—from retaliating against other
employees of the public company, as opposed to their own
babysitters and housekeepers. See Brief for United States as Amicus
Curiae 16 (§1514A “impose[s] personal liability on
corporate officers and employees who are involved in retaliation
against other employees of their employer”); Brief for
Petitioners 12 (similar). The Department of Labor’s
Administrative Review Board (ARB) agrees. Spinner v. David Landau
& Assoc., LLC, No. 10–111 etc., ALJ No.
2010–SOX–029, p. 8 (May 31, 2012). And if §1514A
prohibits an “officer” or “employee” of a
public company from retaliating against only the public
company’s own employees, then as the majority points out, the
same should be true “grammatically” of contractors,
subcontractors, and agents as well, ante, at 15.[2]

															     The majority responds
by suggesting that the narrower interpretation could have been
clearer if Congress had added the phrase “ ‘of a
public company’ after ‘an
em-ployee.’ ” Ante, at 9–10. Fair enough.
But Congress could more clearly have dictated the majority’s
construction of the statute, too: It could have specified that
public companies and their officers, employees, contractors,
subcontractors, and agents may not retaliate against “their
own employees.” In any case, that Congress could have spoken
with greater specificity in both directions only underscores that
the words Congress actually chose are ambiguous. To resolve this
ambiguity, we must rely on other markers of intent.

															B

															     We have long held
that where the text is ambiguous, a statute’s titles can
offer “a useful aid in resolving [the]

															ambiguity.” FTC v. Mandel Brothers,
Inc., 359 U. S. 385 –389 (1959). Here, two headings
strongly suggest that Congress intended §1514A to apply only
to employees of public companies. First, the title of
§806—the section of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that enacted
§1514A—speaks clearly to the scope of employees
protected by the provision: “Protection for Employees of
Publicly Traded Companies Who Provide Evidence of Fraud.”
116Stat. 802. Second, the heading of §1514A(a) reinforces that
the provision provides “[w]histleblower protection for
employees of publicly traded companies.”

															     The majority suggests
that in covering “employees of publicly traded
companies,” the headings may be imprecise. Ante, at 16.
Section 1514A(a) technically applies to the employees of two types
of companies: those “with a class of securities registered
under section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,” and
those that are “required to file reports under section 15(d)
of the” same Act. Both types of companies are
“public” in that they are publicly owned. See ante, at
7–8. The difference is that shares of the §12 companies
are listed and traded on a national securities exchange;
§15(d) companies, by contrast, exchange their securities
directly with the public. The headings may therefore be inexact in
the sense that the phrase “publicly traded” is commonly
associated with companies whose securities are traded on national
exchanges. Congress, however, had good reason to use the phrase to
refer to §15(d) companies as well: Section 15(d) companies are
traded publicly, too. For instance, as the majority recognizes,
ante, at 20, a mutual fund is one paradigmatic example of a
§15(d) company. And mutual funds, like other §15(d)
companies, are both publicly owned and widely traded; the trades
just take place typically between the fund and its investors
directly.

															     In any case, even if
referring to employees of §12 and §15(d) companies
together as “employees of publicly traded companies”
may be slightly imprecise, the majority’s competing
interpretation of §1514A would stretch the stat-ute’s
headings far past the point of recognition. As the majority
understands the law, Congress used the term “employees of
publicly traded companies” as shorthand not just for (1)
employees of §12 and §15(d) companies, but also for (2)
household employees of any individual who works for a §12 or
§15(d) company; (3) employees of any private company that
contracts with a §12 or §15(d) company; (4) employees of
any private company that, even ifit does not contract with a public
company, subcontracts with a private company that does; and (5)
employees of any agent of a §12 or §15(d) company. If
Congress had wanted to enact such a far-reaching provision, it
would have called it something other than “[w]histleblower
protection for employees of publicly traded companies.”

															     Recognizing that
Congress chose headings that are inconsistent with its
interpretation, the majority notes that the Court has “placed
less weight on captions.” Ante, at 16. But where the captions
favor one interpretation so decisively, their significance should
not be dismissed so quickly. As we have explained, headings are
important “ ‘tools available for the resolution of
a doubt’ about the meaning of a statute.”
Almendarez-Torres v. United States, 523 U. S. 224, 234 (1998) .

															C

															1

															     Statutory context
confirms that Congress intended §1514A to apply only to
employees of public companies. To start, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as
a whole evinces a clear focus on public companies. Congress stated
in the Act’s preamble that its objective was to
“protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability
of corporate disclosures made pursuant to the securities
laws,” 116Stat. 745, disclosures that public companies alone
must file. The Act thus created enhanced disclosure obligations for
public companies, §401; added new conflict of interest rules
for their executives, §402; increased the responsibilities of
their audit committees, §301; and created new rules governing
insider trading by their executives and directors, §306. The
common denominator among all of these provisions is their singular
focus on the activities of public companies.

															     When Congress wanted to
depart from the Act’s public company focus to regulate
private firms and their employees, it spoke clearly. For example,
§307 of the Act ordered the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) to issue rules “setting forth minimum standards of
professional conduct for attorneys appearing and practicing before
the [SEC],” including a rule requiring outside counsel to
report violations of the securities laws to public company officers
and directors. 15 U. S. C. §7245. Similarly, Title I
of the Act created the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(PCAOB) and vested it with the authorityto register, regulate,
investigate, and discipline privately held outside accounting firms
and their employees. §§7211–7215. And Title V
required the SEC to adopt rules governing outside securities
analysts when they make public recommendations regarding
securities. §78o–6.

															     Section 1514A, by
contrast, does not unambiguously cover the employees of private
businesses that contract with public companies or the employees of
individuals who work for public companies. Far from it, for the
reasons noted above. Yet as the rest of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
demonstrates, if Congress had really wanted §1514A to impose
liability upon broad swaths of the private sector, it would have
said so more clearly.

															     Congress’ intent
to adopt the narrower understanding of §1514A is also clear
when the statute is compared to the whistleblower provision that
served as its model. That provision, enacted as part of the Wendell
H. Ford Aviation Investment and Reform Act for the 21st Century, 49
U. S. C. §42121, provides that “[n]o air
carrier or contractor or subcontractor of an air carrier” may
retaliate against an employee who reports a potential airline
safety violation.

															     Section 42121 protects
employees of contractors. But as the majority acknowledges,
“Congress strayed” from §42121 in significant ways
when it wrote §1514A. Ante,at 29. First, §42121
specifically defines the term “con-tractor,” limiting
the term to “a company that performs safetysensitive
functions by contract for an air carrier.” §42121(e).
That is in notable distinction to §1514A, which does not
define the word “contractor” as a particular type of
company, instead placing the term in a list alongside individual
“officer[s]” and “employee[s]” who act on a
company’s behalf. Second, unlike §42121, §1514A
sets off the term “contractor” in a separate clause
that is subsidiary to the primary subject of the
provision—the public company itself. Third, the title of
§42121 is “[p]rotection of employees providing air
safety information,” a title that comfortably encompasses the
employees of contractors. Not so of §1514A’s headings,
as explained above. In short, §42121 shows that Congress had
an easy-to-follow model if it wanted to protect the employees of
contractors, yet chose to depart from that model in several
important ways. We should not presume that choice to be accidental.
See Blue Chip Stamps v. Manor Drug Stores, 421 U. S. 723, 734
(1975) .

															2

															     The majority relies
on statutory context as well, but its examples are unconvincing. It
first argues that the types of conduct prohibited by the
statute—“discharge, demotion, suspension, threats,
harassment, [and] discrimination in the terms and conditions of
employment”—are “commonly actions an employer
takes against its own employees.” Ante, at 10. The problem is
that §1514A does not forbid retaliation by an
“employer”; it forbids retaliation by a “[public]
company . . . or any officer, employee, contractor, subcontractor,
or agent of such company.” For the reasons already discussed,
Congress could have reasonably included the five types of
representatives not in their capacity as employers, but rather as
representatives of the company who are barred from retaliating
against a public company’s employees on the company’s
behalf.

															     The majority next
suggests that contractors are rarely “positioned to take
adverse actions against employees of the public company with whom
they contract.” Ante, at 10. That misconceives the nature of
modern work forces, which increasingly comprise a mix of
contractors and persons laboring under more typical employment
relationships. For example, public companies often hire
“independent contractors,” of whom there are more than
10 million,[3] and contract
workers,[4] of whom there are
more than 11 million.[5] And
they employ outside lawyers, accountants, and auditors as well.
While not every person who works for a public company in these
nonemployee capacities may be positioned to threaten or harass
em-

															ployees of the public company, many are. See,
e.g., Tides v. The Boeing Co., 644 F. 3d 809, 811 (CA9 2011)
(noting that “approximately seventy contract auditors from
[an] accounting firm” possessed “managerial
authority” over the 10 Boeing employees in the
company’s audit division). Congress therefore had as much
reason to shield a public company’s employees from
retaliation by the company’s contractors as it had to bar
retaliation by officers and employees. Otherwise, the statute would
have had a gaping hole—a public company could evade
§1514A simply by hiring a contractor to engage in the very
retaliatory acts that an officer or employee could not.[6]

															     The majority also too
quickly dismisses the prominence of “outplacement”
firms, or consultants that help companies determine whom to fire.
See ante, at 11. Companies spent $3.6 billion on these services in
2009 alone.[7] Congress surely
could have meant to protect public company employees against
retaliation at the hands of such firms, especially in the event
that the public company itself goes bankrupt (as companies engaged
in fraud often do). See, e.g., Kalkunte v. DVI Financial Servs.,
Inc., No. 05–139 etc., ALJ No. 2004–SOX–056 (Feb.
27, 2009) (former employee of bankrupt public company permitted to
bring §1514A action against corporate restructuring firm that
terminated her employment).[8]

															     The majority points
next to the remedies afforded by §1514A(c), which authorizes
“all relief necessary to make the employee whole,” in
addition to “reinstatement,” “back pay,”
and “special damages . . . including litigation costs, expert
witness fees, and reasonable attorney fees.” The majority
posits that Congress could not have intended to bar contractors
from retaliating against public company employees because one of
the remedies (reinstatement) would likely be outside of the
contractor’s power. Ante, at 13. But there is no requirement
that a statute must make every type of remedy available against
every type of defendant. A contractor can compensate a
whistleblower with backpay, costs, and fees, and that is more
than

															enough for the statute’s remedial scheme
to make sense. The majority’s reference to the affirmative
defense for public company “employers” who lack
“knowledge” that an employee has participated in a
proceeding relating to the fraud report, ante, at 12 (citing
§1514(A)(a)(2)), fails for a similar reason. There is no rule
that Congress may only provide an affirmative defense if it is
available to every conceivable defendant.

															D

															1

															     Finally, the
majority’s reading runs afoul of the precept that
“interpretations of a statute which would produce absurd
results are to be avoided if alternative interpretations consistent
with the legislative purpose are avail-able.” Griffin v.
Oceanic Contractors, Inc., 458 U. S. 564, 575 (1982) . The
majority’s interpretation transforms §1514A into a
sweeping source of litigation that Congress could not have
intended. As construed by the majority, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
regulates employment relationships between individuals and their
nannies, housekeepers, and caretakers, subjecting individual
employers to litigation if their employees claim to have been
harassed for providing information regarding any of a host of
offenses. If, for example, a nanny is discharged after expressing a
concern to his employer that the employer’s teenage son may
be participating in some Internet fraud, the nanny can bring a
§1514A suit. The employer may prevail, of course, if the nanny
cannot prove he was fired “because of” the fraud
report. §1514A. But there is little reason to think Congress
intended to sweep such disputes into federal court.

															     Nor is it plausible
that Congress intended the Act to impose costly litigation burdens
on any private business that happens to have an ongoing contract
with a public company. As the majority acknowledges, the purpose of
the Act was to protect public company investors and the financial
markets. Yet the majority might well embroil federal agencies and
courts in the resolution of mundane labor disputes that have
nothing to do with such concerns. For instance, a construction
worker could file a §1514A suit against her employer (that has
a long-term contract with a public company) if the worker is
demoted after reporting that another client has mailed the company
a false invoice.[9]

															     The majority’s
interpretation also produces truly odd distinctions. Under the rule
it announces, a babysitter can bring a §1514A retaliation suit
against his employerif his employer is a checkout clerk for the
local PetSmart (a public company), but not if she is a checkout
clerk for the local Petco (a private company). Likewise, the day
laborer who works for a construction business can avail himself of
§1514A if her company has been hired to help remodel the local
Dick’s Sporting Goods store (a public company), but not if it
is remodeling a nearby Sports Authority (a private company).

															     In light of the
reasonable alternative reading of §1514A, there is no reason
to accept these absurd results. The majority begs to differ,
arguing that “[t]here is scant evidence” that lawsuits
have been brought by the multitude of newly covered employees
“ ‘who have no exposure to investor-related
activities and thus could not possibly

															assist in detecting investor
fraud.’ ” Ante, at 22. Until today, however, no
court has deemed §1514A applicable to household employees of
individuals who work for public companies; even the Department of
Labor’s ARB rejected that view. Spinner, ALJ No.
2010–SOX–029, at 8. And as the District Court noted,
prior to the ARB’s 2012 decision in Spinner, the ARB
“ha[d] yet to provide . . . definitive clarification”
on the question whether §1514A extends to the employees of a
public company’s private contractors. 724 F. Supp. 2d 141,
155 (Mass. 2010). So the fact that individuals and private
businesses have yet to suffer burdensome litigation offers little
assurance that the ma-jority’s capacious reading of
§1514A will produce no un-toward effects.

															     Finally, it must be
noted that §1514A protects the reporting of a variety of
frauds—not only securities fraud, but also mail, wire, and
bank fraud. By interpreting a statute that already protects an
expansive class of conduct also to cover a large class of
employees, today’s opinion threatens to subject private
companies to a costly new front of employment litigation. Congress
almost certainly did not intend the statute to have that reach.

															2

															     The majority argues
that the broader reading of §1514A is necessary because a
small number of the millions of individuals and private companies
affected by its ruling have a special role to play in preventing
public company fraud. If §1514A does not bar retaliation
against employees of contractors, the majority cautions, then law
firms and accounting firms will be free to retaliate against their
employees when those employees report fraud on the part of their
public company clients.

															     It is undisputed that
Congress was aware of the role that outside accountants and lawyers
played in the Enron debacle and the importance of encouraging them
to play an active part in preventing future scandals. But it hardly
follows that Congress must have meant to apply §1514A to every
employee of every public company contractor, subcontractor,
officer, and employee as a result. It is far more likely that
Congress saw the unique ethical duties and professional concerns
implicated by outside lawyers and accountants as reason to vest
regulatory authority in the hands of experts with the power to
sanction wrongdoers.

															     Specifically, rather
than imposing §1514A’s generic approach on outside
accounting firms, Congress established the PCAOB, which regulates
“every detail” of an accounting firm’s practice,
including “supervision of au-dit work,” “internal
inspection procedures,” “professional ethics
rules,” and “ ‘such other requirements as
the Board may prescribe.’ ” Free Enterprise Fund
v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Bd., 561 U. S. ___, ___
(2010) (slip op., at 3–4). Importantly, the PCAOB is
empowered to levy “severe sanctions in its disciplinary
proceedings, up to and including the permanent revocation of a
firm’s registration . . . and money penalties of $15
million.” Id., at ___ (slip op., at 4) (citing 15
U. S. C. §7215(c)(4)). Such sanctions could well
provide a more powerful incentive to prevent an accounting firm
from retaliating against its employees than §1514A.

															     The Sarbanes-Oxley Act
confers similar regulatory authority upon the SEC with respect to
attorneys. The Act requires the SEC to establish rules of
professional conduct for attorneys, §307 (codified at 15
U. S. C. §7245), and confers broad power on the SEC
to punish attorneys for “improper professional
conduct,” which would include, for example, a law firm
partner’s decision to retaliate against an associate who
reports fraud. §602 (codified at 15 U. S. C.
§78d–3). Indeed, the Act grants the SEC the power to
censure culpable attorneys and to deny “permanently” to
any such attorney the “privilege of appearing of practicing
before” the SEC “in any way.” §602.

															     Congress thus evidently
made the judgment that decisions concerning how best to punish law
firms and accounting firms ought to be handled not by the
Department of Labor, but by the SEC and the PCAOB. Such judgment
should not be disturbed under usual circumstances, much less at the
cost to congressional intent produced by today’s ruling. The
majority does offer cogent policy arguments for why Congress might
have been wiser to include certain types of contractors within
§1514A, noting for example that a law firm or accounting firm
might be able to retaliate against its employees for making reports
required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Ante, at 19. But as the
majority recognizes, Congress has since remedied that precise
concern, enacting a comprehensive whistleblower incentive and
protection program that unequivocally “prohibit[s] any
employer”—public or private—“from
re-taliating against ‘a whistleblower’ for providing
information to the SEC, participating in an SEC proceeding, or
making disclosures required or protected under Sarbanes-Oxley and
certain other securities laws.” Ante, at 26 (citing 15 U. S.
C. §§78u–6(a)(6), (b)(1), (h)). The majority thus
acknowledges that, moving forward, retaliation claims like the
petitioners’ may “procee[d] under [§78u-6],”
ante, at 26, n. 17. In other words, to the extent the
major-ity worries about a “hole” in FMR’s
interpretation, ante,at 14, Congress has already addressed
it.[10]

															II

															     Because the statute
is ambiguous, and because the majority’s broad interpretation
has also been adopted by the ARB, there remains the question
whether the ARB’s decision in Spinner, ALJ No.
2010–SOX–029, is entitled to deference under Chevron
U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.,
467 U. S. 837 (1984) .[11] Under United States v. Mead Corp., 533 U. S. 218
–227 (2001), an agency may claim Chevron deference
“when it appears [1] that Congress delegated authority to the
agency generally to make rules carrying the force of law, and [2]
that the agency interpretation claiming deference was promulgated
in the exercise of that authority.” Neither requirement is
met here.

															     First, the agency
interpretation for which petitioners claim deference is the
position announced by the ARB, the board to which the Secretary of
Labor has delegated authority “in review or on appeal”
in connection with §1514A proceedings. 75 Fed. Reg. 3924
(2010). According to petitioners, the ARB’s rulings are
entitled to deference because the “Secretary is responsible
for enforcing Section 1514A both through investigation and through
formal adjudication.” Brief for Petitioners 61. That is right
as far as it goes, but even if the Secretary has the power to
investigate and adjudicate §1514A claims, Congress did not
delegate authority to the Secretary to “make rules carrying
the force of law,” Mead, 533 U. S., at 226–227.
Congress instead delegated that power to the SEC: Section 3(a) of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, codified at 15 U. S. C.
§7202(a), provides that the SEC “shall promulgate such
rules and regulations, as may be necessary or appropriate in the
public interest or for the protection of investors, and in
furtherance of this Act.” So if any agency has the authority
to resolve ambiguities in §1514A with the forceof law, it is
the SEC, not the Department of Labor.See Martin v. Occupational
Safety and Health Review Comm’n, 499 U. S. 144, 154
(1991) . The SEC, however, has not issued a regulation applying
§1514A whistleblower protection to employees of public company
contractors. And while the majority notes that the SEC may share
the (incorrect) view that the Department of Labor has interpretive
authority regarding §1514A, ante, at 9, n. 6, the
majority cites nothing to suggest that one agency may transfer
authority unambiguously delegated to it by Congress to a different
agency simply by signing onto an amicus brief.

															     That Congress did not
intend for the Secretary to resolve ambiguities in the law is
confirmed by §1514A’s mechanism for judicial review. The
statute does not merely permit courts to review the
Secretary’s final adjudicatory rulings under the
Administrative Procedure Act’s defer-ential standard. It
instead allows a claimant to bring an action in a federal district
court, and allows district courts to adjudicate such actions
de novo, in any case where the Secretary has not issued a
final decision within 180 days. That is a conspicuously short
amount of time in light of the three-tiered process of agency
review of §1514A claims. See ante, at 5–6. As a result,
even if Congress had not delegated to the SEC the authority to
resolve ambiguities in §1514A, the muscular scheme of judicial
review suggests that Congress would have wanted federal courts, and
not the Secretary of Labor, to have that power. See Mead, 533
U. S., at 232 (declining to defer to Customs Service
classifications where, among other things, the statute authorized
“independent review of Customs classifications by the [Court
of International Trade]”).

															     As to the second Mead
requirement, even if Congress had delegated authority to the
Secretary to make “rules carrying the force of law,”
the “agency interpretation claiming deference” in this
case was not “promulgated in the exercise of that
authority.” Id., at 226–227. That is because the
Secretary has explicitly vested any policymaking authority he may
have with respect to §1514A in the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA) instead of the ARB. See 67 Fed. Reg.
65008 (2002). In fact, the Secretary has expressly withdrawn from
the ARB any power to deviate from the rules OSHA issues on the
Department of Labor’s behalf. 75 Fed. Reg. 3925 (“The
[ARB] shall not have jurisdiction to pass on the validity of any
portion of the Code of Federal Regulations that has been duly
promulgated by the Department of Labor and shall observe the
provisions thereof, where pertinent, in its decisions”).

															     OSHA has promulgated
regulations supporting the majority’s reading of §1514A.
See 29 CFR §1980.101(f)–(g) (2013). The Secretary,
however, has expressly disclaimed any claim of deference to them.
See Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 33, n. 8. As a
result, the ARB’s understanding of §1514A’s
coverage in Spinner was not an “exercise of [the
Secretary’s] authority” to make rules carrying the
force of law, Mead, 533 U. S., at 226–227, but rather
the ARB’s necessary compliance with a regulation that no one
claims is deserving of deference in the first place. See Spinner,
ALJ No. 2010–SOX–029, at 10 (recognizing that
“the ARB is bound by the [Department of Labor]
regulations”).

															     In the absence of
Chevron deference, the ARB’s decision in Spinner may claim
only “respect according to its persuasiveness” under
Skidmore v. Swift & Co., 323 U. S.134 (1944). See Mead,
533 U. S., at 221. But the ARB’s decision is
unpersuasive, for the many reasons already discussed.

															*  *  *

															     The Court’s
interpretation of §1514A undeniably serves a laudatory
purpose. By covering employees of every of-ficer, employee, and
contractor of every public company, the majority’s
interpretation extends §1514A’s protections to the
outside lawyers and accountants who could have helped prevent the
Enron fraud.

															     But that is not the
statute Congress wrote. Congress envisioned a system in which
public company employees would be covered by §1514A, and in
which outside lawyers, investment advisers, and accountants would
be regulated by the SEC and PCAOB. Congress did not envision a
system in which employees of other private businesses—such as
cleaning and construction company workers who have little
interaction with investor-related activities and who are thus ill
suited to assist in detecting fraud against
shareholders—would fall within §1514A. Nor, needless to
say, did it envision §1514A applying to the household
employees of millions of individuals who happen to work for public
companies—housekeepers, gardeners, and babysitters who are
also poorly positioned to prevent fraud against public company
investors. And to the extent §1514A may have been
underinclusive as first drafted, Congress has shown itself capable
of filling in any gaps. See, e.g., Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act, §§922, 929A, 124Stat. 1848,
1852 (extending §1514A to credit rating agencies and public
company subsidiaries); §922, id., at 1841–1848
(codifying additional whistleblower incentive and protection
program at 15 U. S. C. §78u–6).

															     The Court’s
decision upsets the balance struck by Congress. Fortunately, just
as Congress has added further protections to the system it
originally designed when necessary, so too may Congress now respond
to limit the far-reaching implications of the Court’s
interpretation.[12] But
because that interpretation relies on a debatable view of
§1514A’s text, is inconsistent with the statute’s
titles and its context, and leads to absurd results that Congress
did not intend, I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 The majority uses the
term “public company” as shorthand for ’s
reference to companies that either have “ ‘a class
of securities registered under section 12 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934,’ ” or that are
“ ‘required to file reports under section
15(d).’ ” at 7–8. I do the
same.
2
 In reaching the opposite
conclusion, the majority rejects the concessions by the Government
and petitioners and gives no weight to the ARB’s
interpretation. If §1514A creates a cause of action for
contractor employees, the majority concludes, so too must it create
a cause of action for “housekeepers” and
“gardeners” against their individual employers if they
happen to work for a public company. , at 15. In reaching this
result, however, the majority only adds to the absurdities produced
by its holding. See , at 12–13.
3
 Dept. of Labor, Bureau of
Labor Statistics, News, Contingent and Alternative Employment
Arrangements, Feb. 2005, (July 27, 2005), online at
http://www.bls.gov/news.release/‌conemp.nr0.htm (all Internet
materials as visited on Feb. 28, 2014, and available in Clerk of
Court’s case file).
4
 The Bureau of Labor
Statistics distinguishes contract workers from independent
contractors, defining the former as “[w]orkers who are
employed by a company that provides them or their services to
others under contract and who . . . usually work at the
customer’s worksite.” at 2 (Table A).
5
 Penn, Staffing Firms
Added Nearly 1 Million Jobs Over Four Years Since Recession, ASA
Says, Bloomberg Law (Oct. 8, 2012), online at
http://about.bloomberglaw.com/law-reports/staffing-firms-added-nearly-1-million-jobs-over-four-years-since-recession-asa-says/.
6
 The majority submits that
the hole might not be so problematic because §1514A
“surely” prohibits a “public company from
directing someone else to engage in retaliatory conduct against the
public company’s employees.” at 13. It surely does, but
that is the point—the whole reason §1514A(a) clearly
does so is because it expressly forbids a public company to
retaliate against its employees through “any officer,
employee, contractor, subcontractor, or agent.” The
prohibition on retaliation through a contractor would be far less
certain (hence the hole) if Congress had merely forbidden a public
company to retaliate through its “officers and
employees.” Moreover, while the majority concedes that, under
the narrower reading of §1514A, Congress’ inclusion of
the term “contractor” imposes secondary liability in
the event a public company is judgment proof, at 13, the majority
fails to recognize that Congress’ use of the term also
imposes primary liability against contractors who threaten public
company employees without direction from the company. Thus, for
example, FMR’s interpretation of §1514A would prevent an
outside accountant from threatening or harassing a public company
employee who discovers that the accountant is defrauding the public
company and who seeks to blow the whistle on that
fraud.
7
 Rogers, Do Firing
Consultants Really Exist, Slate, Jan. 7, 2010,
www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/explainer/2010/01/getting_the_ax_from_george_clooney.html.
8
 The majority suggests
that an outplacement firm would likely be acting as an
“agent” for the public company, such that
Congress’ additional inclusion of the word
“contractor” would be superfluous under the narrower
reading of §1514A. at 11, n. 9. The two words are not
legally synonymous, however. An outplacement firm and public
company might, for example, enter into a contract with a provision
expressly disclaiming an agency relationship. Moreover,
Congress’ use of the term “contractor” would in
all events have an independent and important effect: If Congress
had not included the term, no onecould be held liable if a
contractor were to threaten or harass a public company employee
without the company’s direction. While the major-ity may
speculate that such occurrences are rare, , it is hardly
unthinkable. See n. 6, .
9
 Recognizing that the
majority’s reading would lead to a “notably expansive
scope untethered to the purpose of the statute,” the District
Court in this case sought to impose an extratextual limiting
principle under which an employee who reports fraud is entitled to
protection only if her report “relat[es] to fraud against
shareholders.” 724 F. Supp. 2d 141, 160 (Mass. 2010).
The District Court acknowledged, however, that “the language
of the statute itself does not plainly provide such a limiting
principle,” at 158, and the majority does not attempt to
revive that limitation here.
10  The
majority also contends that its reading is necessary to avoid
“insulating the entire mutual fund industry from
§1514A.” at 20. But that argument is misguided for a
reason similar to the majority’s concern about lawyers and
accountants. As this Court has observed, Congress responded to the
“ ‘potential for abuse inherent in the structure
of investment companies,’ ” v. , , by enacting the
Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Investment Advisers Act of
1940. –1 ; §80b–1 . The Advisers Act in particular
grants the SEC broad regulatory authority to regulate mutual fund
investment advisers.
11  Although it claims not to reach the
issue, , at 9, n. 6, the majority implicitly declines to defer
to a portion of the ARB’s ruling as well, rejecting the
ARB’s ruling that §1514A does not apply to the household
employees of public company officers and employees, at 15, and
n. 11.
12  Congress could, for example, limit
§1514A to contractor employees in only those professions that
can assist in detecting fraud on public company shareholders, or it
could restrict the fraud reports that trigger whistleblower
protection to those that implicate the interests of public company
investors, seen. 9, .


