::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-019
::decision_cite:: 571 U.S. 320 (2014)
::decision_name::  Kaley v. United States
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–464

															_________________

															KERRI L. KALEY, et vir, PETITIONERS v.
UNITEDSTATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the eleventh circuit

															[February 25, 2014]

															

															     Chief Justice
Roberts, with whom Justice Breyer and Justice Sotomayor join,
dissenting.

															     An individual facing
serious criminal charges brought by the United States has little
but the Constitution and his attorney standing between him and
prison. He might readily give all he owns to defend himself.

															     We have held, however,
that the Government may effectively remove a defendant’s
primary weapon of defense—the attorney he selects and
trusts—by freezing assets he needs to pay his lawyer. That
ruling is not at issue. But today the Court goes further, holding
that a defendant may be hobbled in this way without an opportunity
to challenge the Government’s decision to freeze those needed
assets. I cannot subscribe to that holding and respectfully
dissent.

															I

															     The facts of this
case are important. They highlight the significance to a defendant
of being able to hire his counsel of choice, and the potential for
unfairness inherent in giving the prosecutor the discretion to take
that right away. Kerri Kaley worked as a sales representative for a
Johnson & Johnson subsidiary, selling prescription medical
devices. Kaley and other sales representatives occasionally
obtained outmoded or surplus devices from staff members at the
medical facilities they served, when, for example, those devices
were no longer needed because they had been superseded by newer
models. Kaley sold the unwanted devices to a Florida company,
dividing the proceeds among the sales representatives.

															     Kaley learned in
January 2005 that a federal grand jury was investigating those
activities as a conspiracy to sell stolen prescription medical
devices. Kaley and her husband (who allegedly helped ship the
products to Florida) retained counsel, who immediately set to work
preparing their defense against any impending charges. Counsel
regularly discussed the investigation with the Kaleys, helped
review documents demanded by the grand jury, and met with
prosecutors in an attempt to ward off an indictment. Nonetheless
preparing for the worst, the Kaleys applied for a $500,000 equity
line of credit on their home to pay estimated legal fees associated
with a trial. They used that money to purchase a $500,000
certificate of deposit, which they set aside until it would be
needed to pay their attorneys for the trial.

															     In February 2007, the
grand jury returned a seven-count indictment charging the Kaleys
and another sales representative, Jennifer Gruenstrass, with
violations of federal law. The indictment alleged that a
“money judgment” of over $2 million and the $500,000
certificate of deposit were subject to forfeiture under 18
U. S. C. §981(a)(1)(C) because those assets
constituted “proceeds” of the alleged crimes. Armed
with this indictment, the prosecution obtained an ex parte
order pursuant to 21 U. S. C. §853(e), thereby
freezing all of the Kaleys’ assets listed in the indictment,
including the certificate of deposit set aside for legal fees. The
Government did not seek to freeze any of Gruenstrass’s
assets.

															     The Kaleys moved to
vacate the order, requesting a hearing at which they could argue
that there was no probable cause to believe their assets were
forfeitable, because their alleged conduct was not criminal. They
argued they were entitled to such a hearing because the restraining
order targeted funds they needed and had set aside to retain for
trial the same counsel who had been preparing their defense for two
years. And they contended that the prosecution was baseless because
the Government could not identify anyone who claimed ownership of
the medical devices alleged to have been “stolen.”
During a telephone conference with a Magistrate Judge on the
motion, the prosecution conceded that it had been able to trace
only $140,000 in allegedly criminal proceeds to the Kaleys, which
led the Magistrate Judge to question the lawfulness of restraining
the listed assets.

															     Just two business days
after that conference, the Government obtained a superseding
indictment that added a count of conspiracy to commit money
laundering under 18 U. S. C. §1956(h). Adding that
charge enabled the Government to proceed under a much broader
forfeiture provision than the one in the original indictment. While
the civil forfeiture provision in §981(a)(1)(C) authorized
forfeit- ure of property that “constitutes or is derived from
proceeds traceable to” a qualifying criminal violation, the
criminal forfeiture provision now invoked by the
Government—§982(a)(1)—authorizes forfeiture of
property “involved in” a qualifying offense, or
“any property traceable to such property.” The
superseding indictment alleged that a sum of more than $2 million,
the certificate of deposit reserved to pay legal expenses, and now
the Kaleys’ home were subject to forfeiture. And again, the
Government sought an order freezing substantially all those
assets.

															     The Kaleys objected,
repeating the arguments they had previously raised, and also
contending that the prosecutors were being vindictive in adding the
money laundering charge and seeking broader forfeiture. The
District Court nonetheless entered the broader order requested by
the Government, and the restraint on the Kaleys’ assets
remains in place.

															     While the Kaleys’
appeal from that denial was pending, the Government proceeded to
trial separately against their codefendant Gruenstrass. As the
Government had not sought to freeze Gruenstrass’s assets, she
was represented by her chosen counsel. Her counsel argued that the
Government was pitching a fraud without a victim, because no
Government witness took the stand to claim ownership of the
allegedly stolen devices. The jury acquitted Gruenstrass on all
charges in less than three hours—a good omen for the Kaleys
and their counsel as they prepared for their own trial.

															II

															     The issues at stake
here implicate fundamental constitutional principles. The Sixth
Amendment provides that “[i]n all criminal prosecutions, the
accused shall enjoy the right . . . to have the
Assistance of Counsel for his defence.” In many ways, this is
the most precious right a defendant has, because it is his attorney
who will fight for the other rights the defendant enjoys. United
States v. Cronic, 466 U. S. 648 –654 (1984). And more
than 80 years ago, we found it “hardly necessary to say that,
the right to counsel being conceded, a defendant should be afforded
a fair opportunity to secure counsel of his own choice.”
Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45, 53 (1932) .

															     Indeed, we recently
called the “right to select counsel of one’s choice . .
. . the root meaning of the constitutional guarantee” of the
Sixth Amendment. United States v. Gonzalez-Lopez, 548 U. S.
140 –148 (2006). The Amendment requires “that a
particular guarantee of fair-ness be provided—to wit, that
the accused be defended by the counsel he believes to be
best.” Id., at 146. An individual’s right to counsel of
choice is violated “whenever the defendant’s choice is
wrongfully denied,” and such error “pervades the entire
trial.” Id., at 150. A violation of this right is therefore a
“structural error,” ibid.; that is, one of the very few
kinds of errors that “undermine the fairness of a criminal
proceeding as a whole.” United States v. Davila, 569
U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 12).

															     It is of course true
that the right to counsel of choice is (like most rights) not
absolute. A defendant has no right to choose counsel he cannot
afford, counsel who is not a member of the bar, or counsel with an
impermissible conflict of interest. Wheat v. United States, 486
U. S. 153, 159 (1988) . And a district court need not always
shuffle its calendar to accommodate a defendant’s preferred
counsel if it has legitimate reasons not to do so. Morris v.
Slappy, 461 U. S. 1 –12 (1983). But none of those
limitations is imposed at the unreviewable discretion of a
prosecutor—the party who wants the defendant to lose at
trial.

															     This Court has held
that the prosecution may freeze assets a defendant needs to retain
his counsel of choice upon “a finding of probable cause to
believe that the assets are forfeitable.” United States v.
Monsanto, 491 U. S. 600, 615 (1989) . The Kaleys do not
challenge that holding here. But the Court in Monsanto acknowledged
and reserved the crucial question whether a defendant had the right
to be heard before the Government could take such action. Id., at
615, n. 10.[1]

															     There was good reason
for that caution. The possibility that a prosecutor could elect to
hamstring his target by preventing him from paying his counsel of
choice raises substantial concerns about the fairness of the entire
proceeding. “A fair trial in a fair tribunal is a basic
requirement of due process.” In re Murchison, 349 U. S.
133, 136 (1955) . Issues concerning the denial of counsel of choice
implicate the overall fairness of the trial because they
“bear[ ] directly on the ‘framework within which
the trial proceeds.’ ” Gonzalez-Lopez, supra, at
150 (quoting Arizona v. Fulminante, 499 U. S. 279, 310 (1991)
).

															III

															     Notwithstanding the
substantial constitutional issues at stake, the majority believes
that syllogistic-type reasoning effectively resolves this case.
Ante, at 12. The majority’s reasoning goes like this: First,
to freeze assets prior to trial, the Government must show probable
cause to believe that a defendant has committed an offense giving
rise to forfeiture. Second, grand jury determinations of probable
cause are nonreviewable. Therefore, the Kaleys cannot
“relitigate [the] grand jury finding” of probable cause
to avoid a pretrial restraint of assets they need to retain their
counsel of choice. Ibid. I do not view the matter as nearly so
“straightforward,” and neither did the multiple Courts
of Appeals since Monsanto that have granted defendants the type of
hearing the Kaleys request. See ante, at 3, n. 4.

															     To begin with, the
majority’s conclusion is wrong on its own terms. To freeze
assets prior to trial, the Government must show probable cause to
believe both that (1) a defendant has committed an offense giving
rise to forfeiture and (2) the targeted assets have the requisite
connection to the alleged criminal conduct. 21 U. S. C.
§853(e)(1)(A). The Solicitor General concedes—and all
Courts of Appeals to have considered the issue have held—that
“defendants are entitled to show that the assets that are
restrained are not actually the proceeds of the charged criminal
offense,” Tr. of Oral Arg. 45; that is, that the second prong
of the required showing is not satisfied. But by listing prop-erty
in the indictment and alleging that it is subject to
forfeiture—as required to restrain assets before trial under
§853(e)(1)(A)—the grand jury found probable cause to
believe those assets were linked to the charged offenses, just as
it found probable cause to believe the Kaleys committed the
underlying crimes. App. 60–61 (separate indictment section
alleging criminal forfeiture, including of the certificate of
deposit); see United States v. Jones, 160 F. 3d 641, 645 (CA10
1998); United States v. Monsanto, 924 F. 2d 1186, 1197 (CA2
1991) (en banc); Dept. of Justice, Asset Forfeiture Policy Manual
128 (2013) (“That the indictment alleges that property is
subject to forfeiture indicates that the grand jury has made a
probable cause determination.”). Neither the Government nor
the major-ity gives any reason why the District Court may
reconsider the grand jury’s probable cause finding as to
traceability—and in fact constitutionally must, if
asked—but may not do so as to the underlying charged
offenses.[2]

															     In any event, the
hearing the Kaleys seek would not be mere relitigation of the grand
jury proceedings. At that hearing, the District Court would
consider the merits of the prosecution to determine whether there
is probable cause to believe the Kaleys’ assets are
forfeitable, not to determine whether the Kaleys may be tried at
all. If the judge agrees with the Kaleys, he will merely hold that
the Government has not met its burden at that hearing to justify
freezing the assets the Kaleys need to pay their attorneys. The
Government may proceed with the prosecution, but the Kaleys will
have their chosen counsel at their side.

															     Even though the
probable cause standard applies at both the indictment stage and
the pretrial asset restraint hearing, the judge’s
determination will be based on different evidence than that
previously presented to the grand jury. For its part, the
Government may choose to put on more or less evidence at the
hearing than it did before the grand jury. And of course the Kaleys
would have the opportunity to tell their side of the
story—something the grand jury never hears. See United States
v. Williams, 504 U. S. 36 –52 (1992). Here, much of what
the Kaleys want to present comes from Gruenstrass’s
trial—evidence that the grand jury obviously could not have
considered. So even if the judge determined that probable cause to
justify the pretrial asset restraint had not been adequately
established, that determination would not in any way amount to
“looking into and revising the judgment of the grand jury
upon the evidence, for the purpose of determining whether or not
the finding was founded upon sufficient proof.” Ante, at 7
(quoting Costello v. United States, 350 U. S. 359 –363
(1956) (internal quotation marks omitted)). The judge’s
decision based on the evidence presented at the hearing would have
no necessary legal or logical consequence for the underlying
prosecution because it would be based on different evidence and
used for a different purpose.

															     The majority warns that
allowing a judge to consider the underlying merits of the
prosecution for purposes of determining whether a defendant’s
assets may be restrained pretrial could create “legal
dissonance” with the grand jury’s indictment, which
“could not but undermine the criminal justice system’s
integrity.” Ante, at 10–11. But as explained, such a
judicial finding based on different evidence with both sides
present would not contradict the grand jury’s probable cause
finding based on what was before it. That finding would still
suffice to accomplish its purpose—to call for a trial on the
merits of the charges. Rather than creating
“dissonance,” the traditional roles of the principal
actors in our justice system would remain respected: The grand jury
decides whether a defendant should be required to stand trial, the
judge decides pre-trial matters and how the trial should proceed,
and the jury decides whether the defendant is guilty of the
crime.

															     Indeed, in the bail
context—the pretrial determination that is perhaps the
closest analogue to the pretrial restraint of assets at issue
here—we allow judicial inquiries into the underlying merits
of the indicted charges, without concern about intruding into the
province of the grand jury. An indictment charging sufficiently
serious crimes gives rise to a rebuttable presumption that a
defend-ant is not eligible for pretrial release. See 18
U. S. C. §§3142(e)(3) and (f). Such a defendant
is nonetheless entitled to an evidentiary hearing at which he may
contest (among other things) “the weight of the evidence
against” him, §3142(g)(2). Yet no one would say that the
district court encroached on the grand jury’s role if the
court de-termined that it would not authorize pretrial detention
because of the weakness of the prosecution’s case. See, e.g.,
United States v. Hurtado, 779 F. 2d 1467, 1479–1480 (CA11
1985) (recognizing that in considering the “weight of the
evidence” to decide whether the presumption is rebutted,
“it may well be necessary to open up the issue of probable
cause since that too is a question of evidentiary weight”).
That makes sense, because the district court has considered the
underlying merits of the charges based on different information and
for a different purpose than the grand jury did. Such a defendant
would be granted pretrial release, but would still have to show up
for trial.[3]

															     In any event, few
things could do more to “undermine the criminal justice
system’s integrity,” ante, at 11, than to allow the
Government to initiate a prosecution and then, at its option,
disarm its presumptively innocent opponent by depriving him of his
counsel of choice—without even an opportunity to be heard.
That is the result of the Court’s decision in this case, and
it is fundamentally at odds with our constitutional tradition and
basic notions of fair play.

															IV

															     The majority is no
more persuasive in applying the due process balancing test set
forth in Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U. S. 319 (1976) .[4] As an initial matter, the majority
gives short shrift to the Kaleys’ interests at stake.
“The presumption of innocence, although not articulated in
the Constitution, is a basic component of a fair trial under our
system of criminal justice.” Estelle v. Williams, 425
U. S. 501, 503 (1976) . Whatever serious crimes the grand jury
alleges the Kaleys committed, they are presumptively innocent of
those charges until final judgment. Their right to vindicate that
presumption by choosing the advocate they believe will best defend
them is, as explained, at the very core of the Sixth Amendment.

															     I suspect that, for the
Kaleys, that right could hardly be more precious than it is now. In
addition to potentially losing the property the Government has
already frozen—including their home—the Kaleys face
maximum prison terms of five years ( 18 U. S. C.
§371), ten years (§2314), and 20 years (§1956(h))
for the charges in the superseding indictment. The indictment means
they must stand trial on those charges. But the Kaleys plainly have
an urgent interest in having their chosen counsel—who has
worked with them since the grand jury’s investigation began,
two years before the indictment—mount their best possible
defense at trial.

															     The majority alludes to
our cases recognizing that indictments may result in the temporary
deprivation of a defendant’s liberty without judicial review,
and suggests that indictments therefore must also be “good
enough” to deprive a defendant of property without judicial
review. Ante, at 9–10. Even if this
greater-includes-the-lesser reasoning might be valid in other
contexts, it is not when the property at issue is needed to hire
chosen counsel. In the context of a prosecution for serious crimes,
it is far from clear which interest is greater—the interest
in temporary liberty pending trial, or the interest in using
one’s available means to avoid imprisonment for many years
after trial. Retaining one’s counsel of choice ensures the
fundamental fairness of the actual trial, and thus may be far more
valuable to a criminal defendant than pretrial release.

															     As for the
Government’s side, the Court echoes the Government’s
concerns that a hearing would place demands on its resources and
interfere with its desire to keep its trial strategy close to the
vest. These concerns are somewhat curious in light of the
majority’s emphasis on how easy it is to make a probable
cause showing. And they are even more surprising in light of the
extensive discovery obligations already imposed on the Government
by Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 16 and Brady v. Maryland, 373
U. S. 83 (1963) . The emphasis the Government places on
pretrial secrecy evokes an outdated conception of the criminal
trial as “a poker game in which players enjoy an absolute
right always to conceal their cards until played.” Williams
v. Florida, 399 U. S. 78, 82 (1970) .

															     Moreover, recall that
the Government concedes that due process guarantees defendants a
hearing to contest the traceability of the restrained assets to the
charged conduct. If a defendant requests such a hearing, the
Government will likely be required to reveal something about its
case to demonstrate that the assets have the requisite connection
to the charged offenses.

															     In any event, these
concerns are exaggerated. What the Government would be required to
show in a pretrial restraint hearing is similar to pretrial
showings prosecutors make in other contexts on a daily basis. As
mentioned above, when the Government seeks an order detaining a
defendant pending trial, it routinely makes an extensive
evidentiary showing—voluntarily disclosing much of its
evidence and trial strategy—in support of that relief. See
Brief for California Attorneys for Criminal Justice as Amicus
Curiae 11–18. The Government makes similar showings in the
context of other pretrial motions, such as motions to admit hearsay
evidence under the co-conspirator exception, or to discover
attorney-client communications made in furtherance of a future
crime. Id., at 19–28.

															     In those contexts, as
in this one, the decision how much to “show its hand”
rests fully within the Government’s discretion. If it has a
strong case and believes that pretrial restraint is necessary to
preserve the assets for forfeit-ure, the Government may choose to
make a strong evi-dentiary showing and have little concern about
doing so. In a closer case, where the Government is more concerned
about tipping its hand, it may elect to forgo a pretrial restraint
of those assets the defendant needs to pay his counsel. I see no
great burden on the Government in allowing it to strike this
balance as it sees fit when considering a pretrial asset restraint
that would deprive a defendant of his right to counsel of choice.
In the end, it is a bit much to argue that the Government has
discretion to deprive a defendant—without a hearing—of
the counsel he has chosen to present his defense, simply to avoid
the mere possibility of a premature peek at some aspect of what the
Government intends to do at trial.

															     The majority also
significantly underestimates the amount of control judges can
exercise in these types of hearings. The Circuits that allow such
hearings have afforded judges a great deal of flexibility in
structuring them. Judges need not apply the Federal Rules of
Evidence during the hearings, and they can take many steps,
including in camera proceedings, to ensure that witness safety and
grand jury secrecy are fully preserved. See Monsanto, 924
F. 2d, at 1198; United States v. E-Gold, Ltd., 521 F. 3d
411, 418–419 (CADC 2008).

															     Moreover, experience in
the Second Circuit, where defendants have for more than 20 years
been afforded the type of hearing the Kaleys seek, indicates that
such hearings do not occur so often as to raise substantial
concerns about taxing the resources of the Government and lower
courts. See Brief for New York Council of Defense Lawyers as Amicus
Curiae 4–9. As the majority notes, only 25 reported cases
appear to have addressed such hearings. Id., at 4. This relative
rarity is unsurprising. To even be entitled to the hearing,
defendants must first show a genuine need to use the assets to
retain counsel of choice. See United States v. Bonventre, 720
F. 3d 126, 131 (CA2 2013). And defendants too have an
incentive not to tip their hands as to trial strategy—perhaps
to an even greater extent than the Government, given that
defendants bear comparatively few discovery obligations at a
criminal trial. In light of the low bar of the probable cause
standard, many defendants likely conclude that the possible
benefits of the hearing are not worth the candle.

															     For those hearings that
do occur, they are by all appearances ably controlled by district
judges to keep them manageable and to limit the potential for
excess or abuse. See Brief for New York Council of Defense Lawyers
as Amicus Curiae 6–8. In addition, where such hearings are
allowed, prosecutors and defense counsel often reach agreements
concerning the scope and conditions of any protective order that
accommodate the interests of both sides. See id., at 8–9.
When the right at stake is as fundamental as hiring one’s
counsel of choice—the “root meaning” of the Sixth
Amendment, Gonzalez-Lopez, 548 U. S., at
147–148—the Government’s interest in saving the
time and expense of a limited number of such proceedings is not
particularly compelling.

															     The Government does
have legitimate interests that are served by forfeiture of
allegedly tainted assets. Caplin & Drysdale, Chartered v.
United States, 491 U. S. 617, 629 (1989) . And imposing a
pretrial restraint on such assets does increase the likelihood that
they will be available if the defendant is convicted.[5] But that interest is protected in other
ways that mitigate the concern that defendants will successfully
divert forfeitable assets from the Government’s reach if
afforded a hearing. The relation-back provision in 21
U. S. C. §853(c) provides that title to forfeitable
assets, once adjudged forfeitable, vests in the Government as of
the time the offense was committed. Section 853(c) then provides
that the Government may seek a “special verdict of
forfeiture” as to any forfeited property that was
subsequently transferred to a third party. The Government protests
that recovery of such assets will often be complicated and subject
to the vagaries of state law. Tr. of Oral Arg. 49–50. But
such complaints of administrative inconvenience carry little weight
in this particular context, when the Government knows exactly where
the money has gone: to an attorney who is, after all, an officer of
the court, and on notice that the Government claims title to the
assets.

															     And we are not talking
about all of a defendant’s assets that are subject to
forfeiture—only those that the defendant can show are
necessary to secure his counsel of choice. Here, for example, the
Kaleys have identified as needed to pay counsel only a discrete
portion of the assets the Government seeks. The statistics cited by
the Court on the total amount of assets recovered by the Government
and provided as restitution for victims, ante, at 2, n. 1, are
completely beside the point.

															     The majority ultimately
concludes that a pretrial hearing of the sort the Kaleys seek would
be a waste of time. Ante, at 17–20. No. It takes little
imagination to see that seizures based entirely on ex parte
proceedings create a heightened risk of error. Common sense tells
us that secret decisions based on only one side of the story will
prove inaccurate more often than those made after hearing from both
sides. We have thus consistently recognized that the
“fundamental instrument for judicial judgment” is
“an adversary proceeding in which both parties may
participate.” Carroll v. President and Comm’rs of
Princess Anne, 393 U. S. 175, 183 (1968) . In the present context,
some defendants (like the Kaleys) may be able to show that the
theory of prosecution is legally defective through an argument that
almost certainly was not presented to the grand jury. And as
discussed above, supra, at 13–15, prosecutors in some cases
elect not to freeze needed assets, or they negotiate tailored
protective orders to serve the interests of both
sides—something they would be unlikely to do if the hearings
were rote exercises.

															     Given the risk of an
erroneous restraint of assets needed to retain chosen counsel, the
“probable value” of the “additional
safeguard” a pretrial hearing would provide is significant.
That is because the right to counsel of choice is inherently
transient, and the deprivation of that right effectively permanent.
In our cases suggesting that little would be gained by requiring an
adversary hearing on probable cause or imposing stricter
evidentiary requirements in grand jury proceedings, we have noted
that the grand jury is not where the ultimate question of
“the guilt or innocence of the accused is adjudicated.”
United States v. Calandra, 414 U. S. 338, 343 (1974) ; see
United States v. Williams, 504 U. S. 36, 51 (1992) (explaining
that the grand jury hears only from the prosecutor because
“ ‘the finding of an indictment is only in the
nature of an enquiry or accusation, which is afterwards to be tried
and determined’ ” (quoting 4 W. Blackstone,
Commentaries 300 (1769)). If the grand jury considers incomplete or
incompetent evidence in deciding to return an indictment, the
defendant still has the full trial on the merits, with all its
“formalities and safeguards,” Gerstein v. Pugh, 420
U. S. 103, 122 (1975) , to prove his innocence.

															     Here, by contrast,
the Government seeks to use the grand jury’s probable cause
determination to strip the Kaleys of their counsel of choice. The
Kaleys can take no comfort that they will be able to vindicate that
right in a future adversarial proceeding. Once trial begins with
someone other than chosen counsel, the right is lost, and it cannot
be restored based on what happens at trial. “The fundamental
requirement of due process is the opportunity to be heard ‘at
a meaningful time and in a meaningful manner.’ ”
Mathews, 424 U. S., at 333 (quoting Armstrong v. Manzo, 380
U. S. 545, 552 (1965) ). If the Kaleys are to have any
opportunity to meaningfully challenge that deprivation, they must
have it before the trial begins.

															*  *  *

															     The issues presented
here implicate some of the most fundamental precepts underlying the
American criminal justice system. A person accused by the United
States of committing a crime is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. But he faces a foe of powerful
might and vast resources, intent on seeing him behind bars. That
individual has the right to choose the advocate he believes will
most ably defend his liberty at trial.

															     The trial is governed
by rules designed to ensure that, whatever the ultimate verdict, we
can be confident to the extent possible that justice was done,
within the bounds of the Constitution. That confidence is grounded
in our belief in the adversary system. “The very premise of
our adversary system of criminal justice is that partisan advocacy
on both sides of a case will best promote the ultimate objective
that the guilty be convicted and the innocent go free.”
Herring v. New York, 422 U. S. 853, 862 (1975) . Today’s
decision erodes that confidence by permitting the Government to
deprive a criminal defendant of his right to counsel of choice,
without so much as a chance to be heard on why such a significant
pretrial deprivation is unwarranted.

															     The majority wraps up
its analysis by blandly noting that Congress is of course free to
extend broader protection to criminal defendants. Ante, at 20. Not
very likely. In this area it is to the courts that those charged
with crime must turn.

															     Federal prosecutors,
when they rise in court, represent the people of the United States.
But so do defense lawyers—one at a time. In my view, the
Court’s opinion pays insufficient respect to the importance
of an independent bar as a check on prosecutorial abuse and
government overreaching. Granting the Government the power to take
away a defendant’s chosen advocate strikes at the heart of
that significant role. I would not do it, and so respectfully
dissent.

Notes
1
 Because the District
Court in had imposed the restraining order after an
“extensive, 4-day hearing on the question of probable
cause,” it was “pointless” for this Court to
decide whether a hearing was required to “adequately
establish[ ]” probable cause.491 U. S., at 615, n.
10, 616.
2
 The majority’s only
response is to characterize the grand jury’s finding of
traceability as merely a “technical matter.” at 11,
n. 9. But the indictment draws no distinction between the
grand jury’s finding of probable cause to believe that the
Kaleys committed a crime and its finding of probable cause to
believe that certain assets are traceable to that crime. Both
showings must be made to justify a pretrial asset restraint under ,
and there is nothing in that case or the indictment that justifies
treating one grand jury finding differently than the
other.
3
 The majority cites cases
in which courts have correctly rejected requests for a judicial
redetermination of the grand jury’s probable cause finding
for purposes of determining whether the of pretrial detention is
triggered. See at 8–9, n. 6. But those cases do not
question the judge’s authority to consider the underlying
merits of the Government’s case (including what the grand
jury has alleged in the indictment) for purposes of determining
whether that presumption has been rebutted. v. , 783 F. 2d
702, 706 (CA7 1986) (“evidence probative of guilt is admitted
at a detention hearing only to support or challenge the weight of
the gov-ernment’s case against the defendant”); see
also v. , 583 F. Supp. 2d 513, 517 (SDNY 2008) (releasing a
defendant pretrial after determining that “the weight of the
evidence now overcomes the presumption of detention”). The
majority notes that this inquiry in the bail context is authorized
by statute, but that does not alter the crucial point: Where the
prosecutor seeks to use the indictment to impose another
significant pretrial consequence on a defendant, judges are allowed
to inquire into the underlying merits of the prosecution (including
the very same matters the grand jury has considered) as part of the
inquiry into whether that consequence is justified, and that has
not resulted in “dissonance” or the undermining of the
grand jury’s role.
4
 Under our due process
precedents, it is clear that the test applies in this case, rather
than the inquiry set forth in v. , . We held in that is
inapplicable when “assessing the validity of state procedural
rules” that “are part of the criminal process.”
at 443. We have therefore applied rather than only when considering
such due process challenges, including, for example, the allocation
of burdens of proof or what type of evidence may be admitted. See,
at 443–446 (burden of proving incompetence to stand trial);
v. , (burden of proving affirmative defense); v. , (admissibility
of testimony about a prior crime of which the defendant was
acquitted). This case is not about such questions, but about the
collateral issue of the pretrial deprivation of property a
defendant needs to exercise his right to counsel of choice.
therefore provides the relevant inquiry.
5
 The Government and the
majority place particular emphasis on the use of forfeited assets
to provide restitution to victims of crime. See Brief for United
States 41–42, and n. 14; at 2, n. 1. It is worth
noting in this respect that in prosecuting the other sales
representatives that participated with the Kaleys in the allegedly
fraudulent conduct, the Government’s position as to who
exactly is the “victim” has shifted frequently. See
Brief for Petitioners 9–11 (hospitals); at 18, 21–23
(their employers); Tr. of Oral Arg. 43–44 (hospitals). As one
prosecutor forthrightly acknowledged at the sentencing hearing of
an alleged co-conspirator, “we can’t make
restitution.” Brief for Petitioners 11.


