::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-038
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 434 (2014)
::decision_name::  Paroline v. United States
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–8561

															_________________

															DOYLE RANDALL PAROLINE, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[April 23, 2014]

															

															     Chief Justice
Roberts, with whom Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas join,
dissenting.

															     I certainly agree with
the Court that Amy deserves restitution, and that Congress—by
making restitution mandatory for victims of child
pornography—meant that she have it. Unfortunately, the
restitution statute that Congress wrote for child pornography
offenses makes it impossible to award that relief to Amy in this
case. Instead of tailoring the statute to the unique harms caused
by child pornography, Congress borrowed a generic restitution
standard that makes restitution contingent on the
Government’s ability to prove, “by the preponderance of
the evidence,” “the amount of the loss sustained by a
victim as a result of” the defendant’s crime. 18
U. S. C. §3664(e). When it comes to Paroline’s
crime—possession of two of Amy’s images—it is not
possible to do anything more than pick an arbitrary number for that
“amount.” And arbitrary is not good enough for the
criminal law.

															     The Court attempts to
design a more coherent restitution system, focusing on “the
defendant’s relative role in the causal process that
underlies the victim’s general losses.” Ante, at 21.
But this inquiry, sensible as it may be, is not the one Congress
adopted. After undertaking the inquiry that Congress did require,
the District Court in this case concluded that the Government could
not meet its statutory burden of proof. Before this Court, the
Government all but concedes the point. See Brief for United States
25 (“it is practically impossible to know whether
[Amy’s] losses would have been slightly lower if one were to
subtract one defendant, or ten, or fifty”). I must
regretfully dissent.

															I

															     Section 2259(a) of
Title 18 directs that a district court “shall order
restitution for any offense under this chapter,” which
includes Paroline’s offense of knowingly possessing child
pornography in violation of section 2252. In case Congress’s
purpose were not clear from its use of “shall,” section
2259(b)(4) then emphasizes that “[t]he issuance of a
restitution order under this section is mandatory.”

															     Section 2259(b)(1)
spells out who may receive restitution, and for what. It provides
that “[t]he order of restitution under this section shall
direct the defendant to pay the victim (through the appropriate
court mechanism) the full amount of the victim’s losses as
determined by the court pursuant to [section 2259(b)(2)].”
The term “ ‘victim’ ” is defined as
“the individual harmed as a result of a commission of a crime
under this chapter.” §2259(c). And the term
“ ‘full amount of the victim’s losses’
includes any costs incurred by the victim for . . .
medical services relating to physical, psychiatric, or
psychological care”; “lost income”; and
“any other losses suffered by the victim as a proximate
result of the offense.” §§2259(b)(3)(A), (D),
(F).

															     Section 2259(b)(2) then
describes how the district court must calculate restitution. It
provides that “[a]n order of restitution under this section
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with section 3664 in the
same manner as an order under section 3663A.” Unlike section
2259, sections 3663A and 3664 were not designed specifically for
child pornography offenses; they are part of the Mandatory Victims
Restitution Act of 1996 and supply general resti-tution guidelines
for many federal offenses. Most relevant here, section 3664(e)
provides that “[a]ny dispute as to the proper amount or type
of restitution shall be resolved by the court by the preponderance
of the evidence. The burden of demonstrating the amount of the loss
sustained by a victim as a result of the offense shall be on the
attorney for the Government.”

															A

															     As the Court
explains, the statute allows restitution only for those losses that
were the “proximate result” of Paroline’s
offense. See ante, at 9–11 (citing §2259(b)(3)).
Contrary to Paroline’s argument, the proximate cause
re-quirement is easily satisfied in this case. It was readily
foreseeable that Paroline’s crime could cause Amy to suffer
precisely the types of losses that she claims: future lost wages,
costs for treatment and counseling, and attorney’s fees and
costs, all of which are eligible losses enumerated in section
2259(b)(3). There is a “direct relation” between those
types of injuries and Paroline’s “injurious
conduct.” Holmes v. Securities Investor Protection
Corporation, 503 U. S. 258, 268 (1992) . I therefore agree
with the Court that if Paroline actually caused those losses, he
also proximately caused them. See ante, at 12.

															     The more pressing
problem is the statutory requirement of actual causation. See
Burrage v. United States, 571 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op.,
at 6) (the ordinary meaning of the term “results from”
requires proof that the defendant’s conduct was the
“actual cause” of the injury). Here too the Court
correctly holds that the statute precludes the restitution award
sought by Amy and preferred by Justice Sotomayor’s dissent,
which would hold Paroline responsible for Amy’s entire loss.
See ante, at 16–19; contra, post, at 7–16. Congress has
authorized restitution only for “the amount of the loss
sustained by a victim as a result of the offense.”
§3664(e). We have interpreted virtually identical language, in
the predecessor statute to section 3664, to require
“restitution to be tied to the loss caused by the offense of
conviction.” Hughey v. United States, 495 U. S. 411, 418
(1990) (citing 18 U. S. C. §3580(a) (1982 ed.);
emphasis added). That is, restitution may not be imposed for losses
caused by any other crime or any other defendant.[1]

															     Justice
Sotomayor’s dissent dismisses section 3664(e), which is
Congress’s direct answer to the very question presented by
this case, namely, how to resolve a “dispute as to the proper
amount . . . of restitution.” Justice Sotomayor
thinks the answer to that question begins and ends with the
statement in section 2259(b)(1) that the defendant must pay
“the full amount of the victim’s losses.” See
post, at 1, 2, 10, 15. But losses from what? Theanswer is found in
the rest of that sentence: “the full amount of the
victim’s losses as determined by the court pursuant to
paragraph 2.” §2259(b)(1) (emphasis added).
“[P]aragraph 2,” of course, instructs that “[a]n
order of restitution under this section shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with section 3664 in the same manner as an
order under section 3663A.” §2259(b)(2). And it is
section 3664 that provides the statute’s burden of proof and
specifies that the defendant pay for those losses sustained
“as a result of the offense”—that is, his
offense. §3664(e).

															     The offense of
conviction here was Paroline’s possession of two of
Amy’s images. No one suggests Paroline’s crime actually
caused Amy to suffer millions of dollars in losses, so the statute
does not allow a court to award millions of dollars in restitution.
Determining what amount the statute does allow—the amount of
Amy’s losses that Paro-line’s offense caused—is
the real difficulty of this case. See ante, at 12.

															B

															     Regrettably, Congress
provided no mechanism for answering that question. If actual
causation is to be determined using the traditional, but-for
standard, then the Court acknowledges that “a showing of
but-for causation cannot be made” in this case. Ante, at 12.
Amy would have incurred all of her lost wages and counseling costs
even if Paroline had not viewed her images. The Government and Amy
respond by offering an “aggregate” causation theory
borrowed from tort law. But even if we apply this “legal
fiction,” ante, at 15, and assume, for purposes of argument,
that Paroline’s crime contributed something to Amy’s
total losses, that suffices only to establish causation in fact. It
is not sufficient to award restitution under the statute, which
requires a further determination of the amount that Paroline must
pay. He must pay “the full amount of the victim’s
losses,” yes, but “as determined by” section
3664—that is, the full amount of the losses he caused. The
Government has the burden to establish that amount, and no one has
suggested a plausible means for the Government to carry that
burden.[2]

															     The problem stems from
the nature of Amy’s injury. As explained, section 3664 is a
general statute designed to provide restitution for more common
crimes, such as fraud and assault. The section 3664(e) standard
will work just fine for most crime victims, because it will usually
not be difficult to identify the harm caused by the
defendant’s offense. The dispute will usually just be over
the amount of the victim’s loss—for example, the value
of lost assets or the cost of a night in the hospital.

															     Amy has a qualitatively
different injury. Her loss, while undoubtedly genuine, is a result
of the collective actions of a huge number of
people—beginning with her uncle who abused her and put her
images on the Internet, to the distributors who make those images
more widely avail-able, to the possessors such as Paroline who view
her im-ages. The harm to Amy was produced over time, gradually, by
tens of thousands of persons acting independently from one
another.[3] She suffers in
particular from her knowledge that her images are being viewed
online by an unknown number of people, and from her fear that any
person she meets might recognize her from having witnessed her
abuse. App. 59–66. But Amy does not know who Paroline is.
Id., at 295, n. 11. Nothing in the record comes close to
establishing that Amy would have suffered less if Paroline had not
possessed her images, let alone how much less. See Brief for United
States 25. Amy’s injury is indivisible, which means that
Paroline’s particular share of her losses is unknowable. And
yet it is proof of Paroline’s particular share that the
statute requires.

															     By simply importing the
generic restitution statute without accounting for the diffuse harm
suffered by victims of child pornography, Congress set up a
restitution system sure to fail in cases like this one. Perhaps a
case with different facts, say, a single distributor and only a
handful of possessors, would be susceptible of the proof the
statute requires. But when tens of thousands of copies (or more) of
Amy’s images have changed hands all across the world for more
than a decade, a demand for the Government to prove “the
amount of the loss sustained by a victim as a result of the
offense”—the offense before the court in any particular
case—is a demand for the impos-sible. §3664(e) (emphasis
added). When Congress con-ditioned restitution on the
Government’s meeting that burden of proof, it effectively
precluded restitution inmost cases involving possession or
distribution of child pornography.

															II

															     The District Court in
Paroline’s case found that the Government could not meet its
statutory burden of proof. The Government does not really contest
that holding here; it instead asks to be held to a less demanding
standard. Having litigated this issue for years now in virtually
every Circuit, the best the Government has come up with is to tell
courts awarding restitution to look at what other courts have done.
But that is not a workable guide, not least because courts have
taken vastly different approaches to materially indistinguishable
cases. According to the Government’s lodging in this case,
District Courts awarding less than Amy’s full losses have
imposed restitution orders varying from $50 to $530,000.[4] Restitution Awards for Amy Through
December 11, 2013, Lodging of United States. How is a court
supposed to use those figures as any sort of guidance? Pick the
median figure? The mean? Something else?

															     More to the point, the
Government’s submission lacks any basis in law. That the
first district courts confronted with Amy’s case awarded
$1,000, or $5,000, or $530,000, for no articulable reason, is not a
legal basis for awarding one of those figures in Paroline’s
case. The statute requires proof of this defendant’s harm
done, not the going rate. And of course, as the Government
acknowledges, its approach “doesn’t work very
well” in the first case brought by a particular victim. Tr.
of Oral Arg. 24.

															     The majority’s
proposal is to have a district court “assess as best it can
from available evidence the significance of the individual
defendant’s conduct in light of the broader causal process
that produced the victim’s losses.” Ante,at 22. Even if
that were a plausible way to design a restitution system for
Amy’s complex injury, there is no way around the fact that it
is not the system that Congress created. The statute requires
restitution to be based exclusively on the losses that resulted
from the defendant’s crime—not on the defendant’s
relative culpability. The majority’s plan to situate Paroline
along a spectrum of offenders who have contributed to Amy’s
harm will not assist a district court in calculating the amount of
Amy’s losses—the amount of her lost wages and
counseling costs—that was caused by Paroline’s crime
(or that of any other defendant).

															     The Court is correct,
of course, that awarding Amy no restitution would be contrary to
Congress’s remedial and penological purposes. See ante, at
20. But we have previously refused to allow “policy
considerations”—including an “expansive
declaration of purpose,” and the need to “compensate
victims for the full losses they suffered”—to deter us
from reading virtually identical statutory language to require
proof of the harm caused solely by the defendant’s particular
offense. Hughey, 495 U. S., at 420–421.

															     Moreover, even the
Court’s “relative role in the causal process”
approach to the statute, ante, at 21, is unlikely to make Amy
whole. To the extent that district courts do form a sort of
consensus on how much to award, experience shows that the amount in
any particular case will be quite small—the significant
majority of defendants have been ordered to pay Amy $5,000 or less.
Lodging of United States. This means that Amy will be stuck
litigatingfor years to come. The Court acknowledges that Amy may
end up with “piecemeal” restitution, yet responds
simply that “Congress has not promised victims full and swift
restitution at all costs.” Ante, at 24.

															     Amy will fare no better
if district courts consider the other factors suggested by the
majority, including the number of defendants convicted of
possessing Amy’s im-ages, a rough estimate of those likely to
be convicted in the future, and an even rougher estimate of the
total number of persons involved in her harm. Ante, at 23. In the
first place, only the last figure is relevant, because
Paroline’s relative significance can logically be measured
only in light of everyone who contributed to Amy’s
injury—not just those who have been, or will be, caught and
convicted. Even worse, to the extent it is possible to project the
total number of persons who have viewed Amy’s images, that
number is tragically large, which means that restitution awards
tied to it will lead to a pitiful recovery in every case. See Brief
for Respondent Amy 65 (estimating Paro-line’s
“ ‘market share’ ” of Amy’s
harm at 1/71,000, or $47). The majority says that courts should not
impose “trivial restitution orders,” ante, at 23, but
it is hard to see how a court fairly assessing this
defendant’s relative contribution could do anything else.

															     Nor can confidence in
judicial discretion save the statute from arbitrary application.
See ante, at 22, 25–26. It is true that district courts
exercise substantial discretion in awarding restitution and
imposing sentences in general. But they do not do so by mere
instinct. Courts are instead guided by statutory standards: in the
restitution context, a fair determination of the losses caused by
the individual defendant under section 3664(e); in sentencing more
generally, the detailed factors in section 3553(a). A contrary
approach—one that asks district judges to impose restitution
or other criminal punishment guided solely by their own intuitions
regarding comparative fault—would undermine the requirement
that every criminal defendant receive due process of law.

															*  *  *

															     The Court’s
decision today means that Amy will not go home with nothing. But it
would be a mistake for that salutary outcome to lead readers to
conclude that Amy has prevailed or that Congress has done justice
for victims of child pornography. The statute as written allows no
recovery; we ought to say so, and give Congress a chance to fix
it.

															     I respectfully
dissent.

Notes
1
 In a case “where
the loss is the product of the combined conduct of multiple
offenders,” at 7 (, J., dissenting), section 3664(h) provides
that a court may “make each defendant liable for payment of
the full amount of restitution or may apportion liability among the
defendants to reflect the level of contribution to the
victim’s loss and economic circumstances of each
defendant.” As the Court notes, however, this provision
applies only when multiple defendants are sentenced in the same
proceeding, or charged under the same indictment. at 22; see also
Brief for United States 43.
2
 The correct amount is not
the one favored by ’s dissent, which would hold Paroline
liable for losses that he certainly cause, without any right to
seek contribution from others who harmed Amy.
3
 The gang assaults
discussed by , at 8, are not a fair analogy. The gang members in
those cases acted together, with a common plan, each one aiding and
abetting the others in inflicting harm. But Paroline has never met
or interacted with any, or virtually any, of the other persons who
contributed to Amy’s injury, and his possession offense did
not aid or abet anyone.
4
 Amy’s
uncle—the initial source of of her injuries—was ordered
to pay $6,325 in restitution, which only underscores how arbitrary
the statute is when applied to most child pornography
offenses.


