::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-033
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 185 (2014)
::decision_name::  McCutcheon v. FEC
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–536

															_________________

															SHAUN McCUTCHEON, et al., APPELLANTS v.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

															on appeal from the united states district
court for the district of columbia

															[April 2, 2014]

															

															     Justice Thomas,
concurring in the judgment.

															     I adhere to the view
that this Court’s decision in Buckley v. Valeo, 424
U. S. 1 (1976) (per curiam), denigrates core First Amendment
speech and should be overruled. See Randall v. Sorrell, 548
U. S. 230 –267 (2006) (Thomas, J., concurring in
judgment); Federal Election Comm’n v. Beaumont, 539
U. S. 146 –165 (2003) (Thomas, J., dissenting); Federal
Election Comm’n v. Colorado Republican Federal Campaign
Comm., 533 U. S. 431 –466 (2001) (Colorado II) (Thomas,
J., dissenting); Nixon v. Shrink Missouri Government PAC, 528
U. S. 377 –420 (2000) (Thomas, J., dissenting); Colorado
Republican Federal Campaign Comm. v. Federal Election Comm’n,
518 U. S. 604 –640 (1996) (Colorado I ) (Thomas,
J., concurring in judgment and dissenting in part).

															     Political speech is
“ ‘the primary object of First Amendment
protection’ ” and “the lifeblood of a
self-governing people.” Colorado II, supra, at 465–466
(Thomas, J., dissenting). Contributions to political campaigns, no
less than direct expenditures, “generate essential political
speech” by fostering discussion of public issues and can-
didate qualifications. Shrink Missouri, supra, at 412 (Thomas, J.,
dissenting); see also id., at 410–411. Buckley itself
recognized that both contribution and expenditure limits
“operate in an area of the most fundamental First Amendment
activities” and “implicate fundamental First Amendment
interests.” 424 U. S., at 14, 23. But instead of
treating political giving and political spending alike, Buckley
distinguished the two, embracing a bifurcated standard of review
under which contribution limits receive less rigorous scrutiny.
Id., at 25.

															     As I have explained
before, “[t]he analytic foundation of Buckley . . . was
tenuous from the very beginning and has only continued to erode in
the intervening years.” Shrink Missouri, supra, at 412
(Thomas, J., dissenting). To justify a lesser standard of review
for contribution limits, Buckley relied on the premise that
contributions are different in kind from direct expenditures. None
of the Court’s bases for that premise withstands careful
review. The linchpin of the Court’s analysis was its
assertion that “[w]hile contributions may result in political
expression if spent by a candidate or an association to present
views to the voters, the transformation of contributions into
political debate involves speech by someone other than the
contributor.” 424 U. S., at 21. But that
“ ‘speech by proxy’ ” rationale
quickly breaks down, given that “[e]ven in the case of a
direct expenditure, there is usually some go-between that
facilitates the dissemination of the spender’s
message—for instance, an advertising agency or a television
station.” Colorado I, supra, at 638–639 (opinion of
Thomas, J.). Moreover, we have since rejected the
“ ‘proxy speech’ ” approach as
affording insufficient First Amendment protection to “the
voices of those of modest means as opposed to those sufficiently
wealthy to be able to buy expensive media ads with their own
resources.” Federal Election Comm’n v. National
Conservative Political Action Comm., 470 U. S. 480, 495 (1985)
; see Shrink Missouri, supra, at 413–414 (Thomas, J.,
dissenting).

															     The remaining
justifications Buckley provided are also flawed. For example,
Buckley claimed that contribution limits entail only a
“marginal” speech restriction because “[a]
contribution serves as a general expression of support for the
candidate and his views, but does not communicate the underlying
basis for the support.” 424 U. S., at 20, 21. But this
Court has never required a speaker to explain the reasons for his
position in order to obtain full First Amendment protection.
Instead, we have consistently held that speech is protected even
“when the underlying basis for a position is not
given.” Shrink Missouri, supra, at 415, n. 3 (Thomas,
J., dissenting); see, e.g., City of Ladue v. Gilleo, 512 U. S.
43, 46 (1994) (sign reading “For Peace in the Gulf”);
Texas v. Johnson, 491 U. S. 397 –416 (1989) (flag
burning); Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School Dist.,
393 U. S. 503 –511 (1969) (black armband signifying
opposition to Vietnam War); see also Colorado I, supra, at 640
(opinion of Thomas, J.) (“Even a pure message of support,
unadorned with reasons, is valuable to the democratic
process”)

															     Equally unpersuasive is
Buckley’s suggestion that contribution limits warrant less
stringent review because “[t]he quantity of communication by
the contributor does not increase perceptibly with the size of his
contribution,” and “[a]t most, the size of the
contribution provides a very rough index of the intensity of the
contributor’s support for the candidate.” 424
U. S., at 21. Contributions do in- crease the quantity of
communication by “amplifying the voice of the
candidate” and “help[ing] to ensure the dissemination
of the messages that the contributor wishes to convey.”
Shrink Missouri, supra, at 415 (Thomas, J., dissenting). They also
serve as a quantifiable metric of the intensity of a particular
contributor’s support, as demonstrated by the frequent
practice of giving different amounts to different candidates.
Buckley simply failed to recognize that “we have accorded
full First Amendment protection to expressions of intensity.”
Id., at 415, n. 3; see also Cohen v. California, 403 U. S. 15
–26 (1971) (protecting the use of an obscenity for
emphasis).

															     Although today’s
decision represents a faithful application of our precedents, the
plurality’s discussion of Buckley omits any reference to
these discarded rationales. Instead, the plurality alludes only to
Buckley’s last remaining reason for devaluing political
contributions relative to expenditures. See ante, at 8 (quoting
Buckley, 424 U. S., at 21). The relevant sentence from Buckley
reads as follows:

															“A limitation on the amount of money
a person may give to a candidate or campaign organization thus
involves little direct restraint on his political commu- nication,
for it permits the symbolic expression of support evidenced by a
contribution but does not in any way infringe the
contributor’s freedom to discuss candidates and
issues.” Ibid.

															That proposition, read in full, cannot be
squared with a key premise of today’s decision.

															     Among the
Government’s justifications for the aggregate limits set
forth in the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (BCRA) is that
“an individual can engage in the ‘symbolic act of
contributing’ to as many entities as he wishes.” Brief
for Appellee 20. That is, the Government contends that aggregate
limits are constitutional as long as an individual can still
contribute some token amount (a dime, for example) to each of his
preferred candidates. The plurality, quite correctly, rejects that
argument, noting that “[i]t is no answer to say that the
individual can simply contribute less money to more people.”
Ante, at 16. That is so because “[t]o require one person to
contribute at lower levels than others because he wants to support
more candidates or causes is to impose a special burden on broader
participation in the democratic process.” Ibid.

															     What the plurality does
not recognize is that the same logic also defeats the reasoning
from Buckley on which the plurality purports to rely. Under the
plurality’s analysis, limiting the amount of money a person
may give to a candidate does impose a direct restraint on his
political communication; if it did not, the aggregate limits at
issue here would not create “a special burden on broader
participation in the democratic process.” Ibid. I am wholly
in agreement with the plurality’s conclusion on this point:
“[T]he Government may not penalize an individual for
‘robustly exercis[ing]’ his First Amendment
rights.” Ibid. (quoting Davis v. Federal Election
Comm’n, 554 U. S. 724, 739 (2008) ). I regret only that
the plurality does not acknowledge that today’s decision,
although purporting not to overrule Buckley, continues to chip away
at its footings.

															     In sum, what remains of
Buckley is a rule without a rationale. Contributions and
expenditures are simply “two sides of the same First
Amendment coin,” and our ef- forts to distinguish the two
have produced mere “word games” rather than any
cognizable principle of constitutional law. Buckley, supra, at 241,
244 (Burger, C. J., concurring in part and dissenting in
part). For that reason, I would overrule Buckley and subject the
aggregate limits in BCRA to strict scrutiny, which they would
surely fail. See Colorado I, 518 U. S., at 640–641
(opinion of Thomas, J.) (“I am convinced that under
traditional strict scrutiny, broad prophylactic caps on both
spending and giving in the political process . . . are
unconstitutional”).

															     This case represents
yet another missed opportunity to right the course of our campaign
finance jurisprudence by restoring a standard that is faithful to
the First Amendment. Until we undertake that reexamination, we
remain in a “halfway house” of our own design. Shrink
Missouri, 528 U. S., at 410 (Kennedy, J., dissenting). For
these reasons, I concur only in the judgment.

													
