::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-027
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 25 (2014)
::decision_name::  BG Group plc v. Republic of Argentina
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–138

															_________________

															BG GROUP plc, PETITIONER v. REPUBLIC
OFARGENTINA

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit

															[March 5, 2014]

															

															     Chief Justice
Roberts, with whom Justice Kennedy joins, dissenting.

															     The Court begins by
deciding a different case, “initially treat[ing] the document
before us as if it were an ordinary contract between private
parties.” Ante, at 6. The “document before us,”
of course, is nothing of the sort. It is instead a treaty between
two sovereign nations: the United Kingdom and Argentina. No
investor is a party to the agreement. Having elided this rather
important fact for much of its analysis, the majority finally
“relax[es] [its] ordinary contract assumption and ask[s]
whether the fact that the document before us is a treaty makes a
critical difference to [its] analysis.” Ante, at 10. It
should come as no surprise that, after starting down the wrong
road, the majority ends up at the wrong place.

															     I would start with the
document that is before us and take it on its own terms. That
document is a bilateral investment treaty between the United
Kingdom and Argentina, in which Argentina agreed to take steps to
encourage U. K. investors to invest within its borders (and
the United Kingdom agreed to do the same with respect to Argentine
investors). Agreement for the Promotion and Protection of
Investments, Dec. 11, 1990, 1765 U. N. T. S. 33 (Treaty). The
Treaty does indeed contain a completed agreement for
arbitration—between the signatory countries. Art. 9. The
Treaty also includes, in Article 8, certain provisions for
resolving any disputes that might arise between a signatory country
and an investor, who is not a party to the agreement.

															     One such
provision—completely ignored by the Court in its
analysis—specifies that disputes may be resolved by
arbitration when the host country and an investor “have so
agreed.” Art. 8(2)(b), 1765 U. N. T. S. 38. No one doubts
that, as is the normal rule, whether there was such an agreement is
for a court, not an arbitrator, to decide. See First Options of
Chicago, Inc. v. Kaplan, 514 U. S. 938 –945 (1995).

															     When there is no
express agreement between the host country and an investor, they
must form an agreement in another way, before an obligation to
arbitrate arises. The Treaty by itself cannot constitute an
agreement to arbitrate with an investor. How could it? No investor
is a party to that Treaty. Something else must happen to create an
agreement where there was none before. Article 8(2)(a) makes clear
what that something is: An investor must submit his dispute to the
courts of the host country. After 18 months, or an unsatisfactory
decision, the investor may then request arbitration.

															     Submitting the dispute
to the courts is thus a condition to the formation of an agreement,
not simply a matter of performing an existing agreement. Article
8(2)(a) constitutes in effect a unilateral offer to arbitrate,
which an investor may accept by complying with its terms. To be
sure, the local litigation requirement might not be absolute. In
particular, an investor might argue that it was an implicit aspect
of the unilateral offer that he be afforded a reasonable
opportunity to submit his dispute to the local courts. Even then,
however, the question would remain whether the investor has managed
to form an arbitration agreement with the host country pursuant to
Article 8(2)(a). That question under Article 8(2)(a) is—like
the same question under Article 8(2)(b)—for a court, not an
arbitrator, to decide. I respectfully dissent from the
Court’s contrary conclusion.

															I

															     The majority
acknowledges—but fails to heed—“the first
principle that underscores all of our arbitration decisions:
Arbitration is strictly ‘a matter of
consent.’ ” Granite Rock Co. v. Teamsters, 561
U. S. 287, 299 (2010) (quoting Volt Information Sciences, Inc.
v. Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior Univ., 489
U. S. 468, 479 (1989) ); see ante, at 7. We have accordingly
held that arbitration “is a way to resolve those
disputes—but only those disputes—that the parties have
agreed to submit to arbitration.” First Options of Chicago,
Inc., supra, at 943. The same “first principle”
underlies arbitration pursuant to bilateral investment treaties.
See C. Dugan, D. Wallace, N. Rubins, & B. Sabahi,
Investor-State Arbitration 219 (2008) (Dugan); J. Salacuse, The Law
of Investment Treaties 385 (2010); K. Vandevelde, Bilateral
Investment Treaties: History, Policy, and Interpretation 433
(2010). So only if Argentina agreed with BG Group to have an
arbitrator resolve their dispute did the arbitrator in this case
have any authority over the parties.

															     The majority opinion
nowhere explains when and how Argentina agreed with BG Group to
submit to arbitration. Instead, the majority seems to assume that,
in agreeing with the United Kingdom to adopt Article 8 along with
the rest of the Treaty, Argentina thereby formed an agreement with
all potential U. K. investors (including BG Group) to submit
all investment-related disputes to arbitration. That misunderstands
Article 8 and trivializes the significance to a sovereign nation of
subjecting itself to arbitration anywhere in the world, solely at
the option of private parties.

															A

															     The majority focuses
throughout its opinion on what it calls the Treaty’s
“arbitration clause,” ante, at 1, but that provision
does not stand alone. Rather, it is only part—and a
subordinate part at that—of a broader dispute resolution
provision. Article 8 is thus entitled “Settlement of Disputes
Between an Investor and the Host State,” and it opens without
so much as mentioning arbitration. 1765 U. N. T. S. 37. Instead it
initially directs any disputing investor and signatory country
(what the Treaty calls a “Contracting Party”) to court.
When “an investor of one Contracting Party and the other
Contracting Party” have an investment-related dispute that
has “not been amicably settled,” the Treaty commands
that the dispute “shall be submitted, at the request of one
of the Parties to the dispute, to the decision of the competent
tribunal of the Contracting Party in whose territory the investment
was made.” Art. 8(1), id., at 37–38. (emphasis added).
This provision could not be clearer: Before taking any other steps,
an aggrieved investor must submit its dispute with a Contracting
Party to that Contracting Party’s own courts.

															     There are two routes to
arbitration in Article 8(2)(a), and each passes through a
Contracting Party’s domestic courts. That is, the
Treaty’s arbitration provisions in Article 8(2)(a) presuppose
that the parties have complied with the local litigation provision
in Article 8(1). Specifically, a party may request arbitration only
(1) “after a period of eighteen months has elapsed from the
moment when the dispute was submitted to the competent tribunal of
the Contracting Party in whose territory the investment was
made” and “the said tribunal has not given its final
decision,” Art. 8(2)(a)(i), id., at 38, or (2) “where
the final decision of the aforementioned tribunal has been made but
the Parties are still in dispute,” Art. 8(2)(a)(ii), ibid.
Either way, the obligation to arbitrate does not arise until the
Contracting Party’s courts have had a first crack at the
dispute.

															     Article 8 provides a
third route to arbitration in paragraph 8(2)(b)—namely,
“where the Contracting Party and the investor of the other
Contracting Party have so agreed.” Ibid. In contrast to the
two routes in Article 8(2)(a), this one does not refer to the local
litigation provision. That omission is significant. It makes clear
that an investor can bypass local litigation only by obtaining the
Contracting Party’s explicit agreement to proceed directly to
arbitration. Short of that, an investor has no choice but to
litigate in the Contracting Party’s courts for at least some
period.

															     The structure of
Article 8 confirms that the routes to arbitration in paragraph
(2)(a) are just as much about eliciting a Contracting Party’s
consent to arbitrate as the route in paragraph 8(2)(b). Under
Article 8(2)(b), the requisite consent is demonstrated by a
specific agreement. Under Article 8(2)(a), the requisite consent is
demonstrated by compliance with the requirement to resort to a
country’s local courts.

															     Whereas Article 8(2)(a)
is part of a completed agreement between Argentina and the United
Kingdom, it constitutes only a unilateral standing offer by
Argentina with respect to U. K. investors—an offer to
submit to arbitration where certain conditions are met. That is how
scholars understand arbitration provisions in bilateral investment
treaties in general. See Dugan 221; Salacuse 381; Brief for
Practitioners and Professors of International Arbitration Law as
Amici Curiae 4. And it is how BG Group itself describes this
investment treaty in particular. See Brief for Petitioner 43 (the
Treaty is a “standing offer” by Argentina “to
arbitrate”); Reply Brief 9 (same).

															     An offer must be
accepted for a legally binding contract to be formed. And it is an
“undeniable principle of the law of contracts, that an offer
. . . by one person to another, imposes no obligation
upon the former, until it is accepted by the latter, according to
the terms in which the offerwas made. Any qualification of, or
departure from, those terms, invalidates the offer.” Eliason
v. Henshaw, 4 Wheat. 225, 228 (1819) (emphasis added). This
principle applies to international arbitration agreements just as
it does to domestic commercial contracts. See Dugan 221–222;
Salacuse 381; Schreuer, Consent to Arbitration, in The Oxford
Handbook of International Investment Law 830, 836–837 (P.
Muchlinski, F. Ortino, & C. Schreuer eds. 2008).

															     By incorporating the
local litigation provision in Article 8(1), paragraph 8(2)(a)
establishes that provision as a term of Argentina’s
unilateral offer to arbitrate. To accept Argentina’s offer,
an investor must therefore first litigate its dispute in
Argentina’s courts—either to a “final
decision” or for 18 months, whichever comes first. Unless the
investor does so (or, perhaps, establishes a valid excuse for
failing to do so, as discussed below, see infra, at 17), it has not
accepted the terms of Argentina’s offer to arbitrate, and
thus has not formed an arbitration agreement with
Argentina.[1]

															     Although the majority
suggests that the local litigation requirement would not be a
“condition of consent” even if the Treaty explicitly
called it one, the Court’s holding is limited to treaties
that contain no such clear statement. See ante, at 11–13. But
there is no reason to think that such a clear statement should be
required, for we generally do not require “talismanic
words” in treaties. Medellínv. Texas, 552 U. S.
491, 521 (2008) . Indeed, another arbi-tral tribunal concluded that
the local litigation require-ment was a condition on
Argentina’s consent to arbitrate despite the absence of the
sort of clear statement apparently contemplated by the majority.
See ICS Inspection & Control Servs. Ltd. v. Argentine Republic,
PCA Case No. 2010–9, Award on Jurisdiction, ¶262 (Feb.
10, 2012). Still other tribunals have reached the same conclusion
with regard to similar litigation requirements in other Argentine
bilateral investment treaties. See Daimler Financial Servs. AG v.
Argentine Republic, ICSID Case No. ARB/05/1, Award,
¶¶193, 194 (Aug. 22, 2012); Wintershall
Aktiengesellschaft v. Argentine Republic, ICSID Case No. ARB/04/14,
Award, ¶116 (Dec. 8, 2008).

															     In the face of this
authority, the majority quotes a treatise for the proposition that
“ ‘[a] substantial body of arbitral authority from
investor-state disputes concludes that compliance with procedural
mechanisms in an arbitration agreement (or bilateral investment
treaty) is not ordinarily a jurisdictional
prerequisite.’ ” Ante, at 16 (quoting 1 G. Born,
International Commercial Arbitration 842 (2009)). But that simply
restates the question. The whole issue is whether the local
litigation requirement is a mere “procedural mechanism”
or instead a condition on Argentina’s consent to
arbitrate.

															     BG Group concedes that
other terms of Article 8(1) constitute conditions on
Argentina’s consent to arbitrate, even though they are not
expressly labeled as such. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 57 (“You have
to be a U. K. investor, you have to have a treaty claim, you have
to be suing another party to the treaty. And if those aren’t
true, then there is no arbitration agreement” (emphasis
added)). The Court does not explain why the only other
term—the litigation requirement—should be viewed
differently.

															     Nor does the
majority’s reading accord with ordinary contract law, which
treats language such as the word “after” in Article
8(2)(a)(i) as creating conditions, even though such language may
not constitute a “clear state-ment.” See 13 R. Lord,
Williston on Contracts §38:16 (4th ed. 2013). The majority
seems to regard the local litigation requirement as a condition
precedent to performance of the contract, rather than a condition
precedent to formation of the contract. Ante, at 8–9; see 13
Lord §§38:4, 38:7. But that cannot be. Prior to the
fulfillment ofthe local litigation requirement, there was no
contract be-tween Argentina and BG Group to be performed. The
Treaty is not such an agreement, since BG Group is of course not a
party to the Treaty. Neither the majority nor BG Group contends
that the agreement is under Article 8(2)(b), the provision that
applies “where the Contracting Party and the investor of the
other Contracting Party have so agreed.” An arbitration
agreement must be formed, and Article 8(2)(a) spells out how an
investor may do that: by submitting the dispute to local courts for
18 months or until a decision is rendered.

															     Moreover, the
Treaty’s local litigation requirement certainly does not
resemble “time limits, notice, laches, estoppel,” or
the other kinds of provisions that are typically treated as
conditions on the performance of an arbitra-tion agreement, rather
than prerequisites to formation. Revised Uniform Arbitration Act of
2000 §6(c), Comment 2, 7 U. L. A. 26 (2009). Unlike a
time limit for submitting a claim to arbitration, see Howsam v.
Dean Witter Rey-nolds, Inc., 537 U. S. 79, 85 (2002) , the
litigation requirement does not simply regulate the timing of
arbitration. As the majority recognizes, ante, at 15–16, the
provision does not simply require the parties to wait for 18 months
before proceeding to arbitration, but instead requires them to
submit their claims for adjudication during that period. And unlike
a mandatory pre-arbitration grievance procedure, see John Wiley
& Sons, Inc. v. Livingston, 376 U. S. 543 –559 (1964),
the litigation requirement sends the parties to court—and not
just any court, but a court of the host country.

															     The law of
international arbitration and domestic contract law lead to the
same conclusion: Because paragraph (2)(a) of Article 8 constitutes
only a unilateral standing offer by the Contracting Parties to each
other’s investors to submit to arbitration under certain
conditions, an investor cannot form an arbitration agreement with a
Contracting Party under the Treaty until the investor accepts the
actual terms of the Contracting Party’s offer. Absent a valid
excuse, that means litigating its dispute in the Contracting
Party’s courts to a “final decision” or, barring
that, for at least 18 months.

															B

															     The nature of the
obligations a sovereign incurs in agreeing to arbitrate with a
private party confirms that the local litigation requirement is a
condition on a signatory country’s consent to arbitrate, and
not merely a condi-tion on performance of a pre-existing
arbitration agreement. There are good reasons for any sovereign to
condition its consent to arbitrate disputes on investors’
first litigating their claims in the country’s own courts for
a specified period. It is no trifling matter for a sovereign nation
to subject itself to suit by private parties; we do not presume
that any country—including our own—takes that step
lightly. Cf. United States v. Bormes, 568 U. S. ___, ___
(2012) (slip op., at 4) (Congress must “unequivocally
express[ ]” its intent to waive the sovereign immunity of the
United States (quoting United States v. Nordic Village, Inc., 503
U. S. 30, 33 (1992) ; internal quotation marks omitted)). But
even where a sovereign nation has subjected itself to suit in its
own courts, it is quite another thingfor it to subject itself to
international arbitration. Indeed, “[g]ranting a private
party the right to bring an action against a sovereign state in an
international tribunal regarding an investment dispute is a
revolutionary innovation” whose “uniqueness and power
should not be over-looked.” Salacuse 137. That is so because
of both the procedure and substance of investor-state
arbitration.

															     Procedurally, paragraph
(3) of Article 8 designates the Arbitration Rules of the United
Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) as the
default rules governing the arbitration. Those rules authorize the
Secretary-General of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The
Hague to designate an “appointing authority”
who—absent agreement by the parties—can select the sole
arbitrator (or, in the case of a three-member tribunal, the
presiding arbitrator, where the arbitrators nominated by each of
the parties cannot agree on a presiding arbitrator). UNCITRAL
Arbitration Rules, Arts. 6, 8–9 (rev. 2010 ed.). The
arbitrators, in turn, select the site of the arbitration (again,
absent an agreement by the parties) and enjoy broad discretion in
conducting the proceedings. Arts. 18, 17(1).

															     Substantively, by
acquiescing to arbitration, a state permits private adjudicators to
review its public policies and effectively annul the authoritative
acts of its legislature, executive, and judiciary. See Salacuse
355; G. Van Harten, Investment Treaty Arbitration and Public Law
65–67 (2007). Consider the dispute that gave rise to this
case: Before the arbitral tribunal, BG Group challenged multiple
sovereign acts of the Argentine Government taken after the
Argentine economy collapsed in 2001—in particular, Emergency
Law 25,561, which converted dollar-denominated tariffs into
peso-denominated tariffs at arate of one Argentine peso to one
U. S. dollar; Resolution 308/02 and Decree 1090/02, which
established a renegotiation process for public service contracts;
and Decree 214/02, which stayed for 180 days injunctions and the
execution of final judgments in lawsuits challenging the effects of
the Emergency Law. Indeed, in awarding damages to BG Group, the
tribunal held that the first three of these enactments violated
Article 2 of the Treaty. See App. to Pet. for Cert.
241a–242a, 305a.

															     Perhaps they did, but
that is not the issue. Under Article 8, a Contracting Party grants
to private adjudicators not necessarily of its own choosing, who
can meet literally anywhere in the world, a power it typically
reserves to its own courts, if it grants it at all: the power to
sit in judgment on its sovereign acts. Given these stakes, one
would expect the United Kingdom and Argentina to have taken
particular care in specifying the limited circumstances in which
foreign investors can trigger the Treaty’s arbitration
process. And that is precisely what they did in Article 8(2)(a),
requiring investors to afford a country’s own courts an
initial opportunity to review the country’s enactments and
assess the country’s compliance with its international
obligations. Contrast this with Article 9, which provides for
arbitration between the signatory countries of disputes under the
Treaty without any preconditions. Argentina and the United Kingdom
considered arbitration with particular foreign investors to be
different in kind and to require special limitations on its
use.

															     The majority regards
the local litigation requirement as toothless simply because the
Treaty does not require an arbitrator to “give substantive
weight to the local court’s determinations on the matters at
issue between the parties,” ante, at 9; see also ante, at
15–16, but instead provides that “[t]he arbitration
decision shall be final and binding on both Parties,” Art.
8(4), 1765 U. N. T. S. 38. While it is true that an arbitrator need
not defer to an Argentine court’s judgment in an investor
dispute, that does not deprive the litigation requirement of
practical import. Most significant, the Treaty provides that an
“arbitral tribunal shall decide the dispute in accordance
with . . . the laws of the Contracting Party involved in
the dispute.” Art. 8(4), ibid. I doubt that a tribunal would
give no weight to an Argentine court’s authoritative
con-struction of Argentine law, rendered in the same dispute, just
because it might not be formally bound to adopt that
interpretation.

															     The local litigation
requirement can also help to narrow the range of issues that remain
in controversy by the time a dispute reaches arbitration. It might
even induce the parties to settle along the way. And of course the
investor might prevail, which could likewise obviate the need for
arbitration. Cf. McKart v. United States, 395 U. S. 185, 195
(1969) .

															     None of this should be
interpreted as defending Argentina’s history when it comes to
international investment. That history may prompt doubt that
requiring an investor to resort to that country’s courts in
the first instance will be of any use. But that is not the
question. Argentina and the United Kingdom reached agreement on the
term at issue. The question can therefore be rephrased as whether
it makes sense for either Contracting Party to insist on resort to
its courts before being compelled to arbitrate anywhere in the
world before arbitrators not of its choosing. The foregoing reasons
may seem more compelling when viewed apart from the particular
episode before us.

															II

															     Given that the
Treaty’s local litigation requirement is a condition on
consent to arbitrate, it follows that whether an investor has
complied with that requirement is a question a court must decide
de novo, rather than an issue for the arbitrator to decide
subject only to the most deferential judicial review. See, e.g.,
Adams v. Suozzi, 433 F. 3d 220, 226–228 (CA2 2005)
(holding that compliance with a condition on formation of an
arbitration agreement is for a court, rather than an arbitrator, to
determine). The logic is simple: Because an arbitrator’s
authority depends on the consent of the parties, the arbitrator
should not as a rule be able to decide for himself whether the
parties have in fact consented. Where the consent of the parties is
in question, “reference of the gateway dispute to the court
avoids the risk of forcing parties to arbitrate a matter that they
may well not have agreed to arbitrate.” Howsam, 537
U. S., at 83–84.

															     This principle is at
the core of our arbitration precedents. See Granite Rock Co., 561
U. S., at 299 (questions concerning “the formation of
the parties’ arbitration agreement” are for a court to
decide de novo). The same principle is also embedded in the
law of international commercial arbitration. 2 Born 2792
(“[W]here one party denies ever having made an arbitration
agreement or challenges the validity of any such agreement,
. . . the possibility of de novo judicial review of
any jurisdictional award in an annulment action is logically
necessary”). See also Restatement (Third) of U. S. Law
of International Commercial Arbitration §4–12(d)(1)
(Tent. Draft No. 2, Apr. 16, 2012) (“a court determines
de novo . . . the existence of the arbitration
agreement”).

															     Indeed, the question in
this case—whether BG Group accepted the terms of
Argentina’s offer to arbitrate—presents an issue of
contract formation, which is the starkest form of the question
whether the parties have agreed to arbitrate. In Howsam v. Dean
Witter Reynolds, Inc., we gave two examples of questions going to
consent, which are for courts to decide: “whether the parties
are bound by a given arbitration clause” and “whether
an arbitration clause in a concededly binding contract applies to a
particular type of controversy.” 537 U. S., at 84. In
both examples, there is at least a putative arbitration agreement
between the parties to the dispute. The only question is whether
the agreement is truly binding or whether it covers the specific
dispute. Here, by contrast, the question is whether the arbitration
clause in the Treaty between the United Kingdom and Argentina gives
riseto an arbitration agreement between Argentina and BG Group at
all. Cf. ante, at 2 (Sotomayor, J., concurring in part)
(“Consent is especially salient in the context of a bilateral
investment treaty, where the treaty is not an already agreed-upon
arbitration provision between known parties”).

															     The majority never even
starts down this path. Instead, it preempts the whole inquiry by
concluding that the local litigation requirement is the kind of
“procedural precondition” that parties typically expect
an arbitrator to enforce. Ante, at 8–9. But as explained, the
local litigation requirement does not resemble the requirements we
have previously deemed presumptively procedural. See supra, at 8.
It does not merely regulate the timing of arbitration. Nor does it
send the parties to non-judicial forms of dispute resolution.

															     More importantly, all
of the cases cited by the majority as examples of procedural
provisions involve commercial contracts between two private
parties. See ante, at 9. None of them—not a single
one—involves an agreement between sovereigns or an agreement
to which the person seeking to compel arbitration is not even a
party. The Treaty, of course, is both of those things.

															     The majority suggests
that I am applying “a different kind of analysis” from
that governing private commercial contracts, just because what is
at issue is a treaty. Ante, at 15. That is not so: The key point,
which the majority never addresses, is that there is no completed
agreement whatsoever between Argentina and BG Group. An agreement
must be formed, and whether that has happened is—as it is in
the private commercial contract context—an issue for a court
to decide. See supra, at 12–13.

															     The distinction between
questions concerning consent to arbitrate and mere procedural
requirements under an existing arbitration agreement can at times
seem elusive. Even the most mundane procedural requirement can be
recast as a condition on consent as a matter of technical logic.
But it should be clear by now that the Treaty’s local
litigation requirement is not a mere formality—not in Buenos
Aires, not in London. And while it is true that “parties
often submit important matters to arbitration,” ante, at 11,
our precedents presume that parties do not submit to arbitration
the most important matter of all: whether they are subject to an
agreement to arbitrate in the first place.

															     Nor has the majority
pointed to evidence that would rebut this presumption by showing
that Argentina “ ‘clearly and
unmistakably’ ” intended to have an arbitrator
en-force the litigation requirement. Howsam, supra, at 83 (quoting
AT&T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications Workers, 475
U. S. 643, 649 (1986) ). As the majority notes, ante, at 14,
the Treaty incorporates certain arbitration rules that, in turn,
authorize arbitrators to determine their own jurisdiction over a
dispute. See Art. 8(3). But those rules do not operate until a
dispute is properly before an arbitral tribunal, and of course the
whole question in this case is whether the dispute between BG Group
and Argentina was before the arbitrators, given BG Group’s
failure to comply with the 18-month local litigation requirement.
As a leading treatise has explained, “[i]f the parties have
not validly agreed to any arbitration agreement at all, then they
also have necessarily not agreed to institutional arbitration
rules.” 1 Born 870. “In these circumstances, provisions
in institutional rules cannot confer any [such] authority upon an
arbitral tribunal.” Ibid.

															     I also see no reason to
think that arbitrators enjoy comparative expertise in construing
the local litigation requirement. Ante, at 14. It would be one
thing if that provision involved the application of the
arbitrators’ own rules, cf. Howsam, supra, at 85, or if it
were “intertwined” with the merits of the underlying
dispute, John Wiley & Sons, 376 U. S., at 557. Neither is
true of the litigation requirement. A court can assess compliance
with the requirement at least as well as an arbitrator can. Given
the structure of Article 8 and the important interests that the
litigation requirement protects, it seems clear that the United
Kingdom and Argentina thought the same.[2]

															III

															     Although the Court of
Appeals got there by a slightly different route, it correctly
concluded that a court must decide questions concerning the
interpretation and application of the local litigation requirement
de novo. 665 F. 3d 1363, 1371–1373 (CADC 2012). At
the same time, however, the court seems to have simply taken it for
granted that, because BG Group did not submit its dispute to the
local courts, the arbitral award in BG Group’s favor was
invalid. Indeed, the court addressed the issue in a perfunctory
paragraph at the end of its opinion and saw
“ ‘only one possible outcome’ ”:
“that BG Group was required to commence a lawsuit in
Argentina’s courts and wait eighteen months before filing for
arbitration.” Id.,at 1373 (quoting Stolt-Nielsen S. A.
v. AnimalFeeds Int’l Corp., 559 U. S. 662, 677 (2010)
).

															     That conclusion is not
obvious. A leading treatise has indicated that “[i]t is a
necessary implication from [a uni-lateral] offer that the offeror,
in addition, makes a sub-sidiary offer by which he or she promises
to accept a tender of performance.” 1 Lord §5:14, at
1005. On this understanding, an offeree’s failure to comply
with an essential condition of the unilateral offer “will not
bar an action, if failure to comply with the condition is due to
the offeror’s own fault.” Id., at 1005–1006.

															     It would be open to BG
Group to argue before the Court of Appeals that this principle was
incorporated into Article 8(2)(a) as an implicit aspect of
Argentina’s unilateral offer to arbitrate. Such an argument
would find some support in the background principle of customary
international law that a foreign individual injured by a host
country must ordinarily exhaust local remedies—unless doing
so would be “futile.” See Dugan 347–357. In any
event, the issue would be analyzed as one of contract formation,
and therefore would be for the court to decide. I would accordingly
vacate the decision of the Court of Appeals and remand the case for
such an inquiry.

															     I respectfully
dissent.

Notes
1
 To be clear, the only
question is whether BG Group formed an agreement with Argentina. To
say that BG Group never formed such an agreement is not to call
into question the validity of its various commercial agreements
with Argentina.
2
  contends that
“Argentina’s conduct confirms that the local litigation
requirement is not a condition on consent, for rather than
objecting to arbitration on the ground that there was no binding
arbitration agreement to begin with, Argentina actively
participated in the constitution of the arbitral panel and in the
proceedings that followed.” at 4 (opinion concurring in
part). But as the arbitral tribunal itself recognized, Argentina
object to the tribunal’s jurisdiction to hear the dispute.
App. to Pet. for Cert. 99a, 134a, 143a, 161a–163a. And we
have held that “merely arguing the arbitrability issue to an
arbitrator”—say, by “filing with the arbitrators
a written memorandum objecting to the arbitrators’
jurisdiction”—“does not indicate a clear
willingness to arbitrate that issue, a willingness to be
effectively bound by the arbitrator’s decision on that
point.” v. , . The concurrence contends that Argentina
“apparently” argued its jurisdictional objection in
terms of procedure rather than consent, at 4, n., but the one piece
of evidence cited—a negative inference from the
characterization of Argentina’s argument on a subsidiary
issue—hardly suffices to distinguish .


