::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-026
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 1 (2014)
::decision_name::  Lozano v. Montoya Alvarez
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–820

															_________________

															MANUEL JOSE LOZANO, PETITIONER v. DIANALUCIA
MONTOYA ALVAREZ

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[March 5, 2014]

															

															     Justice Alito, with
whom Justice Breyer and Jus-tice Sotomayor join, concurring.

															     I concur fully in the
opinion of the Court. I write separately to explain why courts have
equitable discretion under the Hague Convention to order a
child’s return even after the child has become settled, and
how that discretion prevents abuses that petitioner claims will
follow from holding that Article 12’s 1-year period may not
be equitably tolled.

															     The Convention is
designed to protect the interests of children and their parents.
Much of the Convention can be understood as an attempt to balance
the various interests of children and non-abducting parents when a
par-ent abducts a child from the child’s country of habitual
residence.

															     When a child has been
absent from the country of habitual residence for less than a year,
the Convention conclusively presumes that the child’s nascent
attachment to the new country is outweighed by the non-abducting
parent’s interest in prompt return and the child’s own
interest in returning to the country from which he or she was
removed just a few months previously. This is why Article 12
requires return “forthwith” if the petition for
returnis brought within a year of abduction, unless one of the
narrow exceptions set forth in Article 13 or 20 applies. Hague
Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction
(Hague Convention or Convention), Oct. 25, 1980, T. I. A. S. No.
11670, S. Treaty Doc. No. 99–11 (Treaty Doc.), p. 9. But, as
the Convention recognizes, at some point the child will become
accustomed to the new environment, making Article 12’s
conclusive presumption inappropriate. Thus, if the petition for
return is brought after a year has elapsed, the court must
determine whether the child has become “settled” in the
new country; and if this has occurred, the court need not order
return. Ibid. As the majority recognizes, this provision of the
Convention “opens the door to consideration of
. . . the child’s interest in settlement.”
Ante, at 13.

															     But opening the door to
consideration of the child’s attachment to the new country
does not mean closing the door to evaluating all other interests of
the child andthe non-abducting parent. The fact that, after one
year,a child’s need for stability requires a court to take
into account the child’s attachment to the new country does
not mean that such attachment becomes the only factor worth
considering when evaluating a petition for return.

															     Nothing in Article 12
prohibits courts from taking other factors into account. To the
contrary, the Convention explicitly permits them to do so. Article
18 provides that “[t]he provisions of this Chapter [including
Article 12] do not limit the power of a judicial or administrative
author-ity to order the return of the child at any time.”
Hague Convention, Treaty Doc., at 11. A court thus has power to
order the child’s return in the exercise of its sound
discretion even where Article 12’s obligation to order such
return no longer applies.

															     This provision makes
eminent sense. Even after a year has elapsed and the child has
become settled in the new environment, a variety of factors may
outweigh the child’s interest in remaining in the new
country, such as the child’s interest in returning to his or
her original country of residence (with which he or she may still
have close ties, despite having become settled in the new country);
the child’s need for contact with the non-abducting parent,
who was exercising custody when the abduction occurred; the
non-abducting parent’s interest in exercising the cus-tody to
which he or she is legally entitled; the need to discourage
inequitable conduct (such as concealment) by abducting parents; and
the need to deter international abductions generally.

															     Article 12 places no
limit on Article 18’s grant of discretionary power to order
return. Article 18 expressly states as much. See ibid. (Article 12
“do[es] not limit the power of a judicial or administrative
authority to order the return of the child”). Even without
Article 18’s express language, it would be clear that Article
12 merely tells a court when it must order return, without telling
it when it may do so. Article 12 states that, after the 1-year
period has elapsed, a court “shall . . . order the
return of the child, unless it is demonstrated that the child is
now settled in its new environment.” Id., at 9. The final
clause indicates when the obligation imposed earlier in the
sentence terminates; it does not substitute for that obligation a
prohibition on ordering return. When a mother tells her child,
“Come straight home from school, unless one of your friends
invites you to a movie,” the mother has not prohibited her
child from coming home immediately after school even if a friend
proposes a film. Cf. Department of Commerce v. United States House
of Representatives, 525 U. S. 316, 339 (1999) (explaining that
the meaning of a similar sentence structure in 13
U. S. C. §195 “depends primarily on the
broader context in which that structure appears”). Thus,
nothing in Article 12 calls into question the discretionary power
of courts to order return after the 1-year period has expired and
the child has become settled.

															     Reading the Convention
to impose a prohibition on return would be highly anomalous, given
that the “Convention is based on the principle that the best
interests of the child are well served when decisions regarding
custody rights are made in the country of habitual
residence.” Abbott v. Abbott, 560 U. S. 1, 20 (2010) .
Such a prohibition would run counter to other provisions of the
Convention. For instance, Article 13(b) gives a court discretion to
return or decline to return a child who has not become settled if
“there is a grave risk that . . . return would
expose the child to physical or psychological harm or otherwise
place the child in an intolerable situation.” Hague
Convention, Treaty Doc., at 10. If a court has discretion to order
return even where such return poses “a grave risk” of
harm or threatens to place the child in an “intolerable
situation,” surely it has discretion to order return when
faced with the lesser risk attendant on removing a child from the
child’s present environment (especially given that the child
will generally be returning to a known environment: her country of
habitual residence).

															     The State Department
has adopted the view that the Convention empowers a court, in its
equitable discretion, to return a child who has become settled. In
the analysis that it provided to the Senate in connection with the
ratification process, the Department made clear that, even when a
year has elapsed and the child has become settled, a court may
still consider such factors as “evidence . . .
concerning the child’s contacts with and ties to his or her
State of habitual residence,” “[t]he reason for the
passage of time,” and any concealment by the abducting parent
in determining whether to order return. Hague International Child
Abduction Convention; Text and Legal Analysis (State Legal
Analysis), 51 Fed. Reg. 10494, 10509 (1986). The Department
continues to endorse this view today. See Brief for United States
as Amicus Curiae 19. As this Court has previously explained (in the
context of the Convention, in fact), the State Department’s
interpretation of treaties “ ‘is entitled to great
weight.’ ” Abbott, supra, at 15 (quoting Sumitomo
Shoji America, Inc. v. Avagliano, 457 U. S. 176, 185 (1982)
).

															     So, too, is the
interpretation of the courts of our sister signatories. See Abbott,
supra, at 16. The United Kingdom’s House of Lords (at the
time that nation’s highest court) has held that “a
settled child might nevertheless be returned” by a court in
the exercise of its discretion—a conclusion driven in part by
acknowledgment of the in-equity of rewarding concealment.
In re M, [2008] 1 A. C. 1288, 1304, ¶31 (Eng. 2007)
(opinion of Baroness Hale of Richmond). Likewise, the Supreme Court
of Ireland has concluded that courts have equitable discretion to
order return of a child who has become settled. See P. v. B. (No.
2), [1999] 4 I. R. 185. I am unaware of any high courts of states
signatory that have concluded to the contrary.

															     Given the foregoing, it
is perhaps unsurprising that the Courts of Appeals to have
considered the question have found that a court possesses equitable
discretion to order return of a child despite the child’s
having become settled in the new country. See Yaman v. Yaman, 730
F. 3d 1, 21 (CA1 2013); Blondin v. Dubois, 238 F. 3d 153,
164 (CA2 2001). And other Courts of Appeals have found more
generally that none of the Convention’s exceptions prohibit
return. See, e.g., Asvesta v. Petroutsas, 580 F. 3d 1000, 1004
(CA9 2009); Miller v. Miller, 240 F. 3d 392, 402 (CA4
2001).

															     Equitable discretion to
order return of a settled child is particularly important in light
of the fact that the Convention, as the Court correctly holds
today, does not provide for equitable tolling of Article 12’s
1-year period. Peti-tioner predicts dire consequences from the
Court’s holding. He argues that, as a result of our decision,
the United States will become an abduction haven, with parents
concealing their children here until Article 12’s 1-year
period has run and then claiming their children have become settled
and hence ineligible for return. But such inequitable conduct would
weigh heavily in favor of returning a child even if she has become
settled. See, e.g., State Legal Analysis, 51 Fed. Reg. 10509
(“If the alleged wrongdoer concealed the child’s
whereabouts from the custodian necessitating a long search for the
child and thereby delayed the commencement of a return proceeding
by the applicant, it is highly questionable whether the respondent
should be permitted to benefit from such conduct absent strong
countervailing considerations”); In re M, supra, at
1310, ¶31 (recognizing that a court may take concealment into
account in considering whether to return a settled child). Given
the courts’ discretion to order return in response to
concealment, I do not believe the Court’s decision today
risks incentivizing parents to flee with their children to this
country and conceal them.

															     Equitable discretion is
also a far better tool than equitable tolling with which to address
the dangers of concealment. Equitable tolling would require return
every time the abducting parent conceals the child and thereby
prevents the non-abducting parent from filing a return petition
within a year, regardless of how settled in the new country the
child has become. Thus, on petitioner’s view, a court would
be bound to return a 14-year-old child who was brought to the
United States shortly after birth and had been concealed here ever
since. By contrast, when a court exercises its equitable
discretion, it may consider other factors in addition to
concealment. While concealment is a significant factor and should
weigh heavily in a court’s analysis, in appropriate cases it
can be overcome by circumstances such as the extended length of the
child’s residence in this country, any strong ties the child
has formed here, and the child’s attenuated connections to
his or her former country.

															     In short, I believe the
power of a court, in the exercise of its sound discretion, to
return even a settled child prevents the inapplicability of
equitable tolling to Article 12’s 1-year limit from
encouraging parents to flee to the United States and conceal their
children here. In light of this understanding, I have no difficulty
joining the opinion of the Court.

													
