::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-044
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 650 (2014)
::decision_name::  Tolan v. Cotton
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															ROBERT R. TOLAN v. JEFFREY WAYNE COTTON

															on petition for writ of certiorari to the
united states court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															No. 13–551. Decided May 5,
2014

															

															     Justice Alito, with
whom Justice Scalia joins, concurring in the judgment.

															     The Court takes two
actions. It grants the petition for a writ of certiorari, and it
summarily vacates the judgment of the Court of Appeals.

															     The granting of a
petition for plenary review is not a decision from which Members of
this Court have customarily registered dissents, and I do not do so
here. I note, however, that the granting of review in this case
sets a precedent that, if followed in other cases, will very
substantially alter the Court’s practice. See, e.g., this
Court’s Rule 10 (“A petition for a writ of certiorari
is rarely granted when the asserted error consists of erroneous
factual findings or the misapplication of a properly stated rule of
law”); S. Shapiro, K. Geller, T. Bishop, E. Hartnett, &
D. Himmelfarb, Supreme Court Practice §5.12(c)(3), p. 352
(10th ed. 2013) (“[E]rror correction . . . is
outside the mainstream of the Court’s functions and
. . . not among the ‘compelling reasons’
. . . that govern the grant of certiorari”).

															     In my experience, a
substantial percentage of the civil appeals heard each year by the
courts of appeals present the question whether the evidence in the
summary judgment record is just enough or not quite enough to
support a grant of summary judgment. The present case falls into
that very large category. There is no confusion in the courts of
appeals about the standard to be applied in ruling on a summary
judgment motion, and the Court of Appeals invoked the correct
standard here. See 713 F. 3d 299, 304 (CA5 2013). Thus, the
only issue is whether the relevant evidence, viewed in the light
most favorable to the nonmoving party, is sufficient to support a
judgment for that party. In the courts of appeals, cases presenting
this question are utterly routine. There is no question that this
case is important for the parties, but the same is true for a great
many other cases that fall into the same category.

															     On the merits of the
case, while I do not necessarily agree in all respects with the
Court’s characterization of the evidence, I agree that there
are genuine issues of material fact and that this is a case in
which summary judgment should not have been granted.

															     I therefore concur in
the judgment.

													
