::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-028
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 65 (2014)
::decision_name::  Rosemond v. United States
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–895

															_________________

															JUSTUS C. ROSEMOND, PETITIONER v.UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the tenth circuit

															[March 5, 2014]

															

															     Justice Alito, with
whom Justice Thomas joins, con-curring in part and dissenting in
part.

															     I largely agree with
the analysis in the first 12 pages of the opinion of the Court, but
I strongly disagree withthe discussion that comes after that point.
Specifically, I reject the Court’s conclusion that a
conviction for aiding and abetting a violation of 18
U. S. C. §924(c) demands proof that the alleged
aider and abettor had what the Court terms “a realistic
opportunity” to refrain from engaging in the conduct at
issue.[1] Ante, at 13. This
rule represents an important and, as far as I am aware,
unprecedented alteration of the law of aiding and abetting and of
the law of intentionality generally.

															     To explain my
disagreement with the Court’s analysis, I begin with our case
law on the mens rea required to establish aiding and abetting.
There is some tension in our cases on this point. Specifically,
some of our cases suggest that an aider and abettor must act
purposefully or with intent. Prominent among these cases is Nye
& Nissen v. United States, 336 U. S. 613 (1949) , which the
Court quotes. See ante, at 16, n. 10. In that case, the Court,
quoting Judge Learned Hand’s formulation in United States v.
Peoni, 100 F. 2d 401 (CA2 1938), said that an aider and
abettor must “ ‘participate in [the crime] as in
something that he wishes to bring about, [and] seek by his action
to make it succeed.’ ” 336 U. S., at 619.

															     On the other hand,
there are cases to which the Court also refers, ante, at 12, that
appear to hold that the requisite mens rea is simply knowledge. See
Pereira v. United States, 347 U. S. 1, 12 (1954) ; Bozza v. United
States, 330 U. S. 160 –165 (1947). The Court refers
interchangeably to both of these tests and thus leaves our case law
in the same, somewhat conflicted state that previously ex-isted.
But because the difference between acting purposefully (when that
concept is properly understood) and acting knowingly is slight,
this is not a matter of great concern.

															     Beginning on page 13,
however, the Court veers off in a new and, to my mind, most
unfortunate direction. The Court imagines the following
situation:

															“[A]n accomplice agrees to participate in
a drug sale on the express condition that no one brings a gun to
the place of exchange. But just as the parties are making the
trade, the accomplice notices that one of his confederates has a
(poorly) concealed firearm in his jacket.” Ante, at 15.

															If the accomplice, despite spotting the gun,
continues to assist in the completion of the drug sale, has the
accomplice aided and abetted the commission of a violation of
§924(c)?

															     The Court’s
answer is “it depends.” Walking away, the Court
observes, “might increase the risk of gun violence—to
the accomplice himself, other participants, or bystanders; and
conversely, finishing the sale might be the best or only way to
avoid the danger.” Ante, at 16. Moreover—and this is
where the seriously misguided step occurs—the Court says that
if the risk of walking away exceeds (by some unspecified degree)
the risk created by completing the sale and if the alleged aider
and abettor chooses to continue for that reason, the alleged aider
and abettor lacks the mens rea required for conviction. See ante,
at 16, n. 10.

															     What the Court has done
is to convert what has up to now been an affirmative defense into a
part of the required mens rea, and this step has very important
conceptual and practical consequences. It fundamentally alters the
prior understanding of mental states that form the foundation of
substantive criminal law, and it places a strange and difficult
burden on the prosecution.

															     That the Court has
taken a radical step can be seen by comparing what the Court now
holds with the traditional defense of necessity. That defense
excuses a violation of law if “the harm which will result
from compliance with the law is greater than that which will result
from violation of it.” 2 W. LaFave, Substantive Criminal Law
§10.1, p. 116 (2003) (hereinafter LaFave).[2] This is almost exactly the balance-of-risks
calculus adopted by the Court, but under the traditional approach
necessity is an affirmative defense. See, e.g., United States v.
Bailey, 444 U. S. 394, 416 (1980) . Necessity and the closely
related defense of duress are affirmative defenses because they
almost invariably do not negate the mens rea necessary to incur
criminal liability. See 2 LaFave §10.1(a), at 118 (“The
rationale of the necessity defense is not that a person, when faced
with the pressure of circumstances of nature, lacks the mental
element which the crime in question requires”); id.,
§9.7(a), at 73 (same for duress).

															     This Court has made
clear that, except in narrow circumstances, necessity and duress do
not negate the mens rea required for conviction. In Dixon v. United
States, 548 U. S. 1 (2006) , the defendant was charged with
“know-ingly” and “willfully” committing
certain criminal acts, but she claimed that she committed the acts
only because her boyfriend had threatened to kill her or hurt her
daughters if she did not do so. Id., at 4. She contended that she
could not “have formed the necessary mens rea for these
crimes because she did not freely choose to commit the acts in
question,” but we rejected that argument, explaining that
“[t]he duress defense, like the defense of necessity
. . . , may excuse conduct that would otherwise be
punishable, but the existence of duress normally does not
controvert any of the elements of the offense itself.” Id.,
at 6. In a footnote, we suggested one situation in which the
prosecution might be required to disprove duress, namely, where a
particular crime demands proof that the accused acted
“maliciously,” which is to say “without
justification or excuse.” Ibid., n. 4 (internal
quotation marks omitted).

															     The Court justifies its
holding on the ground that the mens rea standard articulated in Nye
& Nissen also falls within an exception to the general rule
that proof of necessity or duress does not negate mens rea. Ante,
at 16, n. 10. But the Court, having refrained on pages 11–12
of its opinion from deciding whether aiding and abetting requires
purposeful, as opposed to knowing, conduct, quickly and without
explanation jettisons the “knowing” standard and
concludes that purposeful conduct is needed. This is a critical
move because if it is enough for an alleged aider and abettor
simply to know that his confederate is carrying a gun, then the
alleged aider and abettor in the Court’s hypothetical case
(who spots the gun on the confederate’s person)
unquestionably had the mens rea needed for conviction.

															     But even accepting the
Nye & Nissen standard as the exclusive means of proving the
required mens rea, the Court’s analysis is still quite wrong.
Under the Nye & Nissen standard, the Government must simply
prove that a defendant had as his conscious object that the
hypothetical drug sale (which, as the defendant knew, included the
carrying of a gun by one of the participants) go forward to
completion. See Nye & Nissen, 336 U. S., at 619. Such
intent is perfectly consistent with facts supporting a necessity or
duress defense. A person can certainly intend the success of a
criminal enterprise that he aids on the belief that doing so will
give rise to a lesser evil than his refusal to participate would
bring about.

															     The Court confuses two
fundamentally distinct concepts: intent and motive. It seems to
assume that, if a defendant’s motive in aiding a criminal
venture is to avoid some greater evil, he does not have the intent
that the venture succeed. But the intent to undertake some act is
of course perfectly consistent with the motive of avoiding adverse
consequences which would otherwise occur. We can all testify to
this from our daily experience. People wake up, go to work, balance
their checkbooks, shop for groceries—and yes, commit
crimes—because they believe something bad will happen if they
do not do these things, not because the deepest desire of their
heart is to do them. A person may only go to work in the morning to
keep his or her family from destitution; that does not mean he or
she does not intend to put in a full day’s work. In the same
way, the fact that a defendant carries out a crime because he feels
he must do so on pain of terrible consequences does not mean he
does not intend to carry out the crime. When Jean Valjean stole a
loaf of bread to feed his starving family, he certainly intended to
commit theft; the fact that, had he been living in America today,
he may have pleaded necessity as a defense does not change that
fact. See V. Hugo, Les Misérables 54 (Fall River Press ed.
2012).

															     Common-law commentators
recognized this elementary distinction between intent and motive.
As Sir James FitzJames Stephen explains, if “A puts a loaded
pistol to B’s temple and shoots B through the head
deliberately, . . . . [i]t is obvious that in every
such case the intention of A must be to kill B.” 2 A History
of the Criminal Law of England 110–111 (1883). This fact
“throws no light whatever on A’s motives for killing B.
They may have been infinitely various. . . . The
motive may have been a desire for revenge, or a desire for plunder,
or a wish on A’s part to defend himself against an attack by
B, . . . or to put a man already mortally wounded out of
his agony.” Id., at 111. “In all these cases the
intention is the same, but the motives are different, and in all
the intention may remain unchanged from first to last whilst the
motives may vary from moment to moment.” Ibid.

															     Unsurprisingly, our
cases have recognized that a lawful motive (such as necessity,
duress, or self-defense) is consistent with the mens rea necessary
to satisfy a requirement of intent. In Martin v. Ohio, 480
U. S. 228 (1987) , we considered whether due process permitted
the State of Ohio to place the burden of proving self-defense on a
defendant charged with aggravated murder. Under the Ohio statute,
aggravated murder consisted of “purposely, and with prior
calculation and design, caus[ing] the death of another.” Id.,
at 230 (alteration in original; internal quotation marks omitted).
Martin pleaded self-defense, which required her to prove that (1)
she was “not at fault in creating the situation giving rise
to the argument” with the victim, (2) she “had an
honest belief that she was in imminent danger of death or great
bodily harm, and that her only means of escape from such danger was
in the use of . . . force,” and (3) she “did
not violate any duty to retreat or avoid danger.” Ibid.
Martin argued that due process did not permit the State to impose
the burden of proving self-defense on her, because proving
self-defense would necessarily negate the elements of aggravated
murder, which the State was required to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt. We disagreed, explaining that the elements which the State
was required to prove to convict Martin were not the same as the
elements which Martin was required to prove to prevail on her
self-defense theory. Id., at 233. By so holding, we recognized that
a defendant’s purpose to kill another is not incompatible
with that defendant’s “honest belief that she was in
imminent danger of death or great bodily harm” and that her
use of force was necessary to preserve her life. Id., at 230. In
other words, the fact that a defendant intends to kill another only
to avert mortal peril does not mean that the defendant does not
intend to kill.

															     That principle plays
out in a wide variety of cases. United States v. Leal-Cruz, 431
F. 3d 667 (CA9 2005), provides a good example. There, the
Ninth Circuit hadto decide whether a defendant could
constitutionally be required to bear the burden of proving duress
as a defense to conviction under 8 U. S. C. §1326
for attempted illegal reentry into the United States. Leal-Cruz
pleaded duress, testifying that he entered the United States only
to escape the deadly threat posed by abusive Mexican police
officers who were chasing him. 431 F. 3d, at 669. The Ninth
Circuit had earlier held that the mens rea required for conviction
for attempted illegal reentry was “purpose, i.e., conscious
desire, to reenter the United States.” Id., at 671. The Court
of Appeals nevertheless found that the Constitution permitted
imposition of the burden of proving duress on Leal-Cruz, because
proving duress did not require him to prove that he had not
purposely entered the United States. As the Ninth Circuit
explained, duress and the mens rea requirement of intent did not
overlap because Leal-Cruz “had the ‘conscious
desire’ to enter the country, even if the act of crossing the
border was done to escape harm.” Id., at 673.

															     Thus, it seems
inarguable to me that the existence of the purpose or intent to
carry out a crime is perfectly compatible with facts giving rise to
a necessity or duress defense. Once that proposition is
established, the Court’s error is readily apparent. The Court
requires the Government to prove that a defendant in
Rosemond’s situation could have walked away without risking
harm greater than he would cause by continuing with the
crime—circumstances that traditionally would support a
necessity or duress defense. It imposes this requirement on the
Government despite the fact that such dangerous circumstances
simply do not bear on whether the defendant intends the
§924(c) offense to succeed, as (on the Court’s reading)
is required for aiding and abetting liability.

															     The usual rule that a
defendant bears the burden of proving affirmative defenses is
justified by a compelling, commonsense intuition: “[W]here
the facts with regard to an issue lie peculiarly in the knowledge
of a party, that party is best situated to bear the burden of
proof.” Smith v. United States, 568 U. S. ___, ___ (2013)
(slip op., at 6–7) (quoting Dixon, 548 U. S., at 9;
alteration in originaland internal quotation marks omitted). By
abandoning that rule in cases involving aiding and abetting of
§924(c) offenses, the Court creates a perverse arrangement
whereby the prosecution must prove something that is peculiarly
within the knowledge of the defendant. Imagine that A aids B in
committing a §924(c) offense and claims that he only learned
of the gun once the crime had begun. If A had the burden of proof,
he might testify that B was a hothead who had previously shot
others who had crossed him. But under the Court’s rule, the
prosecution, in order to show the intent needed to convict A as an
aider and abettor, presumably has the burden of proving that B was
not such a person and that A did not believe him to be. How is the
prosecution to do this? By offering testimony by B’s friends
and associates regarding his peaceful and easygoing nature? By
introducing entries from A’s diary in which he reflects on
the sense of safety he feels when carrying out criminal enterprises
in B’s company? Furthermore, even if B were a hothead and A
knew him to be such, A would presumably only be entitled to escape
liability if he continued with the offense because of his fear of
B’s reaction if he walked away. Under the Court’s rule,
it is up to the Government to prove that A’s continued
participation was not on account of his fear of B—but how? By
introducing footage of a convenient security camera demonstrating
that A’s eyes were not wide with fear, nor his breathing
rapid?

															     The Court’s rule
breaks with the common-law tradition and our case law. It also
makes no sense. I respectfully dissent from that portion of the
Court’s opinion which places on the Government the burden of
proving that the alleged aider and abettor of a §924(c)
offense had what the Court terms “a realistic
opportunity” to refrain from engaging in the conduct at
issue.

Notes
1
 I am also concerned that
the Court’s use, without clarification, of the phrase
“advance knowledge” will lead readers astray. at 1.
Viewed by itself, the phrase most naturally means knowledge
acquired in advance of the commission of the drug trafficking
offense, but thisis not what the Court means. Rather,
“advance knowledge,” as used by the Court, may include
knowledge acquired while the drug trafficking offense is in
progress. Specifically, a defendant has such knowledge, the Court
says, if he or she first learns of the gun while the drug offense
is in progress and at that time “realistically could have
opted out of the crime.” , at 15.
2
 Traditionally, the
defense of necessity was employed when natural forces created the
situation justifying non-compliance; when the situation was the
product of human action, duress was the appropriate defense. 2
LaFave §10.1(a), at 116. But “[m]odern cases have tended
to blur the distinction between” these two defenses, v., ,
and “it would doubtless be possible to treat [duress] as a
branch of the law of necessity,” 2 LaFave §10.1(b), at
121.


