::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-042
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 565 (2014)
::decision_name::  Town of Greece v. Galloway
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–696

															_________________

															TOWN OF GREECE, NEW YORK, PETITIONER v.SUSAN
GALLOWAY et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[May 5, 2014]

															

															     Justice Alito, with
whom Justice Scalia joins,concurring.

															     I write separately to
respond to the principal dissent, which really consists of two very
different but intertwined opinions. One is quite narrow; the other
is sweeping. I will address both.

															I

															     First, however, since
the principal dissent accuses the Court of being blind to the facts
of this case, post, at 20 (opinion of Kagan, J.), I recount
facts that I find particularly salient.

															     The town of Greece is a
municipality in upstate New York that borders the city of
Rochester. The town decided to emulate a practice long established
in Congress and state legislatures by having a brief prayer before
sessions of the town board. The task of lining up clergy members
willing to provide such a prayer was given to the town’s
office of constituent services. 732 F. Supp. 2d 195,
197–198 (WDNY 2010). For the first four years of the
practice, a clerical employee in the office would randomly call
religious organizations listed in the Greece “Community
Guide,” a local directory published by the Greece Chamber of
Commerce, until she was able to find somebody willing to give the
invocation. Id., at 198. This employee eventu-ally began keeping a
list of individuals who had agreed to give the invocation, and when
a second clerical employee took over the task of finding
prayer-givers, the first employee gave that list to the second.
Id., at 198, 199. The second employee then randomly called
organizations on that list—and possibly others in the
Community Guide—until she found someone who agreed to provide
the prayer. Id., at 199.

															     Apparently, all the
houses of worship listed in the local Community Guide were
Christian churches. Id., at 198–200, 203. That is
unsurprising given the small number of non-Christians in the area.
Although statistics for the town of Greece alone do not seem to be
available, statistics have been compiled for Monroe County, which
includes both the town of Greece and the city of Rochester.
According to these statistics, of the county residents who have a
religious affiliation, about 3% are Jewish, and for other
non-Christian faiths, the percentages are smaller.[1] There are no synagogues within the borders
of the town of Greece, id., at 203, but there are several not far
away across the Rochester border. Presumably, Jewish residents of
the town worship at one or more of those synagogues, but because
these synagogues fall outside the town’s borders, they were
not listed in the town’s local directory, and the responsible
town employee did not include them on her list. Ibid. Nor did she
include any other non-Christian house of worship. Id., at
198–200.[2]

															     As a result of this
procedure, for some time all the prayers at the beginning of town
board meetings were offered by Christian clergy, and many of these
prayers were distinctively Christian. But respondents do not claim
that the list was attributable to religious bias or favoritism, and
the Court of Appeals acknowledged that the town had “no
religious animus.” 681 F. 3d 20, 32 (CA2 2012).

															     For some time, the
town’s practice does not appear to have elicited any
criticism, but when complaints were received, the town made it
clear that it would permit any interested residents, including
nonbelievers, to provide an invocation, and the town has never
refused a request to offer an invocation. Id., at 23, 25; 732 F.
Supp. 2d, at 197. The most recent list in the record of persons
available to provide an invocation includes representatives of many
non-Christian faiths. App. in No. 10–3635 (CA2), pp.
A1053–A1055 (hereinafter CA2 App.).

															     Meetings of the Greece
Town Board appear to have been similar to most other town council
meetings across the country. The prayer took place at the beginning
of the meetings. The board then conducted what might be termed the
“legislative” portion of its agenda, during which
residents were permitted to address the board. After this portion
of the meeting, a separate stage of the meetings was devoted to
such matters as formal requests for variances. See Brief for
Respondents 5–6; CA2 App. A929–A930; e.g., CA2 App.
A1058, A1060.

															     No prayer occurred
before this second part of the proceedings, and therefore I do not
understand this case to involve the constitutionality of a prayer
prior to what may be characterized as an adjudicatory proceeding.
The prayer preceded only the portion of the town board meeting that
I view as essentially legislative. While it is true that the
matters considered by the board during this initial part of the
meeting might involve very specific questions, such as the
installation of a traffic light or stop sign at a particular
intersection, that does not transform the nature of this part of
the meeting.

															II

															     I turn now to the
narrow aspect of the principal dissent, and what we find here is
that the principal dissent’s objection, in the end, is really
quite niggling. According to the principal dissent, the town could
have avoided any constitutional problem in either of two ways.

															A

															     First, the principal
dissent writes, “[i]f the Town Board had let its chaplains
know that they should speak in nonsectarian terms, common to
diverse religious groups, then no one would have valid grounds for
complaint.” Post, at 18–19. “Priests and
ministers, rabbis and imams,” the principal dissent
continues, “give such invocations all the time” without
any great difficulty. Post, at 19.

															     Both Houses of Congress
now advise guest chaplains that they should keep in mind that they
are addressing members from a variety of faith traditions, and as a
matter of policy, this advice has much to recommend it. But any
argument that nonsectarian prayer is constitutionally required runs
headlong into a long history of contrary congressional practice.
From the beginning, as the Court notes, many Christian prayers were
offered in the House and Senate, see ante, at 7, and when rabbis
and other non-Christian clergy have served as guest chaplains,
their prayers have often been couched in terms particular to their
faith traditions.[3]

															     Not only is there no
historical support for the proposition that only generic prayer is
allowed, but as our country has become more diverse, composing a
prayer that is acceptable to all members of the community who hold
religious beliefs has become harder and harder. It was one thing to
compose a prayer that is acceptable to both Christians and Jews; it
is much harder to compose a prayer that is also acceptable to
followers of Eastern religions that are now well represented in
this country. Many local clergy may find the project daunting, if
not impossible, and some may feel that they cannot in good faith
deliver such a vague prayer.

															     In addition, if a town
attempts to go beyond simply recommending that a guest chaplain
deliver a prayer that is broadly acceptable to all members of a
particular community (and the groups represented in different
communities will vary), the town will inevitably encounter
sensitive problems. Must a town screen and, if necessary, edit
prayers before they are given? If prescreening is not required,
must the town review prayers after they are delivered in order to
determine if they were sufficiently generic? And if a guest
chaplain crosses the line, what must the town do? Must the chaplain
be corrected on the spot? Must the town strike this chaplain (and
perhaps his or her house of worship) from the approved list?

															B

															     If a town wants to
avoid the problems associated with this first option, the principal
dissent argues, it has another choice: It may “invit[e]
clergy of many faiths.” Post, at 19. “When one month a
clergy member refers to Jesus, and the next to Allah or
Jehovah,” the principal dissent explains, “the
government does not identify itself with one religion or align
itself with that faith’s citizens, and the effect of even
sectarian prayer is transformed.” Ibid.

															     If, as the principal
dissent appears to concede, such a rotating system would obviate
any constitutional problems, then despite all its high rhetoric,
the principal dissent’s quarrel with the town of Greece
really boils down to this: The town’s clerical employees did
a bad job in compiling the list of potential guest chaplains. For
that is really the only difference between what the town did and
what the principal dissent is willing to accept. The Greece
clerical employee drew up her list using the town directory instead
of a directory covering the entire greater Rochester area. If the
task of putting together the list had been handled in a more
sophisticated way, the employee in charge would have realized that
the town’s Jewish residents attended synagogues on the
Rochester side of the border and would have added one or more
synagogues to the list. But the mistake was at worst careless, and
it was not done with a discriminatory intent. (I would view this
case very differently if the omission of these synagogues were
intentional.)

															     The informal, imprecise
way in which the town lined up guest chaplains is typical of the
way in which many things are done in small and medium-sized units
of local government. In such places, the members of the governing
body almost always have day jobs that occupy much of their time.
The town almost never has a legal office and instead relies for
legal advice on a local attorney whose practice is likely to center
on such things as land-use regulation, contracts, and torts. When a
municipality like the town of Greece seeks in good faith to emulate
the congressional practice on which our holding in Marsh v.
Chambers, 463 U. S. 783 (1983), was largely based, that
municipality should not be held to have violated the Constitution
sim-ply because its method of recruiting guest chaplains lacks the
demographic exactitude that might be regarded as optimal.

															     The effect of requiring
such exactitude would be to pressure towns to forswear altogether
the practice of having a prayer before meetings of the town
council. Many local officials, puzzled by our often puzzling
Establishment Clause jurisprudence and terrified of the legal fees
that may result from a lawsuit claiming a constitutional violation,
already think that the safest course is to ensure that local
government is a religion-free zone. Indeed, the Court of
Appeals’ opinion in this case advised towns that
constitutional difficulties “may well prompt municipalities
to pause and think carefully before adopting legislative
prayer.” 681 F. 3d, at 34. But if, as precedent and
historic practice make clear (and the principal dissent concedes),
prayer before a legislative session is not inherently inconsistent
with the First Amendment, then a unit of local government should
not be held to have violated the First Amendment simply because its
procedure for lining up guest chaplains does not comply in all
respects with what might be termed a “best practices”
standard.

															III

															     While the principal
dissent, in the end, would demand no more than a small modification
in the procedure that the town of Greece initially followed, much
of the rhetoric in that opinion sweeps more broadly. Indeed, the
logical thrust of many of its arguments is that prayer is never
permissible prior to meetings of local government legislative
bodies. At Greece Town Board meetings, the principal dissent
pointedly notes, ordinary citizens (and even children!) are often
present. Post, at 10–11. The guest chaplains stand in front
of the room facing the public. “[T]he setting is
intimate,” and ordinary citizens are permitted to speak and
to ask the board to address problems that have a direct effect on
their lives. Post, at 11. The meetings are “occasions for
ordinary citizens to engage with and petition their government,
often on highly individualized matters.” Post, at 9. Before a
session of this sort, the principal dissent argues, any prayer that
is not acceptable to all in attendance is out of bounds.

															     The features of Greece
meetings that the principal dissent highlights are by no means
unusual.[4] It is common for
residents to attend such meetings, either to speak on matters on
the agenda or to request that the town address other issues that
are important to them. Nor is there anything unusual about the
occasional attendance of students, and when a prayer is given at
the beginning of such a meeting, I expect that the chaplain
generally stands at the front of the room and faces the public. To
do otherwise would probably be seen by many as rude. Fi-nally,
although the principal dissent, post, at 13, attaches importance to
the fact that guest chaplains in the town of Greece often began
with the words “Let us pray,” that is also commonplace
and for many clergy, I suspect, almost reflexive.[5] In short, I see nothing out of the
ordinary about any of the features that the principal dissent
notes. Therefore, if prayer is not allowed at meetings with those
characteristics, local government legislative bodies, unlike their
national and state counterparts, cannot begin their meetings with a
prayer. I see no sound basis for drawing such a distinction.

															IV

															     The principal dissent
claims to accept the Court’s decision in Marsh v. Chambers,
which upheld the constitutionality of the Nebraska
Legislature’s practice of prayer at the beginning of
legislative sessions, but the principal dissent’s acceptance
of Marsh appears to be predicated on the view that the prayer at
issue in that case was little more than a formality to which the
legislators paid scant attention. The principal dissent describes
this scene: A session of the state legislature begins with or
without most members present; a strictly nonsectarian prayer is
recited while some legislators remain seated; and few members of
the public are exposed to the experience. Post, at 8–9. This
sort of perfunctory and hidden-away prayer, the principal dissent
implies, is all that Marsh and the First Amendment can
tolerate.

															     It is questionable
whether the principal dissent accurately describes the Nebraska
practice at issue in Marsh,[6]
but what is important is not so much what happened in Nebraska in
the years prior to Marsh, but what happened before congressional
sessions during the period leading up to the adoption of the First
Amendment. By that time, prayer before legislative sessions already
had an impressive pedigree, and it is important to recall that
history and the events that led to the adoption of the
practice.

															     The principal dissent
paints a picture of “morning in Nebraska” circa 1983,
see post, at 9, but it is more instructive to consider
“morning in Philadelphia,” September 1774. The First
Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia, and the need for the
13 colonies to unite was imperative. But “[m]any things set
colony apart from colony,” and prominent among these sources
of division was religion.[7]
“Purely as a practical matter,” however, the project of
bringing the colonies together required that these divisions be
overcome.[8]

															     Samuel Adams sought to
bridge these differences by prodding a fellow Massachusetts
delegate to move to open the session with a prayer.[9] As John Adams later recounted, this motion
was opposed on the ground that the dele-gates were “so
divided in religious sentiments, some Episcopalians, some Quakers,
some Anabaptists, somePresbyterians, and some Congregationalists,
that [they] could not join in the same act of
worship.”[10] In
response, Samuel Adams proclaimed that “he was no bigot, and
could hear a prayer from a gentleman of piety and virtue, who was
at the same time a friend to his country.”[11] Putting aside his personal
prejudices,[12] he moved to
invite a local Anglican minister, Jacob Duché, to lead the
first prayer.[13]

															     The following morning,
Duché appeared in full “pontifi-cals” and
delivered both the Anglican prayers for the day and an
extemporaneous prayer.[14]
For many of the delegates—members of religious groups that
had come to America to escape persecution in
Britain—listening to a distinctively Anglican prayer by a
minister of the Church of England represented an act of notable
ecumenism. But Duché’s prayer met with wide
approval—John Adams wrote that it “filled the bosom of
every man” in attendance[15]—and the practice was continued. This first
congressional prayer was emphatically Christian, and it was neither
an empty formality nor strictly nondenominational.[16] But one of its purposes, and presumably
one of itseffects, was not to divide, but to unite.

															     It is no wonder, then,
that the practice of beginning congressional sessions with a prayer
was continued after the Revolution ended and the new Constitution
was adopted. One of the first actions taken by the new Congress
when it convened in 1789 was to appoint chaplains for both Houses.
The first Senate chaplain, an Episcopa-lian, was appointed on April
25, 1789, and the first House chaplain, a Presbyterian, was
appointed on May 1.[17]
Three days later, Madison announced that he planned to introduce
proposed constitutional amendments to protect individual rights; on
June 8, 1789, those amendments were introduced; and on September
26, 1789, the amendments were approved to be sent to the States for
ratification.[18] In the
years since the adoption of the First Amendment, the practice of
prayer before sessions of the House and Senate has continued, and
opening prayers from a great variety of faith traditions have been
offered.      This Court has often noted that
actions taken by the First Congress are presumptively consistent
with the Bill of Rights, see, e.g., Harmelin v. Michigan, 501
U. S. 957, 980 (1991) , Carroll v. United States, 267
U. S. 132 –152 (1925), and this principle has special
force when it comes to the interpretation of the Establishment
Clause. This Court has always purported to base its Establishment
Clause decisions on the original meaning of that provision. Thus,
in Marsh, when the Court was called upon to decide whether prayer
prior to sessions of a state legislature was consistent with the
Establishment Clause, we relied heavily on the history of prayer
before sessions of Congress and held that a state legislature may
follow a similar practice. See 463 U. S., at
786–792.

															     There can be little
doubt that the decision in Marsh reflected the original
understanding of the First Amendment. It is virtually inconceivable
that the First Congress, having appointed chaplains whose
responsibilities prominently included the delivery of prayers at
the beginning of each daily session, thought that this practice was
inconsistent with the Establishment Clause. And since this practice
was well established and undoubtedly well known, it seems equally
clear that the state legislatures that ratified the First Amendment
had the same understanding. In the case before us, the Court of
Appeals appeared to base its decision on one of the Establishment
Clause “tests” set out in the opinions of this Court,
see 681 F. 3d, at 26, 30, but if there is any inconsistency
between any of those tests and the historic practice of legislative
prayer, the inconsistency calls into question the validity of the
test, not the historic practice.

															V

															     This brings me to my
final point. I am troubled by the message that some readers may
take from the principal dissent’s rhetoric and its highly
imaginative hypotheticals. For example, the principal dissent
conjures up the image of a litigant awaiting trial who is asked by
the presiding judge to rise for a Christian prayer, of an official
at a polling place who conveys the expectation that citizens
wishing to vote make the sign of the cross before casting their
ballots, and of an immigrant seeking naturalization who is asked to
bow her head and recite a Christianprayer. Although I do not
suggest that the implication is intentional, I am concerned that at
least some readers will take these hypotheticals as a warning that
this is where today’s decision leads—to a country in
which religious minorities are denied the equal benefits of
citizenship.

															     Nothing could be
further from the truth. All that the Court does today is to allow a
town to follow a practice that we have previously held is
permissible for Congress and state legislatures. In seeming to
suggest otherwise, the principal dissent goes far astray.

Notes
1
 See Assn. of
Statisticians of Am. Religious Bodies, C. Grammich et al.,
2010 U. S. Religion Census: Religious Congregations &
Membership Study 400–401 (2012).
2
 It appears that there is
one non-Christian house of worship, a Buddhist temple, within the
town’s borders, but it was not listed in the town directory.
732 F. Supp. 2d, at 203. Although located within the
town’s borders, the temple has a Rochester mailing address.
And while the respondents “each lived in the Town more than
thirty years, neither was personally familiar with any mosques,
synagogues, temples, or other non-Christian places of worship
within the Town.” ., at 197.
3
 For example, when a rabbi
first delivered a prayer at a session of the House of
Representatives in 1860, he appeared “in full rabbinic dress,
‘piously bedecked in a white tallit and a large velvet
skullcap,’ ” and his prayer “invoked several
uniquely Jewish themes and repeated the Biblical priestly blessing
in Hebrew.” See Brief for Nathan Lewin as 9.Many other rabbis
have given distinctively Jewish prayers, ., at 10, and n. 3,
and distinctively Islamic, Buddhist, and Hindu prayers have also
been delivered, see , at 10–11.
4
 See, ., prayer practice
of Saginaw City Council in Michigan, described in Letter from
Freedom from Religion Foundation to City Manager, Saginaw City
Council (Jan. 31, 2014), online at
http://media.mlive.com / saginawnews_impact  / other  / Saginaw % 20prayer%20at%20meetings%20letter.pdf
(all Internet materials as visited May 2, 2014, and available in
Clerk of Court’s case file); prayer practice of Cobb County
commissions in Georgia, described in v. 410 F. Supp. 2d 1324 (ND
Ga. 2006).
5
 For example, at the most
recent Presidential inauguration, a minister faced the assembly of
onlookers on the National Mall and began with those very words. 159
Cong. Rec. S183, S186 (Jan. 22, 2013).
6
 See generally Brief for
Robert E. Palmer as (Ne-braska Legislature chaplain at issue in );
, , at 11 (describing his prayers as routinely referring “to
Christ, the Bible, [and] holy days”). See also v. , 504 F.
Supp. 585, 590, n. 12 (Neb. 1980) (“A rule of the Nebraska
Legislature requires that ‘every member shall be present
within the Legislative Chamber during the meetings of the
Legislature . . . unless excused
. . . .’ Unless the excuse for nonattendance
is deemed sufficient by the legislature, the ‘presence of any
member may be compelled, if necessary, by sending the Sergeant at
Arms’ ” (alterations in original)).
7
 G. Wills, Inventing
America: Jefferson’s Declaration of Independence 46
(1978).
8
 N. Cousins, In God We
Trust: The Religious Beliefs and Ideas of the American Founding
Fathers 4–5, 13 (1958).
9
 M. Puls, Samuel
Adams: Father of the American Revolution 160 (2006).
10  Letter to Abigail Adams (Sept. 16,
1774), in C. Adams, Familiar Letters of John Adams and His
Wife Abigail Adams, During the Revolution 37 (1876).
11  
12  See
G. Wills, , at 46; J. Miller, Sam Adams 85, 87 (1936);
I. Stoll, Samuel Adams: A Life 7, 134–135
(2008).
13  C. Adams, , at 37.
14  
15  ; see
W. Wells, 2 The Life and Public Services of SamuelAdams
222–223 (1865); J. Miller, at 320; E. Burnett, The
Continental Congress 40 (1941); M. Puls, , at
161.
16  First
Prayer of the Continental Congress, 1774, online at
http://chaplain.house.gov/archive/continental.html.
17  1
Annals of Cong. 24–25 (1789); R. Cord, Separation of Church
and State: Historical Fact and Current Fiction 23
(1982).
18  1
Annals of Cong. 247, 424; R. Labunski, James Madison and the
Struggle for the Bill of Rights 240–241 (2006).


