::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-042
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 565 (2014)
::decision_name::  Town of Greece v. Galloway
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–696

															_________________

															TOWN OF GREECE, NEW YORK, PETITIONER v.SUSAN
GALLOWAY et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the second circuit

															[May 5, 2014]

															

															     Justice Thomas, with
whom Justice Scalia joins asto Part II, concurring in part and
concurring in thejudgment.

															     Except for Part
II–B, I join the opinion of the Court, which faithfully
applies Marsh v. Chambers, 463 U. S. 783 (1983) . I write
separately to reiterate my view that the Establishment Clause is
“best understood as a federalism provision,” Elk Grove
Unified School Dist. v. Newdow, 542 U. S. 1, 50 (2004)
(Thomas, J., concurring in judgment), and to state my understanding
of the proper “coercion” analysis.

															I

															     The Establishment
Clause provides that “Congress shall make no law respecting
an establishment of religion.” U. S. Const., Amdt. 1. As
I have explained before, the text and history of the Clause
“resis[t] incorporation” against the States. Newdow,
supra, at 45–46; see also Van Orden v. Perry, 545 U. S.
677 –693 (2005) (Thomas, J., concurring); Zelman v.
Simmons-Harris, 536 U. S. 639 –680 (2002) (same). If the
Establishment Clause is not incorporated, then it has no
application here, where only municipal action is at issue.

															     As an initial matter,
the Clause probably prohibits Congress from establishing a national
religion. Cf. D. Drakeman, Church, State, and Original Intent
260–262 (2010). The text of the Clause also suggests that
Congress “could not interfere with state establishments,
notwithstanding any argument that could be made based on
Congress’ power under the Necessary and Proper Clause.”
Newdow, supra, at 50 (opinion of Thomas, J.). The language of the
First Amendment (“Congress shall make no law”)
“precisely tracked and inverted the exact wording” of
the Necessary and Proper Clause (“Congress shall have power
. . . to make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper . . . ”), which was the subject of fierce
criticism by Anti-Federalists at the time of ratification. A. Amar,
The Bill of Rights 39 (1998) (hereinafter Amar); see also Natelson,
The Framing and Adoption of the Necessary and Proper Clause, in The
Origins of the Necessary and Proper Clause 84, 94–96 (G.
Lawson, G. Miller, R. Natelson,& G. Seidman eds. 2010)
(summarizing Anti-Federalist claims that the Necessary and Proper
Clause would aggrandize the powers of the Federal Government). That
choice of language—“Congress shall make no
law”—effectively denied Congress any power to regulate
state establishments.

															     Construing the
Establishment Clause as a federalism provision accords with the
variety of church-state arrangements that existed at the Founding.
At least six States had established churches in 1789. Amar
32–33. New England States like Massachusetts, Connecticut,
and New Hampshire maintained local-rule establishments whereby the
majority in each town could select the minister and religious
denomination (usually Congregationalism, or
“Puritanism”). McConnell, Establishment and
Disestablishment at the Founding, Part I: Establishment of
Religion, 44 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 2105, 2110 (2003); see
also L. Levy, The Establishment Clause: Religion and the First
Amendment 29–51 (1994) (hereinafter Levy). In the South,
Maryland, South Carolina, and Georgia eliminated their exclusive
Anglican establishments following the American Revolution and
adopted general establishments, which permitted taxation in support
of all Christian churches (or, as in South Carolina, all Protestant
churches). See Levy 52–58; Amar 32–33. Virginia, by
contrast, had recently abolished its official state establishment
and ended direct government funding of clergy after a legislative
battle led by James Madison. See T. Buckley, Church and State in
Revolutionary Virginia, 1776–1787, pp. 155–164 (1977).
Other States—principally Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, and
Delaware, which were founded by religious dissenters—had no
history of formal establishments at all, although they still
maintained religious tests for office. See McConnell, The Origins
and Historical Understanding of Free Exercise of Religion, 103
Harv. L. Rev. 1409, 1425–1426, 1430 (1990).

															     The import of this
history is that the relationship between church and state in the
fledgling Republic was far from settled at the time of
ratification. See Muñoz, The Original Meaning of the
Establishment Clause and the Impossibility of Its Incorporation, 8
U. Pa. J. Constitutional L. 585, 605 (2006). Although the
remaining state establishments were ultimately
dismantled—Massachusetts, the last State to disestablish,
would do so in 1833, see Levy 42—that outcome was far from
assured when the Bill of Rights was ratified in 1791. That lack of
consensus suggests that the First Amendment was simply agnostic on
the subject of state establishments; the decision to establish or
disestablish religion was reserved to the States. Amar 41.

															     The Federalist logic of
the original Establishment Clause poses a special barrier to its
mechanical incorporation against the States through the Fourteenth
Amendment. See id., at 33. Unlike the Free Exercise Clause, which
“plainly protects individuals against congressional
interference with the right to exercise their religion,” the
Establishment Clause “does not purport to protect individual
rights.” Newdow, 542 U. S., at 50 (opinion of Thomas,
J.). Instead, the States are the particular beneficiaries of the
Clause. Incorporation therefore gives rise to a paradoxical result:
Applying the Clause against the States eliminates their right to
establish a religion free from federal interference, thereby
“prohibit[ing] exactly what the Establishment Clause
protected.” Id., at 51; see Amar 33–34.

															     Put differently, the
structural reasons that counsel against incorporating the Tenth
Amendment also apply to the Establishment Clause. Id., at 34. To my
knowledge, no court has ever suggested that the Tenth Amendment,
which “reserve[s] to the States” powers not delegated
to the Federal Government, could or should be applied against the
States. To incorporate that limitation would be to divest the
States of all powers not specifically delegated to them, thereby
inverting the original import of the Amendment. Incorporating the
Establishment Clause has precisely the same effect.

															     The most cogent
argument in favor of incorporation may be that, by the time of
Reconstruction, the framers of the Fourteenth Amendment had come to
reinterpret the Establishment Clause (notwithstanding its
Federalist origins) as expressing an individual right. On this
question, historical evidence from the 1860’s is mixed.
Congressmen who catalogued the personal rights protected by the
First Amendment commonly referred to speech, press, petition, and
assembly, but not to a personal right of nonestablishment; instead,
they spoke only of “ ‘free
exercise’ ” or “ ‘freedom of
conscience.’ ” Amar 253, and 385, n. 91
(collecting sources). There may be reason to think these lists were
abbreviated, and silence on the issue is not dispositive. See Lash,
The Second Adoption of the Establishment Clause: The Rise of the
Nonestablishment Principle, 27 Ariz. St. L. J. 1085,
1141–1145 (1995); but cf. S. Smith, Foreordained Failure: The
Quest for a Constitutional Principle of Religious Freedom
50–52 (1995). Given the textual and logical difficulties
posed by incorporation, however, there is no warrant for
transforming the meaning of the Establishment Clause without a firm
historical foundation. See Newdow, supra, at 51 (opinion of Thomas,
J.). The burden of persuasion therefore rests with those who claim
that the Clause assumed a different meaning upon adoption of the
Fourteenth Amendment.[1]

															II

															     Even if the
Establishment Clause were properly incorporated against the States,
the municipal prayers at issue in this case bear no resemblance to
the coercive state establishments that existed at the founding.
“The coercion that was a hallmark of historical
establishments of religion was coercion of religious orthodoxy and
of financial support by force of law and threat of penalty.”
Lee v. Weisman, 505 U. S. 577, 640 (1992) (Scalia, J.,
dissent-ing); see also Perry, 545 U. S., at 693–694
(Thomas, J., concurring); Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U. S. 709,
729 (2005) (Thomas, J., concurring); Newdow, supra, at 52 (opinion
of Thomas, J.). In a typical case, attendance at the established
church was mandatory, and taxes were levied to generate church
revenue. McConnell, Establishment and Disestablishment, at
2144–2146, 2152–2159. Dissenting ministers were barred
from preaching, and political participation was limited to members
of the established church. Id., at 2161–2168,
2176–2180.

															     This is not to say that
the state establishments in existence when the Bill of Rights was
ratified were uniform. As previously noted, establishments in the
South were typically governed through the state legislature or
State Constitution, while establishments in New England were
administered at the municipal level. See supra, at 2–3.
Notwithstanding these variations, both state and local forms of
establishment involved “actual legal coercion,” Newdow,
supra, at 52 (opinion of Thomas, J.): They exercised government
power in order to exact financial support of the church, compel
religious observance, or control religious doctrine.

															     None of these
founding-era state establishments remained at the time of
Reconstruction. But even assuming that the framers of the
Fourteenth Amendment reconceived the nature of the Establishment
Clause as a constraint on the States, nothing in the history of the
intervening period suggests a fundamental transformation in their
understanding of what constituted an establishment. At a minimum,
there is no support for the proposition that the framers of the
Fourteenth Amendment embraced wholly modern notions that the
Establishment Clause is violated whenever the “reasonable
observer” feels “subtle pressure,” ante, at 18,
19, or perceives governmental “endors[ement],” ante, at
5–6. For example, of the 37 States in existence when the
Fourteenth Amendment was rati-fied, 27 State Constitutions
“contained an explicit reference to God in their
preambles.” Calabresi & Agudo, Individual Rights Under
State Constitutions When the Fourteenth Amendment Was Ratified in
1868: What Rights Are Deeply Rooted in American History and
Tradition?, 87 Tex. L. Rev. 7, 12, 37 (2008). In addition to
the preamble references, 30 State Constitutions contained other
references to the divine, using such phrases as
“ ‘Almighty God,’ ”
“ ‘[O]ur Creator,’ ” and
“ ‘Sovereign Ruler of the
Universe.’ ” Id., at 37, 38, 39, n. 104. Moreover,
the state constitutional provisions that prohibited religious
“comp[ulsion]” made clear that the relevant sort of
compulsion was legal in nature, of the same type that had
characterized founding-era establishments.[2] These provisions strongly suggest that, whatever
nonestablishment principles existed in 1868, they included no
concern for the finer sensibilities of the “reasonable
observer.”

															     Thus, to the extent
coercion is relevant to the Establishment Clause analysis, it is
actual legal coercion that counts—not the “subtle
coercive pressures” allegedly felt by respondents in this
case, ante, at 9. The majority properly concludes that
“[o]ffense . . . does not equate to
coercion,” since “[a]dults often encounter speech they
find disagreeable[,] and an Establishment Clause violation is not
made out any time a person experiences a sense of affront from the
expression of contrary religious views in a legislative
forum.” Ante, at 21. I would simply add, in light of the
foregoing history of the Establishment Clause, that “[p]eer
pressure, unpleasant as it may be, is not coercion” either.
Newdow, 542 U. S., at 49 (opinion of Thomas, J.).

Notes
1
 This Court has never
squarely addressed these barriers to the incorporation of the
Establishment Clause. When the issue was first presented in v. , ,
the Court casually asserted that “the [has been] interpreted
to make the prohibitions of the First applicable to state action
abridging religious freedom. There is every reason to give the same
application and broad interpretation to the ‘establishment of
religion’ clause.” , at 15 (footnote omitted). The
cases the Court cited in support of that proposition involved the
Free Exercise Clause—which had been incorporated seven years
earlier, in v. , —not the Establishment Clause. 330 U. S., at
15, n. 22 (collecting cases). Thus, in the space of a single
paragraph and a nonresponsive string citation, the Court glibly
effected a sea change in constitutional law. The Court’s
inattention to these doctrinal questions might be explained,
although not excused, by the rise of popular conceptions about
“separation of church and state” as an
“American” constitutional right. See generally P.
Hamburger, Separation of Church and State 454–463 (2002); see
also at 391–454 (discussing the role of nativist sentiment in
the campaign for “separation” as an American
ideal).
2
 See, , Del. Const., Art.
I, §1 (1831) (“[N]o man shall, or ought to be compelled
to attend any religious worship, to contribute to the erection or
support of any place of worship, or to the maintenance of any
ministry, against his own free will and consent”); Me.
Const., Art. I, §3 (1820) (“[N]o one shall be hurt,
molested or restrained in his person, liberty or estate, for
worshiping God in the manner and season most agreeable to the
dictates of his own conscience”); Mo. Const., Art. I,
§10 (1865) (“[N]o person can be compelled to erect,
support, or attend any place of worship, or maintain any minister
of the Gospel or teacher of religion”); R. I. Const., Art. I,
§3 (1842) (“[N]o man shall be compelled to frequent or
to support any religious worship, place, or ministry what-ever,
except in fulfillment of his own voluntary contract”); Vt.
Const., Ch. I, §3 (1777) (“[N]o man ought, or of right
can be compelled to attend any religious worship, or erect, or
support any place of worship, or maintain any minister, contrary to
the dictates of his conscience”).


