::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-029
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 93 (2014)
::decision_name::  Marvin M. Brandt Revocable Trust v. United States
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–1173

															_________________

															MARVIN M. BRANDT REVOCABLE TRUST, et al.
PETITIONERS v. UNITED STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the tenth circuit

															[March 10, 2014]

															

															     Justice Sotomayor,
dissenting.

															     The Court bases
today’s holding almost entirely on Great Northern R. Co. v.
United States, 315 U. S. 262, 271 (1942) , and its conclusion that
the General Railroad Right-of-Way Act of 1875 granted “only
an easement, and not a fee,” to a railroad possessing a right
of way. The Court errs, however, in two ways. First, it does not
meaningfully grapple with prior cases—Northern Pacific R. Co.
v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267, 271 (1903) , and Rio Grande Western R.
Co. v. Stringham, 239 U. S. 44, 47 (1915) —that
expressly concluded that the United States retained a reversionary
interest in railroad rights of way. To the extent the Court regards
Great Northern as having abrogated these precedents, it places on
Great Northern more weight than that case will bear. Second, the
Court relies on “basic common law principles,” ante, at
12, without recognizing that courts have long treated railroad
rights of way as sui generis property rights not governed by the
ordinary common-law regime. Because Townsend and Stringham largely
dictate the conclusion that the Government retained a reversionary
interest when it granted the right of way at issue, and because any
ambiguity in land grants “is to be resolved favorably to a
sovereign grantor,” Great Northern, 315 U. S., at 272, I
respectfully dissent.

															I

															     Over a century ago,
this Court held that a right of way granted to a railroad by a
pre-1871 Act of Congress included “an implied condition of
reverter” to the Government if the right of way ceased to be
used “for the purpose for which it was granted.”
Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Townsend, 190 U. S. 267, 271 (1903) .
The question in Townsend was whether individual homesteaders could
acquire title by adverse possession to land granted by the United
States as a railroad right of way. The Court held that they could
not, because “the land forming the right of way was not
granted with the intent that it might be absolutely disposed of at
the volition of the company.” Ibid. “On the
contrary,” the Court held, “the grant was explicitly
stated to be for a designated purpose, one which negated the
existence of the power to voluntarily alienate the right of way or
any portion thereof.” Ibid. Hence the “implied
condition of reverter in the event that the com-pany ceased to use
or retain the land for the purpose for which it was granted.”
Ibid. In essence, the Court held, “the grant was of a limited
fee,” ibid.—commonly known as a defeasible fee, see
Restatement (First) of Property §16 (1936)—rather than
fee simple. Thus, if the railroad were to abandon its use of the
right of way, the property would revert to the United States.

															     The Court later
confirmed in Rio Grande Western R. Co. v. Stringham, 239 U. S. 44,
47 (1915) , that this rule applies not just to pre-1871 land grants
to railroads, but also to rights of way granted under the General
Railroad Right-of-Way Act—the Act under which the United
States granted the right of way at issue in this case. That case
stated that rights of way granted under the 1875 Act are
“made on an implied condition of reverter in the event that
the company ceases to use or retain the land for the purposes for
which it is granted.” Ibid. Indeed, Stringham

															sustained the validity of the reverter where, as
here, the United States patented the adjacent land “subject
to [the] right of way.” Id., at 46. If Townsend and Stringham
remain good law on that point, then this case should be resolved in
the Government’s favor.

															II

															A

															     This case therefore
turns on whether, as the majority asserts, Great Northern
“disavowed” Townsend and Stringham as to the question
whether the United States retained a reversionary interest in the
right of way. Ante, at 10. Great Northern did no such thing. Nor
could it have, for the Court did not have occasion to consider that
question.

															     In Great Northern, a
railroad sought to drill for oil beneath the surface of a right of
way granted under the 1875 Act. We held that the railroad had no
right to drill, because the United States did not convey the
underlying oil and minerals when it granted the railroad a right of
way. In language on which the Court relies heavily, Great Northern
opined that the 1875 Act granted the railroad “only an
easement, and not a fee.” 315 U. S., at 271.

															     But that language does
not logically lead to the place at which the majority ultimately
arrives. All that Great Northern held—all, at least, that was
necessary to its ruling—was that the right of way did not
confer one particular attribute of fee title. Specifically, the
Court held, the right of way did not confer the right to exploit
subterranean resources, because the 1875 Act could not have made
clearer that the right of way extended only to surface lands: It
provided that after the recordation of a right of way, “all
. . . lands over which such right of way shall pass shall
be disposed of subject to such right of way.” Ibid. (second
emphasis and internal quotation marks omitted). But the Court did
not hold that the right of way failed to confer any sticks in the
proverbial bundle of rights generally associated with fee title.
Cf. B. Cardozo, The Paradoxes of Legal Science 129 (1928) (reprint
2000); United States v. Craft, 535 U. S. 274, 278 (2002) . And
this case concerns an attribute of fee
title—defeasibility—that no party contends was at issue
in Great Northern.

															     The majority places
heavy emphasis on Great Northern’s characterization of rights
of way under the 1875 Act as “easements,” rather than
“limited fees.” When an easement is abandoned, the
majority reasons, it is extinguished; in effect, it reverts to the
owner of the underlying estate, rather than to its original
grantor. Ante, at 11–12. For that reason, the majority
concludes, “basic common law principles” require us to
retreat from our prior holdings that railroad rights of way entail
an implied possibility of reverter to the original
grantor—the United States—should the right of way cease
to be used by a railroad for its intended purpose. Ante, at 12.

															     But federal and state
decisions in this area have not historically depended on
“basic common law principles.” To the contrary, this
Court and others have long recognized that in the context of
railroad rights of way, traditional property terms like
“fee” and “easement” do not neatly track
common-law definitions. In Stringham, the Court articulated ways in
which rights of ways bear attributes both of easements and fees,
explaining that “[t]he right of way granted by [the 1875 Act]
and similar acts is neither a mere easement, nor a fee simple
absolute.” 239 U. S., at 47. In New Mexico v. United
States Trust Co., 172 U. S. 171 –183 (1898), the Court
further observed that even if a particular right of way granted by
the United States was an “easement,” then it was
“surely morethan an ordinary easement” because it had
“attributes of the fee” like exclusive use and
possession. See also Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Pennsylvania R.
Co., 195 U. S. 540 –570 (1904) (reaffirming this view).
Earlier, in 1854, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court had
explained that although the right acquired by a railroad was
“technically an easement,” it “require[d] for its
enjoyment a use of the land permanent in its nature and practically
exclusive.” Hazen v. Boston and Me. R. Co., 68 Mass.
574, 580 (1854). And the Iowa Supreme Court, in a late 19th-century
opinion, observed that “[t]he easement” in question
“is not that spoken of in the old law books, but is peculiar
to the use of a railroad.” Smith v. Hall, 103 Iowa 95, 96, 72
N. W. 427, 428 (1897).

															     Today’s opinion
dispenses with these teachings. Al-though the majority canvasses
the special role railroads played in the development of our Nation,
it concludes that we are bound by the common-law definitions that
apply to more typical property. In doing so, it ignores the sui
generis nature of railroad rights of way. That Great Northern
referred to a right of way granted under the 1875 Act as an
“easement” does not derail the Court’s previous
unequivocal pronouncements that rights of way under the Act are
“made on an implied condition of re-verter.” Stringham,
239 U. S., at 47.

															B

															     Not only does Great
Northern fail to support the major-ity’s conclusion;
significant aspects of Great Northern’s reasoning actually
support the contrary view. In that case, the Court relied heavily
on Congress’ policy shift in the early 1870’s away from
bestowing extravagant “ ‘subsidies in public lands
to railroads and other corporations.’ ” 315
U. S., at 273–274 (quoting Cong. Globe, 42d Cong., 2d
Sess., 1585 (1872)). That history similarly weighs in the
Government’s favor here. Just as the post-1871 Congress did
not likely mean to confer subsurface mineral rights on railroads,
as held in Great Northern, it did not likely mean to grant
railroads an indefeasible property interest in rights of
way—a kind of interest more generous than that which it gave
in our cases concerning pre-1871 grants.

															     As in Great Northern,
moreover, the purpose of the 1875 Act supports the Government.
Congress passed the Act, we noted, “to permit the
construction of railroads through public lands” and thus to
“enhance their value and hasten their settlement.” 315
U. S., at 272. In Great Northern, we held, that purpose did
not require granting to the railroad any right to that which lay
beneath the surface. The same is true here. As we recognized in
Townsend and Stringham, the United States granted rights of way to
railroads subject to “an implied condition of reverter in the
event that the” railroads “cease[d] to use or retain
the land for the purposes for which it is granted.”
Stringham, 239 U. S., at 47. Nothing about the purpose of the
1875 Act suggests Congress ever meant to abandon that sensible
limitation.

															     Further, Great Northern
relied on the conventional rule that “a grant is to be
resolved favorably to a sovereign grantor,” 315 U. S.,
at 272, and that “ ‘nothing passes but what is
conveyed in clear and explicit language,’ ” ibid.
(quoting Caldwell v. United States, 250 U. S. 14, 20 (1919) ).
“Nothing in the [1875] Act,” we observed, “may be
characterized as a ‘clear and explicit’ conveyance of
the . . . oil and minerals” underlying a right of
way. 315 U. S.,at 272. Just so here, as nothing in the 1875
Act clearly evinces Congress’ intent not to make the rights
of way conveyed under the Act defeasible, in the manner described
by Townsend and Stringham. In fact, the presumption in favor of
sovereign grantors applies doubly here, where the United States was
the sovereign grantor both of the right of way and of the ultimate
patent.

															III

															     The majority notes
that in Great Northern, the United States took the position that
rights of way granted to railroads are easements. Ante, at 9. In
the majority’s view, because the Great Northern Court adopted
that position “in full,” it is unfair for the
Government to backtrack on that position now. Ante, at 9.

															     Even assuming that it
is an injustice for the Government to change positions on an issue
over a 70-year period, it is not clear that such a change in
position happened here. Yes, the Government argued in Great
Northern that a right of way was an “easement.” It
proposed, however, that the right of way may well have had
“some of the attributes of a fee.” Brief for United
States in Great Northern R. Co. v. United States, O. T. 1941, No.
149, pp. 36–37. The Government contended that it is
“ ‘not important whether the interest or estate
passed be considered an easement or a limited
fee,’ ” observing that an easement “may be
held in fee determinable.” Id., at 35–36 (quoting
United States v. Big Horn Land & Cattle Co., 17 F. 2d 357,
365 (CA8 1927)). Indeed, the Government expressly reserved the
possibility that it retained a reversionary interest in the right
of way, even if the surrounding land was patented to others. Brief
for United States in Great Northern, at 10 n. 4. The Court is right
to criticize the Government when it takes
“self-serving” and contradictory positions, ante, at
12, but such critique is misplaced here.

															*  *  *

															     Since 1903, this Court
has held that rights of way were granted to railroads with an
implied possibility of reverter to the United States. Regardless of
whether these rights of way are labeled “easements” or
“fees,” nothing in Great Northern overruled that
conclusion. By changing course today, the Court undermines the
legality of thousands of miles of former rights of way that the
public now enjoys as means of transportation and recreation. And
lawsuits challenging the conversion of former rails to recreational
trails alone may well cost American taxpayers hundreds of millions
of dollars.[1] I do not believe
the law requires this result, and I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 Dept. of Justice,
Environment and Natural Resources Div., FY2014 Performance Budget,
Congressional Submission, p. 7,
http://www.justice.gov/jmd/2014justification/pdf/enrd-justification.pdf
(visited Mar. 7, 2014, and available in Clerk of Court’s case
file).


