::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-048
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 782 (2014)
::decision_name::  Michigan v. Bay Mills Indian Cmty
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–515

															_________________

															MICHIGAN, PETITIONER v. BAY MILLS
INDIANCOMMUNITY et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the sixth circuit

															[May 27, 2014]

															

															     Justice Thomas, with
whom Justice Scalia, Justice Ginsburg, and Justice Alito join,
dissenting.

															     In Kiowa Tribe of Okla.
v. Manufacturing Technologies, Inc., 523 U. S. 751 (1998) ,
this Court extended the judge-made doctrine of tribal sovereign
immunity to bar suits arising out of an Indian tribe’s
commercial activities conducted outside its territory. That was
error. Such an expansion of tribal immunity is unsupported by any
rationale for that doctrine, inconsistent with the limits on tribal
sovereignty, and an affront to state sovereignty.

															     That decision, wrong to
begin with, has only worsened with the passage of time. In the 16
years since Kiowa, tribal commerce has proliferated and the
inequities engendered by unwarranted tribal immunity have
multiplied. Nevertheless, the Court turns down a chance to rectify
its error. Still lacking a substantive justification for
Kiowa’s rule, the majority relies on notions of deference to
Congress and stare decisis. Because those considerations do not
support (and cannot sustain) Kiowa’s unjustifiable rule and
its mounting consequences, I respectfully dissent.

															I

															A

															     There is no
substantive basis for Kiowa’s extension of tribal immunity to
off-reservation commercial acts. As this Court explained in Kiowa,
the common-law doctrine of tribal sovereign immunity arose
“almost by accident.” Id., at 756. The case this Court
typically cited as the doctrine’s source “simply does
not stand for that proposition,” ibid. (citing Turner v.
United States, 248 U. S. 354 (1919) ), and later cases merely
“reiterated the doctrine” “with little
analysis,” 523 U. S., at 757. In fact, far from
defending the doctrine of tribal sovereign immunity, the Kiowa
majority “doubt[ed] the wisdom of perpetuating the
doctrine.” Id., at 758. The majority here suggests just one
post hoc justification: that tribes automatically receive
immunity as an incident to their historic sovereignty. But that
explanation fails to account for the fact that immunity does not
apply of its own force in the courts of another sovereign. And none
of the other colorable rationales for the doctrine—i.e.,
considerations of comity, and protection of tribal self-sufficiency
and self-government—supports extending immunity to suits
arising out of a tribe’s commercial activities conducted
beyond its territory.

															1

															     Despite the Indian
tribes’ subjection to the authority and protection of the
United States Government, this Court has deemed them
“domestic dependent nations” that retain limited
attributes of their historic sovereignty. Cherokee Nation v.
Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 17 (1831); see also United States v. Wheeler,
435 U. S. 313, 323 (1978) (“The sovereignty that the
Indian tribes retain is of a unique and limited character”).
The majority suggests that tribal immunity is one such attribute of
sovereignty that tribes have retained. See ante, at 5; Brief for
Respondent Bay Mills Indian Community 48; On that view, immunity
from suit applies automatically, on the theory that it is simply
“inherent in the nature of sovereignty,” The Federalist
No. 81, p. 548 (J. Cooke ed. 1961).

															     This basis for
immunity—the only substantive basis the majority
invokes—is unobjectionable when a tribe raises immunity as a
defense in its own courts. We have long recognized that in the
sovereign’s own courts, “the sovereign’s power to
determine the jurisdiction of its own courts and to define the
substantive legal rights of its citizens adequately explains the
lesser authority to define its own immunity.” Kiowa, supra,
at 760 (Stevens, J., dissenting) (citing Kawananakoa v. Polyblank,
205 U. S. 349, 353 (1907) ). But this notion cannot support a
tribe’s claim of immunity in the courts of another
sovereign—either a State (as in Kiowa) or the United States
(as here). Sovereign immunity is not a freestanding
“right” that applies of its own force when a sovereign
faces suit in the courts of another. Republic of Austria v.
Altmann, 541 U. S. 677, 688 (2004) . Rather, “[t]he
sovereign’s claim to immunity in the courts of a second
sovereign . . . normally depends on the second
sovereign’s law.” Kiowa, supra, at 760–761
(Stevens, J., dissenting); see, e.g., Altmann, supra, at 711
(Breyer, J., concurring) (application of foreign sovereign immunity
“is a matter, not of legal right, but of ‘grace and
comity’ ”).[1]
In short, to the extent an Indian tribe may claim immunity in
federal or state court, it is because federal or state law provides
it, not merely because the tribe is sovereign. Outside of tribal
courts, the majority’s inherent-immunity argument is hardly
persuasive.

															2

															     Immunity for
independent foreign nations in federal courts is grounded in
international “comity,” Verlinden B. V. v. Central
Bank of Nigeria, 461 U. S. 480, 486 (1983) , i.e., respecting
the dignity of other sovereigns so as not
to“ ‘ “imperil the amicable relations
between governments and vex the peace of
nations,” ’ ” Banco Nacional de Cuba v.
Sabbatino, 376 U. S. 398, 418 (1964) . But whatever its
relevance to tribal immunity, comity is an ill-fitting
justification for extending immunity to tribes’
off-reservation commercial activities. Even with respect to fully
sovereign foreign nations, comity has long been discarded as a
sufficient reason to grant immunity for commercial acts. In 1976,
Congress provided that foreign states are not immune from suits
based on their “commercial activity” in the United
States or abroad. Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, 28
U. S. C. §1605(a)(2); see also Alfred Dunhill of
London, Inc. v. Republic of Cuba, 425 U. S. 682 –704
(1976) (plurality opinion of White, J., joined by Burger,
C. J., and Powell and Rehnquist, JJ.) (“Subjecting
for-eign governments to the rule of law in their commercial
dealings” is “unlikely to touch very sharply on
‘na-tional nerves,’ ” because “[i]n
their commercial capacities, for-eign governments do not exercise
powers peculiar tosovereigns”).

															     There is a further
reason that comity cannot support tribal immunity for
off-reservation commercial activities. At bottom, comity is about
one sovereign respecting the dignity of another. See Nevada v.
Hall, 440 U. S. 410, 416 (1979) . But permitting immunity for
a tribe’s off-reservation acts represents a substantial
affront to a different set of sovereigns—the States, whose
sovereignty is guaranteed by the Constitution, see New York v.
United States, 505 U. S. 144, 188 (1992) (“The
Constitution . . . ‘leaves to the several States a
residuary and inviolable sovereignty’ ” (quoting
The Federalist No. 39, at 256)). When an Indian tribe engages in
commercial activity outside its own territory, it necessarily acts
within the territory of a sovereign State. This is why,
“[a]bsent express federal law to the contrary, Indians going
beyond reservation boundaries have generally been held subject to
nondiscriminatory state law otherwise applicable to all citizens of
the State.” Mescalero Apache Tribe v. Jones, 411 U. S.
145 –149 (1973). A rule barring all suits against a tribe
arising out of a tribe’s conduct within state
territory—whether private actions or (as here) actions
brought by the State itself—stands in stark contrast to a
State’s broad regulatory authority over Indians within its
own territory. Indeed, by foreclosing key mechanisms upon which
States depend to enforce their laws against tribes engaged in
off-reservation commercial activity, such a rule effects a
breathtaking pre-emption of state power. Kiowa, 523 U. S., at
764 (Stevens, J., dissenting). What is worse, because that rule of
immunity also applies in state courts, it strips the States of
their prerogative “to decide for themselves whether to accord
such immunity to Indian tribes as a matter of comity.” Id.,
at 760 (same). The States may decide whether to grant immunity in
their courts to other sovereign States, see Hall, supra, at
417–418 (a State’s immunity from suit in the courts of
a second State depends on whether the second has chosen to extend
immunity to the first “as a matter of comity”), but
when it comes to Indian tribes, this Court has taken that right
away. Kiowa, supra, at 765 (Stevens, J., dissenting).

															     Nor does granting
tribes immunity with respect to their commercial conduct in state
territory serve the practical aim of comity: allaying friction
between sovereigns. See Banco Nacional de Cuba, supra, at
417–418. We need look no further than this case (and many
others cited by petitioner and amici States) to see that such broad
immunity has only aggravated relationships between States and
tribes throughout the country. See infra, at 11–13; see
generally Brief for State of Alabama et al. 11–16; Brief
for State of Oklahoma 8–10, 12–15.

															3

															     This Court has
previously suggested that recognizing tribal immunity furthers a
perceived congressional goal of promoting tribal self-sufficiency
and self-governance. See Kiowa, supra, at 757; Three Affiliated
Tribes of Fort Berthold Reservation v. Wold Engineering,
P. C., 476 U. S. 877, 890 (1986) . Whatever the force of
this assertion as a general matter, it is easy to reject as a basis
for extending tribal immunity to off-reservation commercial
activities. In Kiowa itself, this Court dismissed the
self-sufficiency rationale as “inapposite to modern,
wide-ranging tribal enterprises extending well beyond traditional
tribal customs and activities.” 523 U. S., at
757–758. The Court expressed concern that “[i]n this
economic context, immunity can harm those who are unaware that they
are dealing with a tribe, who do not know of tribal immunity, or
who have no choice in the matter, as in the case of tort
victims.” Id., at 758.

															     Nor is immunity for
off-reservation commercial acts necessary to protect tribal
self-governance. As the Kiowa majority conceded, “[i]n our
interdependent and mobile society, . . . tribal immunity
extends beyond what is needed to safeguard tribal
self-governance.” Ibid. Such broad immunity far exceeds the
modest scope of tribal sover-eignty, which is limited only to
“what is necessary to pro-tect tribal self-government or to
control internal relations.” Montana v. United States, 450
U. S. 544, 564 (1981) ; see also Nevada v. Hicks, 533
U. S. 353, 392 (2001) (O’Connor, J., concurring in part
and concurring in judgment) (“[T]ribes retain sovereign
interests in activities that occur on land owned and controlled by
the tribe . . .”). And no party has suggested that
immunity from the isolated suits that may arise out of
extraterritorial commercial dealings is somehow fundamental to
protecting tribal government or regulating a tribe’s internal
affairs.

															B

															     Despite acknowledging
that there is scant substantive justification for extending tribal
immunity to off-reservation commercial acts, this Court did just
that in Kiowa. See 523 U. S., at 758. The Kiowa majority
admitted that the Court—rather than Congress—“has
taken the lead in drawing the bounds of tribal immunity.”
Id., at 759. Nevertheless, the Court adopted a rule of expansive
immunity purportedly to “defer to the role Congress may wish
to exercise in this important judgment.” Id., at 758.

															     This asserted
“deference” to Congress was a fiction and remains an
enigma, however, because the Kiowa Court did not actually leave to
Congress the decision whether to extend tribal immunity. Tribal
immunity is a common-law doctrine adopted and shaped by this Court.
Okla-homa Tax Comm’n v. Citizen Band Potawatomi Tribe of
Okla., 498 U. S. 505, 510 (1991) ; Kiowa, 523 U. S., at
759. Before Kiowa, we had never held that tribal sovereign immunity
applied to off-reservation commercial activities.[2] Thus, faced with an unresolved question
about a common-law doctrine of its own design, the Kiowa Court had
to make a choice: tailor the immunity to the realities of their
commercial enterprises, or “grant
. . . virtually unlimited tribal immunity.”
Id., at 764 (Stevens, J., dissenting). The Court took the latter
course. In doing so, it did not “defe[r] to Congress or
exercis[e] ‘caution,’—rather, it . . .
creat[ed] law.” Id., at 765 (citation omitted). To be sure,
Congress had the power to “alter” that decision if it
wanted. Id., at 759 (majority opinion). But Congress has the
authority to do that with respect to any nonconstitutional decision
involving federal law, and the mere existence of this authority
could not be the basis for choosing one outcome over another in
Kiowa.[3]

															     Accident or no, it was
this Court, not Congress, that adopted the doctrine of tribal
sovereign immunity in the first instance. And it was this Court
that left open a question about its scope. Why should
Congress—and only Congress, according to the Kiowa
Court—have to take on a problem this Court created? In other
areas of federal common law, until Congress intervenes, it is up to
us to correct our errors. See, e.g., Exxon Shipping Co. v. Baker,
554 U. S. 471, 507 (2008) (“[I]f, in the absence of
legislation, judicially derived standards leave the door open to
outlier punitive-damages awards [in maritime law], it is hard to
see how the judiciary can wash its hands of a problem it created,
simply by calling quantified standards legislative”);
National Metropolitan Bank v. United States, 323 U. S. 454,
456 (1945) (“[I]n the absence of an applicable Act of
Congress, federal courts must fashion the governing rules” in
commercial-paper cases affecting the rights and liabilities of the
United States). We have the same duty here.

															II

															     Today, the Court
reaffirms Kiowa. Unsurprisingly, it offers no new substantive
defense for Kiowa’s indefensible view of tribal immunity.
Instead, the majority relies on a combination of the Kiowa
Court’s purported deference to Congress and considerations of
stare decisis. I have already explained why it was error to ground
the Kiowa rule in deference to Congress. I turn now to stare
decisis. Contrary to the majority’s claim, that policy does
not require us to preserve this Court’s mistake in Kiowa. The
Court’s failure to justify Kiowa’s rule and the
decision’s untoward consequences outweigh the
majority’s arguments for perpetuating the error.

															A

															     Stare decisis may
sometimes be “the preferred course,” but as this Court
acknowledges, it is “not an inexorable command.” Payne
v. Tennessee, 501 U. S. 808, 827, 828 (1991) . “[W]hen
governing decisions are unworkable or are badly reasoned,”
id., at 827, or “experience has pointed up the
precedent’s shortcomings,” Pearson v. Callahan, 555
U. S. 223, 233 (2009) , “ ‘this Court has
never felt constrained to follow precedent,’ ”
Payne, supra, at 827. See also Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. v.
Mayacamas Corp., 485 U. S. 271 –283 (1988) (overruling
precedent as “deficient in utility and sense,”
“unsound in theory, unworkable and arbitrary in practice, and
unnecessary to achieve any legitimate goals”). The discussion
above explains why Kiowa was unpersuasive on its own terms. Now,
the adverse consequences of that decision make it even more
untenable.

															     In the 16 years since
Kiowa, the commercial activities of tribes have increased
dramatically. This is especially evident within the tribal gambling
industry. Combined tribal gaming revenues in 28 States have more
than tripled—from $8.5 billion in 1998 to $27.9 billion in
2012. National Indian Gaming Commission, 2012 Indian Gaming
Revenues Increase 2.7 Percent (July 23, 2013), online at
http://www.nigc.gov / LinkClick.aspx?fileticket = Fhd5shyZ1fM%3D(all
Internet materials as visited May 2, 2014, and available in Clerk
of Court’s case file). But tribal businesses extend well
beyond gambling and far past reservation borders. In addition to
ventures that take advantage of on-reservation resources (like
tourism, recreation, mining, forestry, and agriculture), tribes
engage in “domestic and international business
ventures” including manufacturing, retail, banking,
construction, energy, telecommunications, and more. Graham, An
Interdisciplinary Approach to American Indian Economic Development,
80 N. D. L. Rev. 597, 600–604 (2004). Tribal
enterprises run the gamut: they sell cigarettes and prescription
drugs online; engage in foreign financing; and operate greeting
cards companies, national banks, cement plants, ski resorts, and
hotels. Ibid.; see also, e.g., The Harvard Project on American
Indian Economic Development, The State of the Native Nations 124
(2008) (Ho-Chunk, Inc., a tribal corporationof the Winnebago Tribe
of Nebraska, operates “hotelsin Nebraska and Iowa,”
“numerous retail groceryand convenience stores,” a
“tobacco and gasoline distribution company,” and
“a temporary labor service provider”); Four Fires, San
Manuel Band of Mission Indians,
http://www.sanmanuel-nsn.gov/fourfires.php.html) (four Tribes from
California and Wisconsin jointly own and operate a $43 million
hotel in Washington, D. C.). These manifold com-mercial
enterprises look the same as any other—except immunity
renders the tribes largely litigation-proof.

															     As the commercial
activity of tribes has proliferated, the conflict and inequities
brought on by blanket tribal immunity have also increased. Tribal
immunity significantly limits, and often extinguishes, the
States’ ability to protect their citizens and enforce the law
against tribal busi-nesses. This case is but one example: No one
can seriously dispute that Bay Mills’ operation of a casino
outside its reservation (and thus within Michigan territory) would
violate both state law and the Tribe’s compact with Michigan.
Yet, immunity poses a substantial impediment to Michigan’s
efforts to halt the casino’s operation permanently. The
problem repeats itself every time a tribe fails to pay state taxes,
harms a tort victim, breaches a contract, or otherwise violates
state laws, and tribal immu-nity bars the only feasible legal
remedy. Given the wide reach of tribal immunity, such scenarios are
commonplace.[4] See, e.g.,
Oneida Indian Nation of New York v. Madison Cty., 605 F. 3d
149, 163 (CA2 2010) (Cabranes, J., joined by Hall, J., concurring)
(“The holding in this case comes down to this: an Indian
tribe can purchase land (including land that was never part of a
reservation); refuse to pay lawfully-owed taxes; and suffer no
consequences because the taxing authority cannot sue to collect the
taxes owed”); see also Furry v. Miccosukee Tribe of Indians
of Fla., 685 F. 3d 1224 (CA11 2012) (Tribe immune from a suit
arising out of a fatal off-reservation car crash that alleged
negligence and violation of state dram shop laws); Native American
Distributing v. Seneca-Cayuga Tobacco Co., 546 F. 3d 1288
(CA10 2008) (tribal officials and a tobacco-products manufacturer
were immune from a suit brought by a national distributor alleging
breach of contract and interstate market manipulation); Tonasket v.
Sargent, 830 F. Supp. 2d 1078 (ED Wash. 2011) (tribal immunity
foreclosed an action against the Tribe for illegal price fixing,
antitrust violations, and unfair competition), aff’d, 510
Fed. Appx. 648 (CA9 2013); Multimedia Games, Inc. v. WLGC
Acquisition Corp., 214 F. Supp. 2d 1131 (ND Okla. 2001)
(tribal immunity barred a suit alleging copyright infringement,
unfair competition, breach of contract, and other claims against a
tribal business development agency).

															     In the wake of Kiowa,
tribal immunity has also been exploited in new areas that are often
heavily regulated by States. For instance, payday lenders
(companies that lend consumers short-term advances on paychecks at
interest rates that can reach upwards of 1,000 percent per annum)
often arrange to share fees or profits with tribes so they can use
tribal immunity as a shield for conduct of questionable legality.
Martin & Schwartz, The Alliance Between Payday Lenders and
Tribes: Are Both Tribal Sovereignty and Consumer Protection at
Risk? 69 Wash. & Lee L. Rev. 751, 758–759, 777
(2012). Indian tribes have also created conflict in certain States
by asserting tribal immunity as a defense against violations of
state campaign finance laws. See generally Moylan, Sovereign Rules
of the Game: Requiring Campaign Finance Disclosure in the Face of
Tribal Sovereign Immunity, 20 B. U. Pub. Interest L. J. 1
(2010).

															     In sum, any number of
Indian tribes across the country have emerged as substantial and
successful competitors in interstate and international commerce,
both within and beyond Indian lands. As long as tribal immunity
remains out of sync with this reality, it will continue to invite
problems, including de facto deregulation of highly regulated
activities; unfairness to tort victims; and increas-ingly fractious
relations with States and individuals alike. The growing harms
wrought by Kiowa’s unjustifiable rule fully justify
overruling it.

															B

															     In support of its
adherence to stare decisis, the majority asserts that
“Congress has now reflected on Kiowa” and has decided
to “retain” the decision. Ante, at 18; see also ante,
at 19 (“[W]e act today against the backdrop of an apparent
congressional choice: to keep tribal immunity . . . in a
case like this one”). On its face, however, this is a curious
assertion. To this day, Congress has never granted tribal sovereign
immunity in any shape or form—much less immunity that extends
as far as Kiowa went. What the majority really means, I gather, is
that the Court must stay its hand because Congress has implicitly
approved of Kiowa’s rule by not overturning it.

															     This argument from
legislative inaction is unavailing. As a practical matter, it is
“ ‘impossible to assert with any degree of
assurance that congressional failure to act represents’
affirmative congressional approval of” one of this
Court’s decisions. Patterson v. McLean Credit Union, 491
U. S. 164 , n. 1 (1989) (quoting Johnson v.
Transportation Agency, Santa Clara Cty., 480 U. S. 616, 672
(1987) (Scalia, J., dissenting)); see also Girouard v. United
States, 328 U. S. 61, 69 (1946) (“It is at best
treacherous to find in congressional silence alone the adoption of
a controlling rule of law”); Helvering v. Hallock, 309
U. S. 106 , 121 (1940) (“[W]e walk on quicksand when we
try to find in the absence of corrective legislation a controlling
legal principle”). There are many reasons Congress might not
act on a decision like Kiowa, and most of them have nothing at all
to do with Congress’ desire to preserve the decision. See
Johnson, 480 U. S., at 672 (Scalia, J., dissenting) (listing
various kinds of legislative inertia, including an “inability
to agree upon how to alter the status quo” and
“indifference to the status quo”).

															     Even assuming the
general validity of arguments from legislative inaction, they are a
poor fit in this common-law context. Such arguments are typically
based on the premise that the failure of later Congresses to reject
a judicial decision interpreting a statute says something about
what Congress understands the statute to mean. See, e.g., id., at
629, n. 7 (majority opinion). But it is not clear why
Congress’ unenacted “opinion” has any relevance
to determining the correctness of a decision about a doctrine
created and shaped by this Court. Giving dispositive weight to
congressional silence regarding a common-law decision of this Court
effectively codifies that decision based only on Congress’
failure to address it. This approach is at odds with our
Constitution’s requirements for enacting law. Cf. Patterson,
supra, at 175, n. 1 (“Congress may legislate
. . . only through the passage of a bill which is
approved by both Houses and signed by the President. Congressional
inaction cannot amend a duly enacted statute” (citation
omitted)). It is also the direct opposite of this Court’s
usual approach in common-law cases, where we have made clear that,
“in the absence of an applicable Act of Congress, federal
courts must fashion the governing rules.” National
Metropolitan Bank, 323 U. S., at 456; see also supra, at
11–12; Moragne v. States Marine Lines, Inc., 398 U. S.
375, 378 (1970) (precedent barring recovery for wrongful death,
“somewhat dubious even when rendered, is such an
unjustifiable anomaly in the present maritime [common] law that it
should no longer be followed”).[5] Allowing legislative inaction to guide common-law
decisionmaking is not deference, but abdication.[6]

															     In any event, because
legislative inaction is usually indeterminate, we
“ ‘require very persuasive circumstances
enveloping Congressional silence to debar this Court from
reexamining its own doctrines.’ ” Girouard, supra,
at 69. Here, the majority provides nothing that solidifies the
inference of approval it draws from congressional silence in the
wake of Kiowa.

															     First, the majority
cites two Senate bills that proposed to abrogate tribal immunity
for contract and tort claims against tribes. See S. 2299, 105th
Cong., 2d Sess. (1998) (contract claims); S. 2302, 105th Cong., 2d
Sess. (1998) (tort claims). Neither bill expresses Congress’
views on Kiowa’s rule, for both died in committee without a
vote.

															     Second, the majority
notes various post-Kiowa enactments that either abrogate tribal
immunity in various limited contexts or leave it be. See ante, at
18, 19, n. 10. None of these enactments provides a reason to
believe that Congress both considered and approved Kiowa’s
holding. None of them targets with any precision the immunity of
Indian tribes for off-reservation commercial activities. See, e.g.,
Indian Tribal Economic Development and Contract Encouragement Act
of 2000 (codified at 25 U. S. C. §81(d)(2)) (for
contracts that encumber Indian lands for more than seven years,
tribes must either provide for breach-of-contract remedies or
disclose tribal immunity if applicable). And given the exceedingly
narrow contexts in which these provisions apply, see, e.g., Arizona
Water Settlements Act, §213(a)(2), 118Stat. 3531 (abrogating
one tribe’s immunity for the limited purpose of enforcing
water settlements), the far stronger inference is that Congress
simply did not address Kiowa or its extension of immunity in these
Acts; rather, Congress considered only whether an abrogation of
judge-made tribal immunity was necessary to the narrow regulatory
scheme on the table. See, e.g., Prevent All Cigarette Trafficking
Act of 2009, §§2(e), 3(a), 124Stat. 1101, 1108.

															     The majority posits
that its inference of congressional approval of Kiowa is stronger
because Congress failed to act after the Kiowa Court
“urg[ed]” Congress to consider the question presented.
Ante, at 17, 19–20 (quoting Kiowa, 523 U. S., at 758)
(“[W]e defer to the role Congress may wish to exercise in
this important judgment”). But this circumstance too raises
any number of inferences. Congress is under no obligation to review
and respond to every statement this Court makes; perhaps
legislative inertia simply won out. The majority seems to suggest
that Congress understood Kiowa to assign the burgeoning problems of
expansive common-law immunity to the Legislature, and then chose to
let those problems fester. But Congress has not explained its
inaction, and we should not pretend that it has done so by
remaining silent after we supposedly prodded it to say something.
Even if we credit the relevance of post-Kiowa congressional silence
in this common-law context—and I do not—there is
certainly not enough evidence of congressional acquiescence here
“that we can properly place on the shoulders of Congress the
burden of the Court’s own error.” Girouard, 328
U. S., at 69–70.

															C

															     The majority’s
remaining arguments for retaining Kiowa are also unconvincing.

															     First, the majority
characterizes Kiowa as one case in a “long line of
precedents” in which the Court has recognized tribal immunity
“without any exceptions for commercial or off-reservation
conduct.” Ante, at 15. True, the Court has relied on tribal
immunity as a general matter in several cases. But not until Kiowa
were we required to decide whether immunity should extend to
commercial activities beyond Indian reservations. See supra, at 7.
And after Kiowa, we have mentioned it only once, and then only in
dicta. C & L Enterprises, Inc. v. Citizen Band Potawatomi Tribe
of Okla., 532 U. S. 411, 418 (2001) (holding that the Tribe had
waived its immunity in a construction contract). Thus, overturning
Kiowa would overturn Kiowa only.

															     Second, the majority
suggests that tribes and their business partners have now relied on
Kiowa in structuring their contracts and transactions. Ante, at 15.
But even when Kiowa extended the scope of tribal immunity, it was
readily apparent that the Court had strong misgivings about it. Not
one Member of the Kiowa Court identified a substantive
justification for its extension of immunity: Three would not have
expanded the immunity in the first place, Kiowa, 523 U. S., at
760 (Stevens, J., dissenting), and the other six essentially
expressed hope that Congress would overrule the Court’s
decision, see id., at 758–759. Against that backdrop, it
would hardly be reasonable for a tribe to rely on Kiowa as a
permanent grant of immunity for off-reservation commercial
activities. In any event, the utter absence of a reasoned
justification for Kiowa’s rule and its growing adverse
effects easily outweigh this generalized assertion of reliance.
See, e.g., Leegin Creative Leather Products, Inc. v. PSKS, Inc.,
551 U. S. 877, 906 (2007) (in the antitrust context,
overturning the per se rule against vertical price restraints
in part because the “reliance interests” in the case
could not “justify an inefficient rule”).

															*  *  *

															     In Kiowa, this Court
adopted a rule without a reason: a sweeping immunity from suit
untethered from commercial realities and the usual justifications
for immunity, premised on the misguided notion that only Congress
can place sensible limits on a doctrine we created. The decision
was mistaken then, and the Court’s decision to reaffirm it in
the face of the unfairness and conflict it has engendered is doubly
so. I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 State sovereign immunity
is an exception: This Court has said that the States’
immunity from suit in federal court is secured by the Constitution.
See v. , (“[F]or over a century now, we have made clear that
the Constitution does not provide for federal jurisdiction over
suits against nonconsenting States”); v. , (“Although
the sovereign immunity of the States derives at least in part from
the common-law tradition, . . . the immunity exists today
by constitutional design”). Unlike the States, Indian tribes
“are not part of this constitutional order,” and their
immunity is not guaranteed by it. v. , (, J., concurring in
judgment).
2
 The Court in noted that
in one case, we upheld a claim of immunity where “a state
court had asserted jurisdiction over tribal fishing ‘both on
and off its reservation.’ ” 523 U. S., at 754
(quoting v. , ). It went on to admit, however, that “did not
discuss the relevance of where the fishing had taken place.”
523 U. S., at 754. And, as Justice Stevens explained in
dissent, that case was about whether the state courts had
jurisdiction to regulate fishing activities the reservation;
“we had no occasion to consider the validity of an injunction
relating solely to off-reservation fishing.” ., at
763.
3
 Nor did the Court
“defer” to any pre-existing congressional policy
choices. As I have already made clear, the rule the Court chose in
was divorced from, and in some ways contrary to any federal
interest. See Part I–A, ; see also , 523 U. S., at 765
(Stevens, J., dissenting). And the rule is a “strikingly
anomalous” departure from the immunities of other sovereigns
in federal and state court. (observing that conferred on Indian
tribes “broader immunity than the States, the Federal
Government, and foreign nations”); see also Florey, Indian
Country’s Borders: Territoriality, Immunity, and the
Construction of Tribal Sovereignty, 51 Boston College L. Rev.
595, 627 (2010) (After ,“the actual contours of [tribal
immunity] remain astonishingly broad”).
4
 Lower courts have held
that tribal immunity shields not only Indian tribes themselves, but
also entities deemed “arms of the tribe.” See, v. , 629
F. 3d 1173, 1191–1195 (CA10 2010) (casino and economic
development authority were arms of the Tribe); v. , 585 F. 3d
917, 921 (CA6 2009) (tribal conglomerate was an arm of the Tribe).
In addition, tribal immunity has been interpreted to cover tribal
employees and officials acting within the scope of their
employment. See, v. , 548 F. 3d 718, 726–727 (CA9 2008);
v. , 546 F. 3d 1288, 1296 (CA10 2008); v. , 355 F. 3d
141, 143 (CA2 2004) (); v. , 177 F. 3d 1212, 1225–1226
(CA11 1999).
5
 The majority appears to
agree that the Court can revise the judicial doctrine of tribal
immunity, because it reserves the right to make an
“off-reservation” tort exception to ’s blanket
rule. See , at 16, n. 8. In light of that reservation, the
majority’s declaration that it is “Congress’s job
. . . to determine whether or how to limit tribal immu-nity”
rings hollow. at 17. Such a judge-made exception would no more
defer to Congress to “make the call whether to curtail a
tribe’s immunity” than would recognizing that was
wrongly decided in the first instance. at 18. In any event, I
welcome the majority’s interest in fulfilling its independent
responsibility to correct ’s mistaken extension of immunity
“without any exceptions for commercial or off-reservation
conduct.” at 15. I regret only that the Court does not see
fit to take that step today.
6
 Of course, still applies
in the common-law context; I reject only the notion that arguments
from legislative inaction have any place in the
analysis.


