::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-046
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 701 (2014)
::decision_name::  Hall v. Florida
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–10882

															_________________

															FREDDIE LEE HALL, PETITIONER v. FLORIDA

															on writ of certiorari to the supreme court of
florida

															[May 27, 2014]

															

															     Justice Alito, with
whom The Chief Justice, Justice Scalia, and Justice Thomas join,
dissenting.

															     In Atkins v. Virginia,
536 U. S. 304 (2002) , the Court held that the Eighth
Amendment prohibits a death sentence for defendants who are
intellectually disabled but does not mandate the use of a single
method for identifying such defendants. Today, the Court overrules
the latter holding based largely on the positions adopted by
private professional associations. In taking this step, the Court
sharply departs from the framework prescribed in prior Eighth
Amendment cases and adopts a uniform national rule that is both
conceptually unsound and likely to result in confusion. I therefore
respectfully dissent.

															I

															     The Court’s
approach in this case marks a new and most unwise turn in our
Eighth Amendment case law. In Atkins and other cases, the Court
held that the prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment embodies
the “evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of
a maturing society,” and the Court explained that
“those evolving standards should be informed by objective
factors to the maximum possible extent.” Id., at 312
(internal quotation marks omitted). In addition, the Court
“pinpointed that the clearest and most reliable objective
evidence of contemporary values is the legislation enacted by the
country’s legislatures.” Ibid.

															     In these prior cases,
when the Court referred to the evolving standards of a maturing
“society,” the Court meant the standards of American
society as a whole. Now, however, the Court strikes down a state
law based on the evolving standards of professional societies, most
notably the American Psychiatric Association (APA). The Court
begins its analysis with the views of those associations, see ante,
at 7–12, and then, after briefly discussing the enactments of
state legislatures, see ante, at 12–16, returns to the
associations’ views in interpreting Atkins and in exercising
the Court’s “independent judgment” on the
constitutionality of Florida’s law, see ante, at 16–22.
This approach cannot be reconciled with the framework prescribed by
our Eighth Amendment cases.

															A

															     Under this
Court’s modern Eighth Amendment precedents, whether a
punishment is “cruel and unusual” depends on currently
prevailing societal norms, and the Court has long held that laws
enacted by state legislatures provide the “clearest and most
reliable objective evidence of contemporary values,” Penry v.
Lynaugh, 492 U. S. 302, 331 (1989) . This is so because
“in a democratic society[,] legislatures, not courts, are
constituted to respond to the will and consequently the moral
values of the people,” Gregg v. Georgia,
428 U. S. 153, 175–176 (1976) (joint opinion
of Stewart, Powell, and Stevens, JJ.) (internal quotation marks
omitted). Under this approach, as originally conceived, the Court
first asked whether a challenged practice contravened a clear
national consensus evidenced by state legislation, and only if such
a consensus was found would the Court go on and ask “whether
there is reason to disagree with [the States’]
judgment.” Atkins, 536 U. S., at 313.

															     Invoking this two-step
procedure, Atkins held that the Eighth Amendment forbids the
execution of defendants who are intellectually disabled. See id.,
at 315–316. Critical to the Court’s analysis was the
conclusion that “today our society views mentally retarded
offenders as categorically less culpable than the average
criminal.” Id., at 316. “This consensus,” the
Court continued, “unquestionably reflects widespread judgment
about . . . the relationship between mental
retardation and the penological purposes served by the death
penalty.” Id., at 317.

															     While Atkins identified
a consensus against the execution of the intellectually disabled,
the Court observed that there was “serious
disagreement” among the States with respect to the best
method for “determining which offenders are in fact
retarded.” Ibid. The Court therefore “le[ft] to the
States the task of developing appropriate ways” to identify
these defendants. Ibid. (internal quotation marks and alteration
omitted). As we noted just five years ago, Atkins “did not
provide definitive procedural or substantive guides for determining
when a person” is intellectually disabled. Bobby v. Bies, 556
U. S. 825, 831 (2009) .

															B

															     Consistent with the
role that Atkins left for the States, Florida follows the procedure
now at issue. As we explained in Atkins, in order for a defendant
to qualify as intellectually disabled, three separate requirements
must be met: It must be shown that a defendant has both
(1) significantly subaverage intellectual functioning and
(2) deficits in adaptive behavior, and that (3) the onset
of both factors occurred before the age of 18. See 536 U. S.,
at 318; ante, at 8. In implementing this framework, Flor-ida has
determined that the first requirement cannot be satisfied if the
defendant scores higher than 70 on IQ tests, the long-accepted
method of measuring intellectual functioning.[1] The Court today holds that this scheme offends
the Eighth Amendment. The Court objects that Florida’s
approach treats IQ test scores as conclusive and ignores the fact
that an IQ score might not reflect “true” IQ because of
errors in measurement. The Court then concludes that a State must
view a defendant’s IQ as a range of potential scores
calculated using a statistical concept known as the “standard
error of measurement” or SEM. See Part II–B–1,
infra. The Court holds that if this range includes an IQ of 70 or
below (the accepted level for intellectual disability), the
defendant must be permitted to produce other evidence of
intellectual disability in addition to IQ scores.

															     I see no support for
this holding in our traditional approach for identifying our
society’s evolving standards of decency. Under any fair
analysis of current state laws, the same absence of a consensus
that this Court found in Atkins persists today. It is telling that
Hall himself does not rely on a consensus among States. He candidly
argues instead that “the precise number of States that share
Florida’s approach is immaterial.” Reply Brief 2.

															     The Court’s
analysis is more aggressive. According to the Court, a
“significant majority of States” reject Florida’s
“strict 70 cutoff” and instead take “the SEM into
account” when deciding whether a defendant meets the first
requirement of the intellectual-disability test. Ante, at 12, 16.
On the Court’s count, “at most nine States mandate a
strict IQ score cutoff at 70”; 22 States allow defendants to
present “additional evidence” when an
individual’s test score is between 70 and 75, ante, at
20;[2] and 19 States have
abolished the death penalty or have long suspended its operation.
Ante, at 14. From these numbers, the Court concludes that “in
41 States” a defendant “with an IQ score of 71”
would “not be deemed automatically eligible for the death
penalty.” Ibid.[3] This
analysis is deeply flawed.

															     To begin, in addition
to the 8 other States that the Court recognizes as having rules
similar to Florida’s, 1 more, Idaho, does not appear to
require courts to take the SEM into account in rejecting a claim of
intellectual disability.[4] And
of the remaining 21 States with the death penalty, 9 have either
said nothing about the SEM or have not clarified whether they
require its use.[5]
Accordingly, of the death-penalty states, 10 (including Florida) do
not require that the SEM be taken into account, 12 consider the
SEM, and 9 have not taken a definitive position on this question.
These statistics cannot be regarded as establishing a national
consensus against Florida’s approach.

															     Attempting to
circumvent these statistics, the Court includes in its count the 19
States that never impose the death penalty, but this maneuver
cannot be justified. It is true that the Court has counted
non-death-penalty States in some prior Eighth Amendment cases, but
those cases concerned the substantive question whether a class of
individuals should be categorically ineligible for the death
penalty. In Roper v. Simmons, 543 U. S. 551 (2005) , for
example, the Court counted non-death-penalty States as part of the
consensus against the imposition of a capital sentence for a crime
committed by a minor. Id., at 574. The Court reasoned that a
State’s decision to abolish the death penalty necessarily
“demonstrates a judgment that the death penalty is
inappropriate for all offenders, including juveniles.”
Ibid.

															     No similar reasoning is
possible here. The fact that a State has abolished the death
penalty says nothing about how that State would resolve the
evidentiary problem of identifying defendants who are
intellectually disabled. As I explain below, a State may reasonably
conclude that Florida’s approach is fairer than and just as
accurate as the approach that the Court now requires, and therefore
it cannot be inferred that a non-death-penalty State, if forced to
choose between the two approaches, would necessarily select the
Court’s. For all these reasons, it is quite wrong for the
Court to proclaim that “the vast majority of States”
have rejected Florida’s approach. Ante, at 16.

															     Not only are the States
divided on the question whether the SEM should play a role in
determining whether a capital defendant is intellectually disabled,
but the States that require consideration of the SEM do not agree
on the role that the SEM should play. Those States differ, for
example, on the sort of evidence that can be introduced when IQ
testing reveals an IQ over 70. Some require further evidence of
intellectual deficits, while others permit the defendant to move on
to the second prong of the test and submit evidence of deficits in
adaptive behavior.[6] The
fairest assessment of the current situation is that the States have
adopted a multitude of approaches to a very difficult question.

															     In light of all this,
the resolution of this case should be straightforward: Just as
there was no methodological consensus among the States at the time
of Atkins, there is no such consensus today. And in the absence of
such a consensus, we have no basis for holding that Florida’s
method contravenes our society’s standards of decency.

															C

															     Perhaps because it
recognizes the weakness of its arguments about a true national
consensus, the Court places heavy reliance on the views (some only
recently announced) of professional organizations, but the Court
attempts to downplay the degree to which its decision is dependent
upon the views of these private groups. In a game attempt to
shoehorn the views of these associations into the
national-consensus calculus, the Court reasons as follows. The
views of these associations, the Court states, help in determining
“how [IQ] scores relate to the holding in Atkins”;
“[t]his in turn leads to a better understanding of how the
legislative policies of various States, and the holdings of state
courts, implement the Atkins rule”; and “[t]hat
understanding informs our determination whether there is a
consensus that instructs how to decide the specific issue presented
here.” Ante, at 7.

															     I cannot follow the
Court’s logic. Under our modern Eighth Amendment cases, what
counts are our society’s standards—which is to say, the
standards of the American people—not the standards of
professional associations, which at best represent the views of a
small professional elite.

															     The Court also
mistakenly suggests that its methodol-ogy is dictated by Atkins.
See ante, at 16–19. On the con-trary, Atkins expressly left
“to the States” the task of defining intellectual
disability. And although the Atkins Court perceived a
“professional consensus” about the best procedure to be
used in identifying the intellectually dis-abled, the Atkins Court
declined to import that view intothe law. 536 U. S., at 316,
n. 21. Instead, the Court made clear that this professional
consensus was “by no means dispositive.” Id., at 317,
n. 21; see id., at 317, and n. 22.

															D

															     The Court’s
reliance on the views of professional associations will also lead
to serious practical problems. I will briefly note a few.

															     First, because the
views of professional associations often change,[7] tying Eighth Amendment law to these views
will lead to instability and continue to fuel pro-tracted
litigation. This danger is dramatically illustrated by the most
recent publication of the APA, on which theCourt relies. This
publication fundamentally alters the first prong of the
longstanding, two-pronged definition of intellectual disability
that was embraced by Atkins and has been adopted by most States. In
this new publication, the APA discards “significantly
subaverage intellectual functioning” as an element of the
intellectual-disability test.[8] Elevating the APA’s current views to
constitutional significance therefore throws into question the
basic approach that Atkins approved and that most of the States
have followed.

															     It is also noteworthy
that changes adopted by professional associations are sometimes
rescinded. For example, in 1992 the AAIDD extended the baseline
“intellectual functioning cutoff” from an “IQ of
70 or below” to a “score of approximately 70 to 75 or
below.” AAIDD 11th ed. 10 (Table 1.3) (boldface deleted); see
2 Kaplan & Sadock’s Comprehensive Textbook of Psychiatry
3449 (B. Sadock, V. Sadock, & P. Ruiz eds., 9th ed. 2009)
(hereinafter Kaplan & Sadock’s). That change
“generated much controversy; by 2000, “only 4 states
used the 1992 AAIDD definition, with 44 states continuing to use
the 1983 definition.” Ibid. And in the 2002 AAIDD, the
baseline “IQ cut-off was changed” back to approximately
“70 or less.” Ibid.

															     Second, the
Court’s approach implicitly calls upon the Judiciary either
to follow every new change in the thinking of these professional
organizations or to judge the validity of each new change. Here,
for example, the Court tacitly makes the judgment that the
diagnostic criteria for intellectual disability that prevailed at
the time when Atkins was decided are no longer legitimate. The
publications that Atkins cited differ markedly from more recent
editions now endorsed by the Court. See 536 U. S., at 308,
n. 3.

															     Third, the
Court’s approach requires the Judiciary to determine which
professional organizations are entitled to special deference. And
what if professional organizations disagree? The Court provides no
guidance for deciding which organizations’ views should
govern.

															     Fourth, the Court binds
Eighth Amendment law to definitions of intellectual disability that
are promulgated for use in making a variety of decisions that are
quite different from the decision whether the imposition of a death
sentence in a particular case would serve a valid penological end.
In a death-penalty case, intellectual functioning is important
because of its correlation with the ability to understand the
gravity of the crime and the purpose of the penalty, as well as the
ability to resist a momentary impulse or the influence of others.
See id., at 318, 320. By contrast, in determining eligibility for
social services, adaptive functioning may be much more important.
Cf. DSM–IV–TR, at xxxvii (clinical
“considerations” may not be “relevant to legal
judgments” that turn on “individual
responsibility”); DSM–5, at 20 (similar). Practical
problems like these call for legislative judgments, not judicial
resolution.

															II

															     Because I find no
consensus among the States, I would not independently assess the
method that Florida has adopted for determining intellectual
disability. But even if it were appropriate for us to look beyond
the evidence of societal standards, I could not conclude that
Florida’s method is unconstitutional. The Court faults
Florida for “tak[ing] an IQ score as final and conclusive
evidence of a defendant’s intellectual capacity” and
for failing to recognize that an IQ score may be imprecise. Ante,
at 10. In my view, however, Florida has adopted a sensible standard
that comports with the longstanding belief that IQ tests are the
best measure of intellectual functioning. And although the Court
entirely ignores this part of the Florida scheme, the State takes
into account the inevitable risk of testing error by permitting
defendants to introduce multiple scores.

															     In contrast, the Court
establishes a standard thatconflates what have long been understood
to be two independent requirements for proving intellectual
disability:(1) significantly subaverage intellectual
functioning and (2) deficits in adaptive behavior. The Court
also mandates use of an alternative method of dealing with the risk
of testing error without any hint that it is more accurate than
Florida’s approach.

															A

															1

															     The first supposed
error that the Court identifies is that Florida “takes an IQ
score” as “conclusive evidence” of intellectual
functioning. Ante, at 10. As an initial matter, one would get the
impression from reading the Court’s opinion that Hall
introduced only one test score (of 71). See ante, at 14. In truth,
the Florida courts considered multiple scores, all above 70, on the
particular IQ test that Hall has dubbed the “gold
standard.” See Brief for Petitioner 50; App.
107–108.[9]
Florida’s statute imposes no limit on the number of IQ scores
that a defendant may introduce, so the Court is simply wrong to
analyze the Florida system as one that views a single IQ score
above 70 as “final and conclusive evidence” that a
defendant does not suffer from subaverage intellectual functioning.
See Brief for Respondent 44 (“Florida’s Rule allows for
multiple evaluations, and if Hall believed a statistical error rate
prevented any of his tests from reflecting his true score, he could
have sought still more testing”).

															     The proper question to
ask, therefore, is whether Flor-ida’s actual approach falls
outside the range of discretionallowed by Atkins. The Court offers
no persuasive reason for concluding that it does. Indeed, the
Court’s opinion never identifies what other evidence of
intellectual functioning it would require Florida to admit. As we
recognized in Atkins, the longstanding practices of the States, and
at least the previous views of professional organizations, seem to
reflect the understanding that IQ scores are the best way to
measure intellectual functioning. See 536 U. S., at
316.[10] Until its most
recent publication, the APA, for example, ranked the severity of
intellectual disability exclusively by IQ scores, necessarily
pinpointing the onset of the disability according to IQ. See
DSM–IV–TR, at 42.

															     We have been presented
with no solid evidence that the longstanding reliance on multiple
IQ test scores as a measure of intellectual functioning is so
unreasonable or outside the ordinary as to be unconstitutional. The
Court has certainly not supplied any such information.

															2

															     If the Court had
merely held that Florida must permit defendants to introduce
additional evidence (whatever that might be) of significantly
subaverage intellectual functioning, its decision would be more
limited in scope. But as I understand the Court’s opinion, it
also holds that when IQ tests reveal an IQ between 71 and 75,
defendants must be allowed to present evidence of deficits in
adaptive behavior—that is, the second prong of the
intellectual-disability test. See ante, at 9–10, 12, 20. That
is a remarkable change in what we took to be a universal
understanding of intellectual disability just 12 years ago.

															     In Atkins, we
instructed that “clinical definitions of mental retardation
require not only [(1)] subaverage intellectual functioning,
but also [(2)] significant limitations in adaptive
skills.” 536 U. S., at 318 (emphasis and alterations
added). That is the approach taken by the vast majority of
States.[11] As the Court
correctly recognizes, most States require “concurrent
deficits” in intellectual functioning and adaptive behavior,
requiring defendants to prove both. Ante, at 8 (emphasis
added).[12]

															     Yet the Court now holds
that when a defendant’s IQ score is as high as 75, a court
must “consider factors indicating whether the person has
deficits in adaptive functioning.” Ante, at 12; see ante, at
9–10, 20. In other words, even when a defendant has failed to
show that he meets the first prong of the well-accepted standard
for intellectual disability (significantly subaverage intellec-tual
functioning), evidence of the second prong (deficits inadaptive
behavior) can establish intellectual disability.

															     The Court offers little
explanation for this sea change. It asserts vaguely that
“[i]t is not sound to view a single factor as dispositive of
a conjunctive and interrelated assessment.” Ante, at 21. But
the Court ignores the fact that deficits in adaptive behavior
cannot be used to establish deficits in mental functioning because
the two prongs are meant to show distinct components of
intellectual disability. “[I]ntellectual functions”
include “reasoning, problem solving, planning, abstract
thinking, judgment, academic learning, and learning from
experience,” while adaptive functioning refers to the ability
“to meet developmental and sociocultural standards for
personal independence and social responsibility.”
DSM–5, at 33. Strong evidence of a deficit in adaptive
behavior does not necessarily demonstrate a deficit in intellectual
functioning. And without the latter, a person simply cannot be
classified as intellectually disabled.

															     It is particularly
troubling to relax the proof requirements for the
intellectual-functioning prong because that is the prong that most
directly relates to the concerns that led to our primary holding in
Atkins. There, we explained that “the diminished ability to
understand and process information, to learn from experience, to
engage in logical reasoning, or to control
impulses”—i.e., diminished intellectual
functioning—“make it less likely that [a defendant] can
process the information of the possibility of execution as a
penalty” and therefore be deterred from committing murders.
536 U. S., at 320; see also id., at 318 (“[T]hey often
act on impulse rather than pursuant to a premeditated plan
. . .”); see also ante, at 6. A defendant who does
not display significantly subaverage intellectual functioning is
therefore not among the class of defendants we identified in
Atkins.

															     Finally, relying
primarily on proof of adaptive deficits will produce inequities in
the administration of capital punishment. As far as I can tell,
adaptive behavior is a malleable factor without “firm
theoretical and empirical roots.” See 2 Kaplan &
Sadock’s 3448. No consensus exists among States or medical
practitioners about what facts are most critical in analyzing that
factor, and its measurement relies largely on subjective judgments.
Florida’s approach avoids the disparities that reliance on
such a factor tends to produce. It thus promotes consistency in the
application of the death penalty and confidence that it is not
being administered haphazardly.

															B

															     The Court’s
second “interrelated” objection to Florida’s rule
is that it fails to account for the risk of error inherent in IQ
testing. In order to diminish this risk, the Court establishes a
rule that if IQ testing reveals an IQ between 71 and 75, a claim of
intellectual disability cannot be rejected on the basis of test
scores alone. Ante, at 20. The Court both misunderstands how the
SEM works and fails to explain why Florida’s method of
accounting for the risk of error (allowing a defendant to take and
rely on multiple tests) is not as effective as the approach that
the Court compels.

															1

															     The Court begins with
the simple and uncontroversial proposition that every testing
situation is susceptible to error and thus may result in an
imperfect measurement of “true” IQ. The Court then
wades into technical matters that must be understood in order to
see where the Court goes wrong.

															     There are various ways
to account for error in IQ testing. One way is Florida’s
approach (evaluate multiple test results). Another is to use a
mathematical measurement called the “standard error of
measurement” or SEM. See AAMR 10th ed. 67–71 (App.
4.1). Of critical importance, there is not a single, uniform SEM
across IQ tests or even across test-takers. Rather, “the
[SEM] varies by test, subgroup, and age group.” User’s
Guide To Accompany AAIDD 11th ed.: Definition, Classification, and
Systems of Supports 22 (2012).

															     Once we know the SEM
for a particular test and a particular test-taker, adding one SEM
to and subtracting one SEM from the obtained score establishes an
interval of scores known as the 66% confidence interval. See AAMR
10th ed. 57. That interval represents the range of scores within
which “we are [66%] sure” that the “true”
IQ falls. See Oxford Handbook of Child Psychological Assessment 291
(D. Saklofske, C. Reynolds, & V. Schwean eds. 2013). The
interval is centered on the obtained score, and it includes scores
that are above and below that score by the amount of the SEM. Since
there is about a 66% chance that the test-taker’s
“true” IQ falls within this range, there is about a 34%
chance that the “true” IQ falls outside the interval,
with approximately equal odds that it falls above the interval
(17%) or below the interval (17%).

															     An example: If a
test-taker scores a 72 on an IQ test with a SEM of 2, the 66%
confidence interval is the range of 70 to 74 (72 ± 2). In
this situation, there is approximately a 66% chance that the
test-taker’s “true” IQ is between 70 and 74;
roughly a 17% chance that it is above 74; and roughly a 17% chance
that it is 70 or below. Thus, there is about an 83% chance that the
score is above 70.

															     Similarly, using two
SEMs, we can build a 95% confidence interval. The process is the
same except that we add two SEMs to and subtract two SEMS from the
obtained score. To illustrate the use of two SEMs, let us
hypothesize a case in which the defendant’s obtained score is
74. With the same SEM of 2 as in the prior example, there would be
a 95% chance that the true score is between 70 and 78 (74 ±
4); roughly a 2.5% chance that the score is above 78; and about a
2.5% chance that the score is 70 or below. The probability of a
true score above 70 would be roughly 97.5%. As these two examples
show, the greater the degree of confidence demanded, the greater
the range of scores that will fall within the confidence interval
and, therefore, the further away from 70 an obtained score could be
and yet still have 70 fall within its confidence interval.

															2

															     The Court
misunderstands these principles and makes factual mistakes that
will surely confuse States attempting to comply with its
opinion.

															     First, the Court
unjustifiably assumes a blanket (or very common) error measurement
of 5. See ante, at 20. That assumption gives rise to the
Court’s holding that a defendant must be permitted to
introduce additional evidence when IQ tests reveal an IQ as high as
75. See ibid. SEMs, however, vary by IQ test and test-taker, and
there is no reason to assume a SEM of 5 points; indeed, it appears
that the SEM is generally “estimated to be three to five
points” for well-standardized IQ tests. AAMR 10th ed. 57. And
we know that the SEM for Hall’s most recent IQ test was
2.16—less than half of the Court’s estimate of 5. Brief
for Petitioner 40, n. 17.

															     Relatedly, the Court
misreads the authorities on which it relies to establish this
cutoff IQ score of 75. It is true that certain professional
organizations have advocated a cutoff of 75 and that Atkins cited
those organizations’ cutoff. See ante, at 12, 20. But the
Court overlooks a critical fact: Those organizations endorsed a 75
IQ cutoff based on their express understanding that “one
standard error of measurement [SEM]” is “three to five
points for well-standardized” IQ tests. AAMR, Mental
Retardation 37 (9th ed. 1992) (hereinafter AAMR 9th ed.); Atkins,
536 U. S., 309, n. 5 (citing AAMR 9th ed.; 2 Kaplan &
Sadock’s 2592 (B. Sadock & V. Sadock eds., 7th ed.
2000)); see also AAMR 10th ed. 57; AAIDD 11th ed. 36. In other
words, the number 75 was relevant only to the extent that a single
SEM was “estimated” to be as high as 5 points. AAMR 9th
ed. 37. Here, by contrast, we know that the SEM for Hall’s
latest IQ test was less than half of that estimate; there is no
relevance to the number 75 in this case. To blindly import a
five-point margin of error when we know as a matter of fact that
the relevant SEM is 2.16 amounts to requiring consideration of more
than two SEMs—an approach that finds no support in Atkins or
anywhere else.

															     Because of these
factual errors and ambiguities, it is unclear to me whether the
Court concludes that a defendant is constitutionally entitled to
introduce non-test evidence of intellectual disability (1) whenever
his score is 75 or lower, on the mistaken understanding that the
SEM for most tests is 5; (2) when the 66% confidence interval
(using one SEM) includes a score of 70; or (3) when the 95%
confidence interval (using two SEMs) includes a score of 70. In my
view, none of these approaches is defensible.

															     An approach tied to a
fixed score of 75 can be dismissed out of hand because, as
discussed, every test has a different SEM.

															     The other two
approaches would require that a defendant be permitted to submit
additional evidence when his IQ is above 70 so long as the 66% or
95% confidence interval (using one SEM or two SEMs, respectively)
includes a score of 70, but there is no foundation for this in our
Eighth Amendment case law. As Hall concedes, the Eighth Amendment
permits States to assign to a defendant the burden of establishing
intellectual disability by at least a preponderance of the
evidence. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 12. In other words, a defendant can
be required to prove that the probability of a 70 or sub-70 IQ is
greater than 50%. Under the Court’s approach, by contrast, a
defendant could prove significantly subaverage intellectual
functioning by showing simply that the probability of a
“true” IQ of 70 or below is as little as 17% (under a
one-SEM rule) or 2.5% (under a two-SEM rule). This totally
transforms the allocation and nature of the burden of proof.

															     I have referred to the
66% and 95% confidence intervals only because they result from the
most straightforward application of the SEM in this context: One
SEM establishes the 66% confidence interval; two SEMs establish the
95% confidence interval. See AAIDD 11th ed. 36. But it would be
simple enough to devise a 51% confidence interval—or a 99%
confidence interval for that matter. There is therefore no excuse
for mechanically imposing standards that are unhinged from legal
logic and that over-ride valid state laws establishing burdens of
proof. The appropriate confidence level is ultimately a judgment
best left to legislatures, and their judgment has been that a
defendant must establish that it is more likely than not that he is
intellectually disabled. I would defer to that determination.

															3

															     The Court also fails
to grasp that Florida’s system already accounts for the risk
of testing error by allowing the introduction of multiple test
scores. The Court never explains why its criticisms of the
uncertainty resulting from the use of a single IQ score apply when
a defendant consistently scores above 70 on multiple tests.
Contrary to the Court’s evident assumption, the well-accepted
view is that multiple consistent scores establish a much higher
degree of confidence.[13]

															     The Court’s only
attempt to address this is to say that “the analysis of
multiple IQ scores jointly is a complicated endeavor,” ante,
at 11, but any evaluation of intellectual disability, whether based
on objective tests or subjective observations, is
“complicated.” If conducting the proper analysis of
multiple scores produces an IQ as reliable as the approach mandated
by the Court, there is no basis for rejecting Florida’s
approach.[14]

															*  *  *

															     For these reasons, I
would affirm the judgment of the Florida Supreme Court.

Notes
1
 See, , American
Association of Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (AAIDD),
Intellectual Disability 10–11 (11th ed. 2010) (hereinafter
AAIDD 11th ed.) (cataloguing history of IQ “cutoff
criteria” since 1959). Earlier publications of the AAIDD were
published under its former name, the American Association on Mental
Retardation (hereinafter AAMR).
2
 I assume that by
“additional evidence” the Court means evidence other
than further IQ testing because Florida’s rule already
“allows for multiple evaluations, and . . .
[petitioner] could have sought still more testing.” Brief for
Respondent 44. See also Brief for Petitioner 50; App.
107–108.
3
 As I discuss below, the
Florida Supreme Court did not base its decision on a finding that
Hall’s IQ was 71. The Florida courts considered several IQ
scores, all above 70. See App. 107–108; Brief for Petitioner
50.
4
 See Idaho Code
§19–2515A(1)(b) (Lexis Cum. Supp. 2013); v. , 146 Idaho
720, 729, 202 P. 3d 642, 651 (2008) (stating that “the
legislature did not require that the IQ score be within five points
of 70 or below” and giving the District Court discretion to
interpret the defendant’s IQ).
5
 Montana, New Hampshire,
and Wyoming have not ruled on the subject. Two States have not
defined “significantly subaverage” intellectual
functioning. See Colo. Rev. Stat. Ann.
§18–1.3–1101(2) (2013); S. C. Code Ann.
§16–3–20 (2003 and 2013 Cum. Supp.); v., 356
S. C. 276, 278–279, 588 S. E. 2d 604, 605 (2003) (.
Two States have statutes that impose rebuttable presumptions of
intellectual disability if a defendant’s IQ is below 65 or 70
but have not said whether a defendant would be allowed to provide
further evidence if his IQ were over 70. See Ark. Code Ann.
§5–4–618 (2013); Neb. Rev. Stat.
§28–105.01 (2013 Supp.). One State’s Supreme Court
mentioned measurement errors but only to explain why a defendant
must prove deficits in adaptive behavior despite having an IQ below
70. See v. , 261 Ga. 1, 3, 401 S. E. 2d 500, 504 (1991). Another
State’s Supreme Court mentioned the SEM in responding to an
argument by the defendant, but it did not suggest that the SEM was
legally relevant. See v., 191 S. W. 3d 20, 30–31, and
n. 7 (Mo. 2006).
6
 Compare v. , 127 Nev.
___, ___, 247 P. 3d 269, 274 (2011), with v. , 2001–1635, pp.
25–26 (La. 5/11/10), 41 So. 3d 454, 470.
7
 See Forensic Psychology
and Neuropsychology for Criminal and Civil Cases 57 (H. Hall ed.
2008) (hereinafter Forensic Psychology).
8
 Compare APA, Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 39, 41, 42 (rev. 4th
ed. 2000) (hereinafter DSM–IV–TR), with APA,
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 33, 809 (5th
ed. 2013) (hereinafter DSM–5).
9
 See Brief for Petitioner
50 (listing his valid IQ scores of 71, 72, 73, and 80). Hall
alleges that he also scored a 69 on a Wechsler test, but that score
was not admitted into evidence because of doubts about its
validity. App. 107. Hall does not allege that any potential
“practice effect” skewed his scores.
10  See
AAIDD 11th ed. 10 (cataloguing history of IQ “cutoff
criteria” since 1959); DSM–IV–TR, at 39
(“Mental Retardation” is “characterized by
significantly subaverage intellectual functioning (an IQ of
approximately 70 or below) . . .” (boldface
deleted)); at 41 (“General intellectual functioning is
defined by the intelligence quotient . . .”
(italics deleted)); AAMR, Mental Retardation 14 (10th ed. 2002)
(hereinafter AAMR 10th ed.) (“[I]ntellectual functioning is
still best represented by IQ
scores . . .”).
11  See,
, Del. Code Ann., Tit. 11, §4209 (2007); Idaho Code
§19–2515A; Nev. Rev. Stat. §174.098 (2013); Va.
Code Ann. §19.2–264.3:1.1 (Lexis Cum. Supp.
2013).
12  The
longstanding views of professional organizations have also been
that intellectual functioning and adaptive behavior are independent
factors. See, ., DSM–IV–TR, at 39. These organizations
might recommend examining evidence of adaptive behavior even when
an IQ is above 70, but that sheds no light on what the rule should
be given that most States appear to require defendants to prove
each prong separately by a preponderance of the
evidence.
13  See
Oxford Handbook of Child Psychological Assessment 291(D. Saklofske,
C. Reynolds, & V. Schwean eds. 2013) (multiple scoresprovide
“greater precision”); A. Frances, Essentials of
Psychiatric Diagnosis: Responding to the Challenge of DSM–5,
p. 31 (rev. ed. 2013) (“The pattern of test scores is more
important than the score on any given test”). When there are
multiple scores, moreover, there is good reason to treat low scores
differently from high scores: “Although one cannot do better
on an IQ test than one is capable of doing, one can certainly do
worse.” Forensic Psychology 56. (“[A] sharp,
unexplained drop in IQ scores following incarceration can be strong
evidence of malingering”); Frances, at 31 (“[H]igher
scores are likely to be the more indicative, since there are many
reasons why a given score might underestimate a person’s
intelligence, but no reason why scores should overestimate
it”).
14  The
Court also states that because IQ testing itself may be flawed,
“multiple examinations may result in repeated similar
scores” that are “not conclusive evidence of
intellectual functioning.” , at 12. That argument proves too
much: If potential flaws in administering multiple tests are
sufficient to render them inaccurate, the Court should conclude
that even scores of 90 or 100 are not sufficient. The appropriate
remedy for incorrectly administered tests is for a court to
disregard those tests, not to ignore the well-established fact that
multiple, prop-erly administered tests yielding scores above 70 can
give a high degree of confidence that an individual is not
intellectually disabled.


