::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-027
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 25 (2014)
::decision_name::  BG Group plc v. Republic of Argentina
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–138

															_________________

															BG GROUP plc, PETITIONER v. REPUBLIC
OFARGENTINA

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit

															[March 5, 2014]

															

															     Justice Sotomayor,
concurring in part.

															     I agree with the Court
that the local litigation requirement at issue in this case is a
procedural precondition to arbitration (which the arbitrators are
to interpret), not a condition on Argentina’s consent to
arbitrate (which a court would review de novo). Ante, at 8,
14. Importantly, in reaching this conclusion, the Court
acknowledges that “the treaty before us does not state that
the local litiga-tion requirement is a ‘condition of
consent’ to arbitration.” Ante, at 12. The Court thus
wisely “leave[s] for another day the question of interpreting
treaties that refer to ‘conditions of consent’
explicitly.” Ibid. I join the Court’s opinion on the
understanding that it does not, in fact, de-cide this issue.

															     I write separately
because, in the absence of this express reservation, the opinion
might be construed otherwise. The Court appears to suggest in
dictum that a decision by treaty parties to describe a condition as
one on their consent to arbitrate “is unlikely to be
conclusive” in deciding whether the parties intended for the
condition to be resolved by a court. Ante, at 11. Because this
suggestion is unnecessary to decide the case and is in tension with
the Court’s explicit reservation of the issue, I join the
opinion of the Court with the exception of Part
IV–A–1.

															     The Court’s
dictum on this point is not only unnecessary; it may also be
incorrect. It is far from clear that a treaty’s express use
of the term “consent” to describe a precondition to
arbitration should not be conclusive in the analysis. We have held,
for instance, that “a gateway dispute about whether the
parties are bound by a given arbitration clause raises a
‘question of arbitrability’ for a court to
decide.” Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., 537 U. S.
79, 84 (2002) . And a party plainly cannot be bound by an
arbitration clause to which it does not consent. See Granite Rock
Co. v. Teamsters, 561 U. S. 287, 299 (2010)
(“Arbitration is strictly ‘a matter of
consent’ ” (quoting Volt Information Sciences,
Inc. v. Board of Trust-ees of Leland Stanford Junior Univ., 489
U. S. 468, 479 (1989) ).

															     Consent is especially
salient in the context of a bilateral investment treaty, where the
treaty is not an already agreed-upon arbitration provision between
known parties, but rather a nation state’s standing offer to
arbitrate with an amorphous class of private investors. In this
setting, a nation-state might reasonably wish to condition its
consent to arbitrate with a previously unspecified investor
counterparty on the investor’s compliance with a requirement
that might be deemed “purely procedural” in the
ordinary commercial context, ante, at 9. Moreover, as The Chief
Justice notes, “[i]t is no trifling matter” for a
sovereign nation to “subject itself to international
arbitration” proceedings, so we should “not presume
that any country . . . takes that step lightly.”
Post, at 9 (dissenting opinion).

															     Consider, for example,
the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement, which as the Court
recognizes, ante, at 12–13, includes a provision explicitly
entitled “Conditions and Limitations on Consent of Each
Party.” Art. 11.18, Feb. 10, 2011. That provision declares
that “[n]o claim may be submitted to arbitration”
unless a claimant first waives its “right to initiate or
continue before any administrative tribunal or court
. . . any proceeding with respect to any measure alleged
to constitute a breach” under another provision of the
treaty. Ibid. If this waiver con-dition were to appear without the
“consent” label in a binding arbitration agreement
between two commercial parties, one might characterize it as the
kind of procedural “ ‘condition precedent to
arbitrability’ ” that we presume parties intend
for arbitrators to decide. Howsam, 537 U. S., at 85. But where
the waiver requirement is ex-pressly denominated a “condition
on consent” in an interna-tional investment treaty, the label
could well be critical in determining whether the states party to
the treaty in-tended the condition to be reviewed by a court. After
all, a dispute as to consent is “the starkest form of the
question whether the parties have agreed to arbitrate.” Post,
at 13. And we ordinarily presume that parties intend for courts to
decide such questions because otherwise arbitrators might
“force unwilling parties to arbitrate a matter they
reasonably would have thought a judge . . . would
decide.” First Options of Chicago, Inc. v. Kaplan, 514 U. S.
938, 945 (1995) .

															     Accordingly, if the
local litigation requirement at issue here were labeled a condition
on the treaty parties’ “consent” to arbitrate,
that would in my view change the analysis as to whether the parties
intended the requirement to be interpreted by a court or an
arbitrator. As it is, how-ever, all parties agree that the local
litigation requirement is not so denominated. See Agreement for the
Promotion and Protection of Investments, Art. 8(2), Dec. 11, 1990,
1765 U. N. T. S. 38. Nor is there compelling reason to suppose the
parties silently intended to make it a condition on their consent
to arbitrate, given that a local court’s decision is of no
legal significance under the treaty, ante, at 8–9, and given
that the entire purpose of bilateral investment agreements is to
“reliev[e] investors of any concern that the courts of host
countries will be unable or unwilling to provide justice in a
dispute between a foreigner and their own government,” Brief
for Professors and Practitioners of Arbitration Law as Amici Curiae
6. Moreover, Argentina’s conduct confirms that the local
litigation requirement is not a condition on consent, for rather
than objecting to arbitration on the ground that there was no
binding arbitration agreement to begin with, Argentina actively
participated in the constitution of the arbitral panel and in the
proceedings that followed. See Eastern Airlines, Inc. v. Floyd, 499
U. S. 530, 546 (1991) (treaty interpretation can be informed
by parties’ postenactment conduct).[1]

															     In light of these many
indicators that Argentina and the United Kingdom did not intend the
local litigation requirement to be a condition on their consent to
arbitrate, and on the understanding that the Court does not pass on
the weight courts should attach to a treaty’s use of the term
“consent,” I concur in the Court’s opinion.

Notes
1
The dissent discounts the
significance of Argentina’s conduct on the ground that
Argentina “object[ed] to the [arbitral] tribunal’s
jurisdiction to hear the dispute.” at 16, n. 2. But
there is a difference between arguing that a party has failed to
comply with a procedural condition in a binding arbitration
agreement and arguing that noncompliance with the condition negates
the existence of consent to arbitrate in the first place. Argentina
points to no evidence that its objection was of the consent
variety. This omission is notable because Argentina knew how to
phrase its arguments before the arbitrators in terms of consent; it
argued separately that it had not consented to arbitration with BG
Group on the ground that BG was not a party to the license
underlying the dispute. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 182a–186a.
v. , , is not to the contrary, as that case held that
“arguing the arbitrability issue to an arbitrator” did
not constitute “clea[r] and unmistakabl[e]” evidence
sufficient to override an indisputably applicable presumption that
a court was to decide whether the parties had agreed to
arbitration. ,at 944, 946. The question here, by contrast, is
whether that presumption attaches to begin with—that is,
whether the local litigation requirement was a condition on
Argentina’s consent to arbitrate (which would trigger the
presumption) or a procedural condition in an already binding
arbitration agreement (which would not). That Argentina ap-parently
took the latter position in arbitration is surely relevant
evi-dence that the condition was, in fact, not one on its
consent.


