::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-053
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 844 (2014)
::decision_name::  Bond v. United States
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Thomas
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–158

															_________________

															CAROL ANNE BOND, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the third circuit

															[June 2, 2014]

															

															     Justice Thomas, with
whom Justice Scalia joins, and with whom Justice Alito joins as to
Parts I, II, and III, concurring in the judgment.

															     By its clear terms, the
statute at issue in this case regulates local criminal conduct that
is subject to the powers reserved to the States. See ante, at
1–2 (Scalia, J., concurring in judgment). That aggrandizement
of federal power cannot be justified as a “necessary and
proper” means of implementing a treaty addressing similar
subject matter. See ante, at 8–9. To the contrary, reading
the Necessary and Proper Clause to expand Congress’ power
upon the ratification of every new treaty defies an indisputable
first principle of our constitutional order:
“ ‘[T]he Constitution created a Federal Government
of limited powers.’ ” New York v. United States,
505 U. S. 144, 155 (1992) (quoting Gregory v. Ashcroft, 501
U. S. 452, 457 (1991) ). I accordingly join Justice
Scalia’s opinion in full.

															     I write separately to
suggest that the Treaty Power is itself a limited federal power.
Cf. United States v. Lopez, 514 U. S. 549, 584 (1995) (Thomas,
J., concurring) (“[W]e always have rejected readings of
. . . the scope of federal power that would permit
Congress to exercise a police power”). The Constitution
empowers the President, “by and with the Advice and Consent
of the Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the
Senators present concur.” Art. II, §2. The
Constitution does not, however, comprehensively define the proper
bounds of the Treaty Power, and this Court has not yet had occasion
to do so. As a result, some have suggested that the Treaty Power is
boundless—that it can reach any subject matter, even those
that are of strictly domestic concern. See, e.g., Restatement
(Third) of Foreign Relations Law of the United States, §302,
Comment c (1986). A number of recent treaties reflect that
suggestion by regulating what appear to be purely domestic affairs.
See, e.g., Bradley, The Treaty Power and American Federalism, 97
Mich. L. Rev. 390, 402–409 (1998) (hereinafter Bradley)
(citing examples).

															     Yet to interpret the
Treaty Power as extending to every conceivable domestic subject
matter—even matters without any nexus to foreign
relations—would destroy the basic constitutional distinction
between domestic and foreign powers. See United States v.
Curtiss-Wright Export Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 319 (1936)
(“[T]he federal power over external affairs [is] in origin
and essential character different from that over internal affairs
. . .”). It would also lodge in the Federal
Government the potential for “a ‘police power’
over all aspects of American life.” Lopez, supra, at 584
(Thomas, J., concurring). A treaty-based power of that
magnitude—no less than a plenary power of
legislation—would threaten
“ ‘ “the liberties that derive from the
diffusion of sovereign power.” ’ ” Bond
v. United States, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at 9).
And a treaty-based police power would pose an even greater threat
when exercised through a self-executing treaty because it would
circumvent the role of the House of Representatives in the
legislative process. See The Federalist No. 52, p. 355 (J. Cooke
ed. 1961) (J. Madison) (noting that the House has a more
“immediate dependence on, & an intimate sympathy with the
people”).

															     I doubt the Treaty
Power creates such a gaping loophole in our constitutional
structure. Although the parties have not challenged the
constitutionality of the particular treaty at issue here, in an
appropriate case I believe the Court should address the scope of
the Treaty Power as it was originally understood. Today, it is
enough to highlight some of the structural and historical evidence
suggesting that the Treaty Power can be used to arrange intercourse
with other nations, but not to regulate purely domestic
affairs.

															I

															     The Treaty Power was
not drafted on a blank slate. To the contrary, centuries of
experience—reflected in treatises, dictionaries, and actual
practice—shaped the contours of that power.

															     Early treatises
discussed a wide variety of treaties that nevertheless shared a
common thread: All of them governed genuinely international matters
such as war, peace, and trade between nations. See, e.g., 2 H.
Grotius, De Jure Belli Ac Pacis 394–396 (1646 ed., F. Kelsey
transl. 1925) (treaties are made “for the sake either of
peace or of some alliance,” including “for the
restoration of captives and of captured property, and for
safety”; “that neither signatory shall have fortresses
in the territory of the other, or defend the subjects of the other,
or furnish a passage to the enemy of the other”; and for
“commercial relations” and agreements on “import
duties” (footnote omitted)); 2 S. Pufendorf, De Jure Naturae
et Gentium 1331 (1688 ed., C. Oldfather & W. Oldfather transls.
1934) (treaties are made “to form some union or society, the
end of which is either commercial relations, or a united front in
war”); 3 E. Vattel, The Law of Nations 165 (1758 ed., C.
Fenwick transl. 1916) (treaties, which “can be subdivided
into as many classes as there are varieties in the character of
national relations,” “deal with conditions of commerce,
with mutual defense, with belligerent relations, with rights of
passage, . . . stipulations not to fortify certain
places, etc.”).

															     Founding-era
dictionaries reflect a similar understanding. To be sure, some
early dictionaries briefly defined “treaty” simply as a
“compact of accommodation relating to public affairs.”
See, e.g., 2 S. Johnson, A Dictionary of the English Language 2056
(rev. 4th ed. 1773). More detailed definitions, however, recognized
the particular character of treaties as addressing matters of
intercourse between nations rather than domestic regulation. See,
e.g., J. Buchanan, A New English Dictionary (1769) (defining
“treaty” as “[a] covenant or agreement between
several nations for peace, commerce, navigation, &c.”);
N. Bailey, An Universal Etymological English Dictionary (26th ed.
1789) (same); J. Montefiore, A Commercial Dictionary (1803) (noting
“treaties of alliance” for military aid;
“treaties of subsidy” for the provision of soldiers;
treaties of navigation and commerce; treaties governing fishing and
timber rights; and treaties on import duties); 2 N. Webster, An
American Dictionary of the English Language 97 (1828) (noting
“treaties for regulating commercial intercourse, treaties of
alliance, offensive and defensive, treaties for hiring troops,
[and] treaties of peace”).

															     Treaty practice under
the Articles of Confederation was also consistent with the
understanding that treaties govern matters of international
intercourse. The Articles provided: “The United States in
Congress assembled, shall have the sole and exclusive right and
power of . . . entering into treaties and alliances
. . . .” Art. IX. The Congress of the
Confederation exercised that power by making treaties that fell
squarely within the traditional scope of the power. See, e.g.,
Treaty with the Cherokee, Art. IV, Nov. 28,1785, 7Stat. 19, 2
C. Kappler, Indian Affairs: Laws and Treaties 9 (1904) (territorial
borders); Definitive Treaty of Peace, U. S.-Gr. Brit.,
Art. VII, Sept. 3, 1783, 8Stat. 83, T. S. No. 104
(peace); Contract for the Payment of Loans, U. S.-Fr., Arts.
I–IV, July 16, 1782, 8Stat. 614–615, T. S. No.
831∕4 (repayment of sovereign debt); Definitive Treaty of
Peace, U. S.-Gr. Brit., Art. III, Sept. 3, 1783, 8Stat.
82, T. S. No. 104 (fishery rights in disputed waters); Treaty
of Amity and Commerce, U. S.-Prussia, Arts. IV–IX, Sept.
10, 1785, 8Stat. 86–88, T. S. No. 292 (treatment of vessels
in a treaty partners’ waters); Convention Defining and
Establishing the Functions and Privileges of Consuls and
Vice-Consuls, U. S.-Fr., Arts. I–III, Nov. 14, 1788,
8Stat. 106–108, T. S. No. 84 (privileges and immunities of
diplomatic officials); Treaty of Amity and Commerce,
U. S.-Swed., Arts. III–IV, Apr. 3, 1783, 8Stat. 60, T.
S. No. 346 (rights of citizens of one treaty partner residing in
the territory of the other).

															     These treaties entered
into under the Articles of Confederation would not have suggested
to the Framers that granting a power to “make Treaties”
included authorization to regulate purely domestic matters.
Whenever these treaties affected legal rights within United States
territory, they addressed only rights that related to foreign
sub-jects or foreign property. See, e.g., Treaty of Amity and
Commerce, U. S.-Neth., Art. IV, Oct. 8, 1782, 8Stat. 34
(affording burial rights “when any subjects or inhabitants of
either party shall die in the territory of the other”);
Treaty with the Cherokee, Art. VII, 7Stat. 19, 2 Kappler,
supra, at 10 (“If any citizen of the United States
. . . shall commit a robbery or murder, or other capital
crime, on any Indian, such offender or offenders shall be punished
in the same manner as if [the crime] had been committed on a
citizen of the United States . . .”); Convention
Relative to Recaptured Vessels, U. S.-Neth., Oct. 8, 1782,
8Stat. 50, T. S. No. 250 (“The vessells of either of the two
nations re-captured by the privateers of the other, shall be
restored to the first proprietor . . .”).
Preconstitutional practice therefore reflects the use of the
treaty-making power only for matters of international intercourse;
that practice provides no support for using treaties to regulate
purely domestic affairs.

															II

															A

															     Debates preceding the
ratification of the proposed Constitution confirm the limited scope
of the powers possessed by the Federal Government generally; the
Treaty Power was no exception. The Framers understood that most
regulatory matters were to be left to the States. See The
Federalist No. 45, at 313 (J. Madison) (“The powers delegated
by the proposed Constitution to the Federal Government, are few and
defined”); see also Lopez, 514 U. S., at 590–592
(Thomas, J., concurring) (citing sources). Consistent with that
general understanding of limited federal power, evidence from the
ratification campaign suggests that the Treaty Power was limited
and, in particular, confined to matters of intercourse with other
nations.

															     In essays during the
ratification campaign in New York, James Madison took the view that
the Treaty Power was inherently limited. The Federal
Government’s powers, Madison wrote, “will be exercised
principally on external objects, as war, peace, negotiation, and
foreign commerce”—the traditional subjects of
treaty-making. The Federalist No. 45, at 313. If the
“external” Treaty Power contained a capacious domestic
regulatory authority, that would plainly conflict with
Madison’s firm understanding that “[t]he powers
delegated by the proposed Constitution to the Federal Government,
are few and defined.” Ibid. Madison evidently saw no
conflict, however, because the Treaty Power included authority to
“regulate the intercourse with foreign nations” rather
than all domestic affairs. Id., No. 42, at 279.

															     Madison reiterated that
understanding at the 1788 Virginia ratifying convention, where the
most extensive discussion of the proposed Treaty Power occurred,
see Bradley 410; Golove, Treaty-Making and the Nation, 98 Mich.
L. Rev. 1075, 1141–1142 (2000) (hereinafter Golove).
There, Anti-Federalists leveled the charge that the Treaty Power
gave the Federal Government excessive power. See, e.g., 3 Debates
on the Federal Constitution 509 (J. Elliot 2d ed. 1876)
(hereinafter Elliot’s Debates) (G. Mason) (“The
President and Senate can make any treaty whatsoever”); id.,
at 513 (P. Henry) (“To me this power appears still
destructive; for they can make any treaty”). But Madison
insisted that just “because this power is given to
Congress,” it did not follow that the Treaty Power was
“absolute and unlimited.” Id., at 514. The President
and the Senate lacked the power “to dismember the
empire,” for example, because “[t]he exercise of the
power must be consistent with the object of the delegation.”
Ibid. “The object of treaties,” in Madison’s
oft-repeated formulation, “is the regulation of intercourse
with foreign nations, and is external.” Ibid.

															     Although Alexander
Hamilton undoubtedly believed that the Treaty Power was broad
within its proper sphere, see infra, at 8, the view he expressed in
essays during the New York ratification campaign is entirely
consistent with Madison’s. After noting that the Treaty Power
was one of the “most unexceptionable parts” of the
proposed Constitution, Hamilton distinguished the Treaty Power from
the legislative power “to prescribe rules for the regulation
of the society” and from the executive power to
“execut[e] . . . the laws.” The Federalist
No. 75, at 503–504. “The power of making
treaties,” he concluded, “is plainly neither the one
nor the other.” Id., at 504. Rather, Hamilton explained that
treaties “are not rules prescribed by the sovereign to the
subject, but agreements between sovereign and sovereign.”
Id., at 504–505. That description is difficult to square with
a view of the Treaty Power that would allow the Federal Government
to prescribe rules over all aspects of domestic life.

															B

															     It did not escape the
attention of the Framers that the Treaty Power was drafted without
explicitly enumerated limits on what sorts of treaties are
permissible. See, e.g., Hamilton, The Defence No. XXXVI, in 20
Papers of Alexander Hamilton 6 (H. Syrett ed. 1974) (“A power
‘to make treaties,’ granted in these indefinite terms,
extends to all kinds of treaties and with all the latitude which
such a power under any form of Government can possess”). The
Articles of Confederation had, for example, explicitly restricted
certain categories of treaties. See Art. IX(“[N]o treaty
of commerce shall be made whereby the legis-lative power of the
respective States shall be restrained from imposing such imposts
and duties on foreigners, as their own people are subjected to, or
from prohibiting the exportation or importation of any species of
goods or commodities whatsoever”). The Constitution omitted
those restrictions.

															     That decision was not a
grant of unlimited power, but rather a grant of flexibility; the
Federal Government needed the ability to respond to unforeseeable
varieties of intercourse with other nations. James Madison, for
example, did “not think it possible to enumerate all the
cases in which such external regulations would be necessary.”
3 Elliot’s Debates 514; see also id., at 363 (E. Randolph)
(“The various contingencies which may form the object of
treaties, are, in the nature of things, incapable of
definition”). But Madison nevertheless recognized that any
exercise of the Treaty Power “must be consistent with the
object of the delegation,” which is “the regulation of
intercourse with foreign nations.” Id., at 514; see also
Hamilton, The Defence, supra, at 6 (“[W]hatever is a proper
subject of compact between Nation & Nation may be embraced by a
Treaty” (emphasis added)). That understanding of the Treaty
Power did not permit the President and the Senate to exercise
domestic authority commensurate with their substantial power over
external affairs.

															C

															     The understanding
that treaties are limited to, in Madison’s words, “the
regulation of intercourse with foreign nations,” endured in
the years after the Constitution was ratified.

															     In 1796, an extended
debate regarding the proper scope of the Treaty Power arose in the
aftermath of a controversial treaty with Great Britain that
addressed the validity of prerevolutionary debts and the property
rights of British subjects. Treaty of Amity, Commerce and
Navigation, Nov. 19, 1794, 8Stat. 116, T. S. No. 105. When
President Washington requested appropriations to implement that
so-called “Jay Treaty” (after its chief negotiator,
John Jay), the House of Representatives engaged in a month-long
floor debate over its own role in the process of implementing
treaties. See 5 Annals of Cong. 426 (1796); see generally D.
Currie, The Constitution in Congress: The Fed-eralist Period
1789–1801, pp. 211–217 (1997). SomeCongressmen argued
that the House had a right to independently review the merits of
the treaty. See, e.g., 5 Annals of Cong. 427–428 (remarks of
Rep. Livingston) (“[T]he House w[as] vested with a
discretionary power of carrying the Treaty into effect, or refusing
it their sanction”). Others insisted that “if the
Treaty was the supreme law of the land, then there was no
discretionary power in the House, except on the question of its
constitutionality.” Id., at 436–437 (Rep. Murray).

															     That latter group
relied in part on the observation that the Treaty Power was limited
by its nature, and thus the Constitution’s failure to specify
a role for the House did not pose a mortal threat to that
Chamber’s legislative prerogatives. Representative James
Hillhouse of Connecticut expounded that position in the floor
debate. Hillhouse recognized that the House had an
“indispensable duty to look into every Treaty” to
ensure that it is constitutional, i.e., “whether it related
to objects within the province of the Treaty-making power, a power
which is not unlimited.” Id., at 660. He further explained
that “[t]he objects upon which it can operate are understood
and well defined, and if the Treaty-making power were to embrace
other objects, their doings would have no more binding force than
if the Legislature were to assume and exercise judicial powers
under the name of legislation.” Ibid.

															     Hillhouse
“advert[ed] to the general definition of the Treaty-making
power” to explain why the Treaty Power was not a threat to
the House’s legislative prerogatives:

															“[I]f we look into our code of laws,
we shall find few of them that can be affected, to any great
degree, by the Treaty-making power. All laws regulating our own
internal police, so far as the citizens of the United States alone
are concerned, are wholly beyond its reach; no foreign nation
having any interest or concern in that business, every attempt to
interfere would be a mere nullity, as much as if two individuals
were to enter into a contract to regulate the conduct or actions of
a third person, who was no party to such contract.” Id., at
662.

															He accordingly denied that “the President
and Senate hav[e] it in their power, by forming Treaties with an
Indian tribe or a foreign nation, to legislate over the United
States,” concluding instead that the Treaty Power
“cannot affect the Legislative power of Congress but in a
very small and limited degree.” Id., at 663.

															     Other Representatives
who participated in the Jay Treaty debates agreed with Hillhouse
that the Treaty Power had a limited scope. See, e.g., id., at 516
(Rep. Sedgwick) (classifying the uses of the power as “1. To
compose and adjust differences, whether to terminate or to prevent
war. 2. To form contracts for mutual security or defence; or to
make Treaties, offensive or defensive. 3. To regulate an
intercourse for mutual benefit, or to form Treaties of
commerce”). James Madison, who opposed the Jay Treaty as a
Representative from Virginia, also took the opportunity to
reiterate his view that “the Treaty-making power was a
limited power.” Id., at 777.

															     Other historical
evidence from the postratification period is in accord. For
example, Thomas Jefferson’s Senate Manual of Parliamentary
Procedure, drafted while he was Vice President and therefore
president of the Senate, Bradley 415, noted the need for a treaty
to have a nexus to international intercourse. If a treaty did not
“concern the foreign nation, party to the contract,”
then “it would be a mere nullity res inter alias acta.”
Thomas Jefferson’s Senate Manual (1801), in 9 The Writings of
Thomas Jefferson 80–81 (H. Washington ed. 1861). Later,
Justice Story likewise anchored the Treaty Power in intercourse
between nations. J. Story, Commentaries on the Constitution of the
United States 552–553 (abr. ed. 1833). (“The power
‘to make treaties’ is by the constitution general; and
of course it embraces all sorts of treaties, for peace or war; for
commerce or territory; for alliance or succours; for indemnity for
injuries or payment of debts; for the recognition or enforcement of
principles of public law; and for any other purposes, which the
policy or interests of independent sovereigns may dictate in their
intercourse with each other”).

															     The touchstone of all
of these views was that the Treaty Power is limited to matters of
international intercourse. Even if a treaty may reach some local
matters,[1] it still must
relate to intercourse with other nations. The Jay Treaty, for
example, altered state property law, but only with respect to
British subjects, who could hold and devise real property in the
United States “in like manner as if they were natives.”
Art. IX, 8Stat. 122. An 1815 treaty with Great Britain was
held to pre-empt a state law authorizing the seizure of
“ ‘free negroes or persons of
color’ ” at ports in part because the state law
applied to British sailors. See Elkison v. Deliesseline, 8
F. Cas. 493, 495 (No. 4, 366) (CC SC 1823) (Johnson, Circuit
Justice). And treaties with China and Japan, which afforded
subjects of those countries the same rights and privileges as
citizens of other nations, were understood to pre-empt state laws
that discriminated against Chinese and Japanese subjects. See,
e.g., Baker v. Portland, 2 F. Cas. 472, 474 (No. 777) (CC Ore.
1879). Cf. Brief for United States 29, 33–38.

															     The postratification
theory and practice of treaty-making accordingly confirms the
understanding that treaties by their nature relate to intercourse
with other nations (including their people and property), rather
than to purely domestic affairs.

															III

															     The original
understanding that the Treaty Power was limited to international
intercourse has been well represented in this Court’s
precedents. Although we have not had occasion to define the limits
of the power in much detail, we have described treaties as dealing
in some manner with intercourse between nations. See, e.g., Holmes
v. Jennison, 14 Pet. 540, 569 (1840) (“The power to make
treaties . . . was designed to include all those
subjects, which in the ordinary intercourse of nations had usually
been made subjects of negotiation and treaty”); Holden v.
Joy, 17 Wall. 211, 242–243 (1872) (“[T]he framers of
the Constitution intended that [the Treaty Power] should extend to
all those objects which in the intercourse of nations had usually
been regarded as the proper subjects of negotiation and treaty, if
not inconsistent with the nature of our government and the relation
between the States and the United States”). Cf. Power Auth.
of N. Y. v. Federal Power Comm’n, 247 F. 2d 538,
542–543 (CADC 1957) (Bazelon, J.) (“No court has ever
said . . . that the treaty power can be exercised without
limit to affect matters which are of purely domestic concern and do
not pertain to our relations with other nations”), vacated as
moot, 355 U. S. 64 (1957) (per curiam).

															     A common refrain in
these cases is that the Treaty Power “extends to all proper
subjects of negotiation with foreign governments.” In re
Ross, 140 U. S. 453, 463 (1891) ; see also Geofroy v. Riggs,
133 U. S. 258, 266 (1890) (same); Asakura v. Seattle, 265
U. S. 332, 341 (1924) (same). Those cases identified certain
paradigmatic instances of “intercourse” that were
“proper negotiating subjects” fit for treaty. See,
e.g., Holmes, supra, at 569 (“[T]he treaty-making power must
have authority to decide how far the right of a foreign nation
. . . will be recognised and enforced, when it demands
the surrender of any [fugitive] charged with offences against
it”); Geofroy, supra, at 266 (“It is also clear that
the protection which should be afforded to the citizens of one
country owning property in another, and the manner in which that
prop-erty may be transferred, devised or inherited, are fitting
subjects for such negotiation and of regulation by mutual
stipulations between the two countries”); Asakura, supra, at
341 (“Treaties for the protection of citizens of one country
residing in the territory of another are numerous, and make for
good understanding between nations” (footnote omitted)).
Nothing in our cases, on the other hand, suggests that the Treaty
Power conceals a police power over domestic affairs.

															     Whatever its other
defects, Missouri v. Holland, 252 U. S. 416 (1920) , is
consistent with that view. There, the Court addressed the
constitutionality of a treaty that regulated the capture of birds
that migrated between Canada and the United States. Convention with
Great Britain for the Protection of Migratory Birds, Aug. 16, 1916,
39Stat. 1702, T. S. No. 628. Although the Court upheld a statute
implementing that treaty based on an improperly broad view of the
Necessary and Proper Clause, see ante, at 12–14 (Scalia, J.,
concurring in judgment), Holland did not conclude that the Treaty
Power itself was unlimited. See 252 U. S., at 433 (“We
do not mean to imply that there are no qualifications to the
treaty-making power . . .”). To the contrary, the
holding in Holland is consistent with the understanding that
treaties are limited to matters of international intercourse. The
Court observed that the treaty at issue addressed mi-gratory birds
that were “only transitorily within the State and ha[d] no
permanent habitat therein.” Id., at 435; see also id., at 434
(“[T]he treaty deals with creatures that [only] for the
moment are within the state borders”). As such, the birds
were naturally a matter of international intercourse because they
were creatures in international transit.[2]

															     At least until
recently, the original understanding that the Treaty Power is
limited was widely shared outside the Court as well. See Golove
1288 (“[V]irtually every authority, including the Supreme
Court, has on countless occasions from the earliest days recognized
general subject matter limitations on treaties”). The Second
Restatement on the Foreign Relations Law of the United States, for
example, opined that the Treaty Power is available only if the
subject matter of the treaty “is of international
concern.” §117(1)(a) (1964–1965). The Second
Restatement explained that a treaty “must relate to the
external concerns of the nation as distinguished from matters of a
purely internal nature.” Id., Comment b; see also Treaties
and Executive Agreements: Hearings on S. J. Res. 1 before a
Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, 84th Cong.,
1st Sess., 183 (1955) (Secretary of State Dulles) (Treaties cannot
regulate matters “which do not essentially affect the actions
of nations in relation to international affairs, but are purely
internal”); Proceedings of the American Society of
International Law 194–196 (1929) (C. Hughes) (“[The
Treaty Power] is not a power intended to be exercised
. . . with respect to matters that have no relation to
international concerns”). But see Restatement (Third) of
Foreign Relations Law of the United States §302, Comment c
(“Contrary to what was once suggested, the Constitution does
not require that an international agreement deal only with
‘matters of international concern’ ”). At a
minimum, the Second Restatement firmly reflects the understanding
shared by the Framers that the Treaty Power has substantive limits.
Only in the latter part of the past century have treaties
challenged that prevailing conception by addressing “matters
that in the past countries would have addressed wholly
domestically” and “purport[ing] to regulate the
relationship between nations and their own citizens,” Bradley
396; see also ante, at 12 (opinion of Scalia, J.). But even the
Solicitor General in this case would not go that far; he
acknowledges that “there may well be a line to be
drawn” regarding “whether the subject matter of [a]
treaty is a proper subject for a treaty.” Tr. of Oral Arg.
43:10–15.

															*  *  *

															     In an appropriate
case, I would draw a line that respects the original understanding
of the Treaty Power. I ac-knowledge that the distinction between
matters of in-ternational intercourse and matters of purely
domestic regulation may not be obvious in all cases. But this Court
has long recognized that the Treaty Power is limited, and
hypothetical difficulties in line-drawing are no reason to ignore a
constitutional limit on federal power.

															     The parties in this
case have not addressed the proper scope of the Treaty Power or the
validity of the treaty here. The preservation of limits on the
Treaty Power is nevertheless a matter of fundamental constitutional
importance, and the Court ought to address the scope of the Treaty
Power when that issue is presented. Given the increasing frequency
with which treaties have begun to test the limits of the Treaty
Power, see Bradley 402–409, that chance will come soon
enough.

Notes
1
 This point remains
disputed. Compare Bradley 456 (contending that treaties should be
subject “to the same federalism restrictions that apply to
Congress’s legislative powers”), with Golove 1077
(arguing treaties can address “subjects that are otherwise
beyond Congress’s legislative powers”).
2
 The Solicitor General
also defended the treaty in on a basis that recognized the limited
scope of the Treaty Power. Acknowledgingthat the Treaty Power
addressed “matters in which a foreign government may have an
interest, and which may properly be the subject of negotiations
with that Government,” Brief for Appellee in v. , O. T.
1919, No. 609, p. 41, the Solicitor General expressly reserved
the question “[w]hether a treaty . . . for the
protection of game which remains permanently within the United
States would be a valid exercise of the treaty-making power.”
at 42. Because the treaty at issue focused on creatures in
international transit—it was “limited to regulations
for the protection of birds which regularly migrate between the
United States and Canada”—the Solicitor General
concluded that the treaty concerned “a proper subject of
negotiations.”


