::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-038
::decision_cite:: 572 U.S. 434 (2014)
::decision_name::  Paroline v. United States
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–8561

															_________________

															DOYLE RANDALL PAROLINE, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the fifth circuit

															[April 23, 2014]

															

															     Justice Sotomayor,
dissenting.

															     This Court has long
recognized the grave “physiological, emotional, and
mental” injuries suffered by victims of child pornography.
New York v. Ferber, 458 U. S. 747, 758 (1982) . The traffic in
images depicting a child’s sexual abuse, we have observed,
“ ‘poses an even greater threat to the child
victim than does sexual abuse or prostitution’ ”
because the victim must “ ‘go through life knowing
that the recording is circulating within the mass distribution
system for child pornography.’ ” Id., at 759, n.
10. As we emphasized in a later case, the images cause
“continuing harm by haunting the chil[d] in years to
come.” Osborne v. Ohio, 495 U. S. 103, 111 (1990) .

															     Congress enacted 18
U. S. C. §2259 against this backdrop. The statute
imposes a “mandatory” duty on courts to order
restitution to victims of federal offenses involving the sexual
abuse of children, including the possession of child pornography.
§2259(b)(4). And it commands that for any such offense, a
court “shall direct the defendant to pay the victim
. . . the full amount of the victim’s
losses.” §2259(b)(1).

															     The Court interprets
this statute to require restitution in a
“circumscribed” amount less than the “entirety of
the victim’s . . . losses,” a total it
instructs courts to estimate based on the defendant’s
“relative role” in the victim’s harm. Ante, at
21. That amount, the Court holds, should be neither
“nominal” nor “severe.” Ibid.

															     I appreciate the
Court’s effort to achieve what it perceives to be a just
result. It declines to require restitution for a victim’s
full losses, a result that might seem incongruent to an individual
possessor’s partial role in a harm in which countless others
have participated. And it rejects the position advanced by Paroline
and the dissenting opinion of The Chief Justice, which would result
in no restitution in cases like this for the perverse reason that a
child has been victimized by too many.

															     The Court’s
approach, however, cannot be reconciled with the law that Congress
enacted. Congress mandated restitution for the “full amount
of the victim’s losses,” §2259(b)(1), and did so
within the framework of settled tort law principles that treat
defendants like Paroline jointly and severally liable for the
indivisible consequences of their intentional, concerted conduct.
And to the extent an award for the full amount of a victim’s
losses may lead to fears of unfair treatment for particular
defendants, Congress provided a mechanism to accommodate those
concerns: Courts are to order “partial payments” on a
periodic schedule if the defendant’s financial circumstances
or other “interest[s] of justice” so require.
§§3664(f )(3), 3572(d)(1). I would accordingly
affirm the Fifth Circuit’s holding that the District Court
“must enter a restitution order reflecting the ‘full
amount of [Amy’s] losses,’ ” In re Amy
Unknown, 701 F. 3d 749, 774 (2012), and instruct the court to
consider a periodic payment schedule on remand.

															I

															A

															     There are two
distinct but related questions in this case: First, whether
Paroline’s conduct bears a sufficient causal nexus to
Amy’s harm, and second, if such a nexus exists, how much
restitution Paroline should be required to pay. Beginning with
causation, I agree with the majority that proximate causation is
beyond dispute because the medical and economic losses suffered by
Amy are “direct and foreseeable results of child-pornography
crimes.” Ante, at 12; accord, ante, at 3 (Roberts,
C. J., dissenting). The real issue, then, is “the proper
standard of causation in fact.” Ante, at 12 (majority
opinion).

															     The majority and I
share common ground on much of this issue. We agree that the
ordinary way to prove cause-in-fact is to show that a result would
not have occurred “but for” the defendant’s
conduct. Burrage v. United States, 571 U. S. ___, ___ (2014)
(slip op., at 6). We also agree that “ ‘strict
but-for causality’ ” is “ ‘not
always required,’ ” and that alternative standards
of factual causation are appropriate “where there is
‘textual or contextual’ reason to conclude” as
much. Ante, at 13, 21 (quoting Burrage, 571 U. S., at ___
(slip op., at 8, 10). And most importantly, we agree that there are
ample reasons to reject a strict but-for causality requirement in
§2259. See ante, at 21.

															     Starting with the text,
§2259 declares that a court “shall order restitution for
any offense under this chapter.” The possession of child
pornography, §2252, is an offense under the relevant chapter,
and the term “shall” creates “an obligation
impervious to judicial discretion,” Lexecon Inc. v. Milberg
Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach, 523 U. S. 26, 35 (1998) . So
the text could not be clearer: A court must order restitution
against a person convicted of possessing child pornography. Section
2259(b)(4) underscores this directive by declaring that
“[t]he issuance of a restitution order under this section is
mandatory.” And the statute’s
title—“mandatory restitution”—reinforces it
further still.

															     Interpreting §2259
to require but-for causality would flout these simple textual
commands. That is because “a showing of but-for causation
cannot be made” in this case and many like it. Ante, at 12.
Even without Paroline’s offense, it is a regrettable fact
that “thousands would have viewed and would in the future
view [Amy’s] images,” such that “it cannot be
shown that her trauma and attendant losses would have been any
different but for Parolin[e].” Id., at 13. A but-for
requirement would thus make restitution under §2259 the
opposite of “mandatory”; it would preclude restitution
to the victim of the typical child pornography offense for the
nonsensical reason that the child has been victimized by too
many.

															     Such an approach would
transform §2259 into something unrecognizable to the Congress
that wrote it. When Congress passed §2259 in 1994, it was
common knowledge that child pornography victims suffer harm at the
hands of numerous offenders who possess their images in common,
whether in print, film, or electronic form. See, e.g., Shouvlin,
Preventing the Sexual Exploitation of Children: A Model Act, 17
Wake Forest L. Rev. 535, 544 (1981) (describing the “enormous
number of magazines” and “hundreds of films”
produced each year depicting the sexual abuse of children, which
were circulated to untold numbers of offenders through a
“well-organized distribution system [that] ensures that even
the small towns have access to [the] material”); Doyle, FBI
Probing Child Porn on Computers, San Francisco Chronicle, Dec. 5,
1991,p. A23 (describing complaint that “child pornographic
pho-tographs” were circulating via the “America On-Line
com-puter service”). Congress was also acutely aware of the
severe injuries that victims of child pornography suffer at the
hands of criminals who possess and view the recorded images of
their sexual abuse. Congress found, for example, that the
“continued existence” and circulation of child
pornography images “causes the child victims of sexual abuse
continuing harm by haunting those children in future years.”
Child Pornography Prevention Act of 1996, §121, 110Stat.
3009–26, Congressional Findings (2), notes following 18
U. S. C. §2251 (hereinafter §2251 Findings). It
is inconceivable that Congress would have imposed a mandatory
restitution obligation on the possessors who contribute to these
“continuing harm[s],” ibid., onlyto direct courts to
apply a but-for cause requirementthat would prevent victims from
actually obtaining any recovery.

															     There is, of course, an
alternative standard for determining cause-in-fact that would be
consistent with the text of §2259 and the context in which it
was enacted: aggregate causation. As the majority points out,
aggregate causation was, “no less than the but-for test
itself,” a “part of the background legal tradition
against which Congress” legislated. Ante, at 21. And under
this standard, “ ‘[w]hen the conduct of two or
more actors is so re-lated to an event that their combined conduct,
viewed as a whole, is a but-for cause of the event, and application
of the but-for rule to them individually would absolve all of them,
the conduct of each is a cause in fact of the
event.’ ” Ante, at 14 (quoting W. Keeton, D.
Dobbs, R. Keeton, & D. Owen, Prosser and Keeton on Law of Torts
§41, p. 268 (5th ed. 1984) (hereinafter Prosser and
Keeton)).[1] Paroline and his
fellow offenders plainly qualify as factual causes under this
approach because Amy’s losses would not have occurred but for
their combined conduct, and because applying the but-for rule would
excuse them all.

															     There is every reason
to think Congress intended §2259 to incorporate aggregate
causation. Whereas a but-for requirement would set
§2259’s “mandatory” restitution command on a
collision course with itself, the aggregate causation standard
follows directly from the statute. Section 2259 is unequivocal; it
offers no safety-in-numbers exception for defendants who possess
images of a child’s abuse in common with other offenders. And
the aggregate causation standard exists to avoid exactly that kind
of exception. See Prosser and Keeton §41, at 268–269
(aggregate causation applies where multiple defendants
“bea[r] a like relationship” to a victim’s
injury, and where “[e]ach seeks to escape liability for a
reason that, if recognized, would likewise protect each other
defendant in the group, thus leaving the [victim] without a remedy
in the face of the fact that had none of them acted improperly the
[victim] would not have suffered the harm”); Restatement
(Third) of Torts: Liability for Physical and Emotional Harm
§27, Comment f, p. 380 (2005) (similar).

															     At bottom, Congress did
not intend §2259 to create a safe harbor for those who inflict
upon their victims the proverbial death by a thousand cuts. Given
the very nature of the child pornography market—in which a
large class of offenders contribute jointly to their victims’
harm by trading in their images—a but-for causation
requirement would swallow §2259’s
“mandatory” restitution command, leaving victims with
little hope of recovery. That is all the “textual [and]
contextual” reason necessary to conclude that Congress
incorporated aggregate causation into §2259. Burrage, 571
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 8).

															B

															     The dissent of The
Chief Justice suggests that a contrary conclusion is compelled by
our decision in Hughey v. United States, 495 U. S. 411 (1990)
. Hughey involved a defendant who had been convicted of a single
count of unauthorized credit card use, which resulted in $10,412 in
losses. Id., at 414. The Government nonetheless re-quested
restitution for additional losses based on different counts in the
indictment that the Government had agreed to dismiss. Id., at 413.
We declined the Government’s request, reasoning that
restitution was to be tied to the offense of conviction. Id., at
418.

															     That commonsense
holding, of course, casts no doubt on the ordinary practice of
requiring restitution for losses caused by an offense for which a
defendant is convicted, where the loss is the product of the
combined conduct of multiple offenders. What troubles my colleagues
in this case, then, is not the concept of restitution in cases
involving losses caused by more than one offender. Their objection
is instead to restitution in cases where the victim’s losses
are caused by too many offenders. As The Chief Justice puts it,
Congress wrote a law that would enable Amy to recover if only her
images had been circulated by “a single distributor” to
just a “handful of possessors.” Ante, at 6–7. But
because she has been victimized by numerous distributors and
thousands of possessors, she gets nothing. It goes without saying
that Congress did not intend that result.

															     My colleagues in
dissent next assert that no restitution may be awarded because of
§3664(e), which describes the Government’s burden of
showing the “loss sustained by a victim as a result of the
offense.” But that provision is nothing close to a
“direct answer” to this case. Ante, at 4. It simply
restates the question: What should a court do when the losses
sustained by a victim are the “result of the
[defendant’s] offense,” §3664(e), but that result
is produced in combination with the offenses of others? One answer
is that the defendant’s offense is a cause-in-fact only of
losses for which it was a but-for cause. A second is that the
offense is a cause-in-fact of losses for which it was part of the
aggregate cause. The former would preclude restitution in cases
like this; the latter would allow it. Given Congress’
“mandatory” command that courts “shall order
restitution for any offense,” §§2259(a), (b)(4), it
is beyond clear which answer Congress chose.[2]

															     The Chief
Justice’s dissent also fails to contend with the
ramifications of the suggestion that §3664(e) forecloses entry
of restitution in cases where a victim suffers indivisible losses
as a result of the aggregate conduct of numerous offenders. It
claims that this reading of §3664(e) “will work just
fine” for “common crimes” such as assault. Ante,
at 5–6. But what about a victim of a vicious gang assault,
where a single offender’s conduct cannot be labeled a but-for
cause of any discrete injury? Such offenses are, unfortunately, all
too common. See, e.g., Wheelock v. United States, 2013 WL 2318145,
*2 (ED Wisc., May 28, 2013) (defendant convicted for his
participation in a gang rape of a 13-year-old victim in which he
“and several other individuals had provided alcohol to the
girl and, after she became intoxicated and unconscious, sexually
assaulted her”); United States v. Homer B., 1990 WL 79705
(CA9, June 14, 1990) (similar). I would have thought it beyond
refute that the victim of such a tragic offense would be entitled
to restitution even though none of her losses may be attributed
solely to any individual defendant. If the opinion of The Chief
Justice is in agreement, it does not explain why the result should
be any different for victims like Amy, who have suffered heart
wrenching losses at the hands of thousands of offenders rather than
a few.[3]

															II

															     The majority accepts
aggregate causation at least to an extent, ruling that §2259
requires possessors to pay some amount of restitution even though
“it is impossible” to say that they caused “a
particular amount of [a victim’s] losses . . . by
recourse to a more traditional [but-for] causal inquiry.”
Ante, at 21. But the majority resists the “strict
logic” of aggregate causation for fear that doing so would
produce the “striking outcome” of an award against an
individual possessor “for the entire aggregately caused
amount.” Ante, at 15–16. The majority accordingly holds
that “a court applying §2259 should order restitution in
an amount that comports with the defendant’s relative”
contribution to “the victim’s general losses.”
Ante, at 21.

															     The majority’s
apportionment approach appears to be a sensible one. It would, for
instance, further the goal of “proportionality in
sentencing,” avoid “turning away victims
emptyhanded,” and “spread payment among”
offenders. Ante, at 24–25. But it suffers from a far more
fundamental problem: It contravenes the language Congress actually
used. Section 2259 directs courts to enter restitution not for a
“proportional” or “relative” amount, but
for the “full amount of the victim’s losses.”
§2259(b)(1). That command is unequivocal, and it is buttressed
by the tort law tradition of joint and several liability within
which Congress legislated.

															A

															     Once a defendant is
found to bear a sufficient causal nexus to a victim’s harm,
§2259 provides a straightforward instruction on how much
restitution a court is to order: “The order of restitution
under this section shall direct the defendant to pay the victim
. . . the full amount of the victim’s
losses.” §2259(b)(1). Because the word
“shall” imposes a “discretionless
obligatio[n],” Lopez v. Davis, 531 U. S. 230, 241 (2001)
, a court considering a §2259 restitution request has no
license to deviate from the statute’s command. It must enter
an order for the “full amount of the victim’s
losses,” regardless of whether other defendants may have
contributed to the same victim’s harm.

															     If there were any doubt
on the matter, Congress eliminated it in §2259(b)(4)(B)(ii),
which bars a court from “declin[ing] to issue [a restitution]
order under this section” on the ground that a victim
“is entitled to receive compensation for his or her injuries
from the proceeds of insurance or any other source.” One
“other source” from which a victim would be
“entitled to receive compensation” is, of course, other
offenders who possess images of her sexual abuse. It is unthinkable
that Congress would have expressly forbidden courts to award
victims no restitution because their harms have been aggregately
caused by many offenders, only to permit restitution orders for a
single penny for the same reason.

															B

															     As the majority
recognizes, Congress did not draft §2259 in a vacuum; it did
so in the context of settled tort law traditions. See ante, at
14–15; see also Meyer v. Holley, 537 U. S. 280, 285
(2003) (Congress “legislates against a legal background of
ordinary tort-related” principles). Section 2259 functions as
a tort statute, one designed to ensure that victims will recover
compensatory damages in an efficient manner concurrent with
criminal proceedings. See Restatement of Torts §901, p. 537
(1939) (the purposes of tort law include “to give
compensation, indemnity, or restitution for harms” and
“to punish wrongdoers”); Dolan v. United States, 560 U.
S. 605, 612 (2010) (the “substantive purpose” of the
related Mandatory Victims Restitution Act of 1996, §3664, is
“to ensure that victims of a crime receive full
restitution”). And the nature of the child pornography
industry and the indivisible quality of the injuries suffered by
its victims make this a paradigmatic situation in which traditional
tort law principles would require joint and several liability. By
requiring restitution for the “full amount of the
victim’s losses,” §2259(b)(1), Congress did not
depart from these principles; it embraced them.

															     First, the injuries
caused by child pornography possessors are impossible to apportion
in any practical sense. It cannot be said, for example, that
Paroline’s offense alone required Amy to attend five
additional minutes of therapy, or that it caused some discrete
portion of her lost income. The majority overlooks this fact,
ordering courts to surmise some “circumscribed” amount
of loss based on a list of factors. Ante, at 21, 22–23; see
also ante, at 7–10 (Roberts, C. J., dissenting). Section
2259’s full restitution requirement dispenses with this
guesswork, however, and in doing so it harmonizes with the settled
tort law tradition concerning indivisible injuries. As this Court
explained this rule in Edmonds v. Compagnie Generale
Transatlantique, 443 U. S. 256 (1979) , unless a
plaintiff ’s “injury is divisible and the
causation of each part can be separately assigned to each
tortfeasor,” the rule is that a “tortfeasor is not
relieved of liability for the entire harm he caused just because
another’s negligence was also a factor in effecting the
injury.” Id., at 260, n. 8; see also Prosser and Keeton
§52, at 347 (joint and several liability applies to injuries
that “are obviously incapable of any reasonable or practical
division”); Feneff v. Boston & Maine R. Co., 196
Mass. 575, 580, 82 N. E. 705, 707 (1907) (similar).

															     Second, Congress
adopted §2259 against the backdrop of the rule governing
concerted action by joint tortfeasors, which specifies that
“[w]here two or more [tortfeasors] act in concert, it is well
settled . . . that each will be liable for the entire
result.” Prosser and Keeton §52, at 346. The degree of
concerted action required by the rule is not inordinate; “if
one person acts to produce injury with full knowledge that others
are acting in a similar manner and that his conduct will contribute
to produce a single harm, a joint tort has been consummated even
when there is no prearranged plan.” 1 F. Harper, F. James,
& O. Gray, The Law of Torts §10.1, p. 699 (1st ed. 1956)
(hereinafter 1 Harper and James); see also, e.g., Troop v. Dew, 150
Ark. 560, 565, 234 S. W. 992, 994 (1921) (defendants jointly liable
for uncoordinated acts where they were “working to a common
purpose”).

															     Child pornography
possessors are jointly liable under this standard, for they act in
concert as part of a global network of possessors, distributors,
and producers who pursue the common purpose of trafficking in
images of child sexual abuse. As Congress itself recognized,
“possessors of such material” are an integral part of
the “market for the sexual exploitative use of
children.” §2251 Finding (12). Moreover, although
possessors like Paroline may not be familiar with every last
participant in the market for child sexual abuse images, there is
little doubt that they act with knowledge of the inevitable harms
caused by their combined conduct. Paroline himself admitted to
possessing between 150 and 300 images of minors engaged in sexually
explicit conduct, which he downloaded from other offenders on the
Internet. See 672 F. Supp. 2d 781, 783; App. 146. By
communally browsing and downloading Internet child pornography,
offenders like Paroline “fuel the process” that allows
the industry to flourish. O’Connell, Paedophiles Networking
on the Internet, in Child Abuse on the Internet: Ending the Silence
77 (C. Arnaldo ed. 2001). Indeed, one expert describes Internet
child pornography networks as “an example of a complex
criminal conspiracy,” ibid.—the quintessential
concerted action to which joint and several liability attaches.

															     Lastly,
§2259’s full restitution requirement conforms to what
Congress would have understood to be the uniform rule governing
joint and several liability for intentional torts. Under that rule,
“[e]ach person who commits a tort that requires intent is
jointly and severally liable for any indivisible injury legally
caused by the tortious conduct.” Restatement (Third) of
Torts: Apportionment of Liability §12, p. 110 (2007). There is
little doubt that the possession of images of a child being
sexually abused would amount to an intentional invasion of privacy
tort—and an extreme one at that. See Restatement (Second) of
Torts §652B, p. 378 (1976) (“One who intentionally
intrudes, physically or otherwise, upon [another’s] private
affairs or concerns, is subject to liability . . . if the
intrusion would be highly offensive to a reasonable
person”).[4]

															     Section 2259’s
imposition of joint and several liability makes particular sense
when viewed in light of this intentional tort rule. For at the end
of the day, the question of how to allocate losses among defendants
is really a choice between placing the risk of loss on the
defendants (since one who is caught first may be required to pay
more than his fair share) or the victim (since an apportionment
regime would risk preventing her from obtaining full recovery).
Whatever the merits of placing the risk of loss on a victim in the
context of a negligence-based offense, Congress evidently struck
the balance quite differently in this context, placing the risk on
the morally culpable possessors of child pornography and not their
innocent child victims.

															C

															     Notwithstanding
§2259’s text and the longstanding tort law traditions
that support it, the majority adopts an apportionment approach
based on its concern that joint and several liability might lead to
unfairness as applied to individual defendants. See ante, at
15–22. The majority finds this approach necessary because
§2259 does not provide individual defendants with the ability
to seek contribution from other offenders. Ante, at 17–18. I
agree that the statute does not create a cause of action for
contribution, but unlike the majority I do not think the absence of
contribution suggests that Congress intended the phrase “full
amount of the victim’s losses” to mean something less
than that. For instead of expending judicial resources on disputes
between intentional tortfeasors, Congress crafted a different
mechanism for preventing inequitable treatment of individual
defendants—the use of periodic payment schedules.

															     Section 2259(b)(2)
directs that “[a]n order of restitution under this section
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with section
3664.” Section 3664(f )(1)(A) in turn reiterates
§2259’s command that courts “shall order
restitution to each victim in the full amount of each
victim’s losses.” But §3664 goes on to distinguish
between the amount of restitution ordered and the schedule on which
payments are to be made. Thus, §3664(f )(2) states that a
court “shall . . . specify in the restitution order
. . . the schedule according to whic[h] the restitution
is to be paid,” and §3664(f )(3)(A) provides that
“[a] restitution order may direct the defendant to make a
single, lump sum payment” or “partial payments at
specified intervals.” Critically, in choosing between
lump-sum and partial payments, courts “shall” consider
“the financial resources and other assets of the
defendant,” along with “any financial obligationsof the
defendant, including obligations to dependents.”
§§3664(f )(2)(A), (C).

															     Applying these factors
to set an appropriate payment schedule in light of any individual
child pornography possessor’s financial circumstances would
not be difficult; indeed, there is already a robust body of case
law clarifying how payment schedules are to be set under
§3664(f ). For example, Courts of Appeals have uniformly
found it an abuse of discretion to require defendants to make
immediate lump-sum payments for the full amount of a restitution
award when they do not have the ability to do so. In such cases,
Congress has instead required courts to impose periodic payment
schedules. See, e.g., United States v. McGlothlin, 249 F. 3d
783, 784 (CA8 2001) (reversing lump-sum payment order where
defendant “had no ability to pay the restitution
immediately,” and requiring District Court to set a periodic
payment schedule); United States v. Myers, 198 F. 3d 160,
168–169 (CA5 1999) (same). The existing body of law also
provides guidance as to proper payment schedules. Compare, e.g.,
United States v. Calbat, 266 F. 3d 358, 366 (CA5 2001) (annual
payment of $41,000 an abuse of discretion where defendant had a net
worth of $6,400 and yearly income of $39,000), with United States
v. Harris, 60 F. Supp. 2d 169, 180 (SDNY 1999) (setting
payment schedule for the greater of $35 per month or 10% of
defendant’s gross income).

															     Section 3664’s
provision for partial periodic payments thus alleviates any
concerns of unfairness for the vast number of child pornography
defendants who have modest financial resources. A more difficult
challenge is presented, however, by the case of a wealthy defendant
who wouldbe able to satisfy a large restitution judgment in an
immediate lump-sum payment. But the statute is fully capable of
ensuring just results for these defendants, too. For in addition to
an offender’s financial circumstances, §3664 permits
courts to consider other factors “in the interest of
justice” when deciding whether to impose a payment schedule.
See §3664(f )(2) (district court shall specify payment
schedule “pursuant to section 3572”); §3572(d)(1)
(restitution order shall be payable in periodic installments if
“in the interest of justice”).

															     Accordingly, in the
context of a restitution order against a wealthy child pornography
possessor, it would likely be in the interest of justice for a
district court to set a payment schedule requiring the defendant to
pay restitution in amounts equal to the periodic losses that the
district court finds will actually be “incurred by the
victim,” §2259(b)(3), in the given timeframe. In this
case, for example, Amy’s expert estimates that she will
suffer approximately $3.4 million in losses from medical costs and
lost income over the next 60 years of her life, or approximately
$56,000 per year. If that estimate is deemed accurate, a court
would enter a restitution order against a wealthy defendant for the
full $3.4 million amount of Amy’s losses, and could make it
payable on an annual schedule of $56,000 per year. Doing so would
serve the interest of justice because the periodic payment schedule
would allow the individual wealthy defendant’s ultimate
burden to be substantially offset by payments made by other
offenders,[5] while the entry
of the full restitution award would provide certainty to Amy that
she will be made whole for her losses.

															*  *  *

															     Although I ultimately
reach a different conclusion as to the proper interpretation of the
statutory scheme, I do appreciate the caution with which the Court
has announced its approach. For example, the Court expressly
rejects the possibility of district courts entering restitution
orders for “token or nominal amount[s].” Ante, at 21.
That point is important because, if taken out of context, aspects
of the Court’s opinion might be construed otherwise. For
instance, the Court states that in estimating a restitution amount,
a district court may consider “the broader number of
offenders involved (most of whom will, of course, never be caught
or convicted).” Ante, at 23. If that factor is given too much
weight, it could lead to ex-actly the type of trivial restitution
awards the Court disclaims. Amy’s counsel has noted, for
instance, that in light of the large number of persons who possess
her images, a truly proportional approach to restitution would lead
to an award of just $47 against any individual defendant. Brief for
Respondent Amy 65. Congress obviously did not intend that outcome,
and the Court wisely refuses to permit it.[6]

															     In the end, of course,
it is Congress that will have the final say. If Congress wishes to
recodify its full restitution command, it can do so in language
perhaps even more clear than §2259’s
“mandatory” directive to order restitution for the
“full amount of the victim’s losses.” Congress
might amend the statute, for example, to include the term
“aggregate causation.” Alternatively, to avoid the
uncertainty in the Court’s apportionment approach, Congress
might wish to enact fixed minimum restitution amounts. See, e.g.,
§2255 (statutorily imposed $150,000 minimum civil remedy). In
the meanwhile, it is my hope that the Court’s approach will
not unduly undermine the ability of victims like Amy to recover
for—and from—the unfathomable harms they have
sustained.

Notes
1
 The Fifth Circuit
recognized this standard more than 60 years ago when it observed
that “ ‘[a]ccording to the great weight of
authority where the concurrent or successive acts or omissions of
two or more persons, although acting independently of each other,
are in combination, the direct or proximate cause of a single
injury,’ ” any of them may be held liable
“ ‘even though his act alone might not have caused
the entire injury, or the same damage might have resulted from the
act of the other tort-feasor[s].’ ” v. , 189 F. 2d 205,
212 (1951) (quoting 38 Am. Jur. Negligence §257, p. 946
(1941)).
2
 ’s dissent elides
the distinction between aggregate and but-for causation. Despite
“assum[ing], for purposes of argument,” that §2259
incorporates aggregate causation, the dissent nevertheless applies
but-for causation to determine the “full amount” of
losses Paroline must pay. See , at 5, and n. 2 (arguing that
Paro-line can only be asked to pay “the full amount of the
losses caused,” not losses that he and others combined to
cause). My dissenting colleagues cannot have it both ways. Either
§2259 incorporates aggregate causation (in which case the full
amount of Amy’s losses is all of the losses aggregately
caused by Paroline and like offenders), or it requires but-for
causation (in which case Amy gets nothing).
3
  objects that gang
assaults are not a “fair analogy” because they involve
a group of individuals acting “together, with a common
plan.” , at 6, n. 3. But individuals need not act together to
trigger joint and several liability; such liability applies equally
to multiple actors who independently commit intentional torts that
combine to produce an indivisible injury. , at 11–14. And in
any event, the offenders at issue in this case act together, with
the common end of trafficking in the market for images of child
sexual abuse. See , at 12–13. While these offenders may not
be physi-cally in the same room when they commit their crimes,
there is no rea-son to read §2259(b)(4)’s
“mandatory” restitution command out of the statute for
child abusers who hide behind the anonymity of a computer
screen.
4
 Possession of child
pornography under §2252 constitutes an intentional tort
notwithstanding that the offense requires a of knowledge. See
§2252(a)(3)(B) (punishing one who “knowingly sells or
possesses” child pornography). One is “said to act
knowingly if he is aware ‘ “that [a] result is
practically certain to follow from his
conduct.” ’ ” v. , . That definition
is, if anything, more exacting than the kind of
“intent” required for an intentional tort under the
Restatement, which defines “intent” to include
situations where an actor “believes that . . .
consequences are substantially certain to result from [his
act].” Restatement (Second) of Torts §8A, p. 15
(1965).
5
 As the facts of this case
show, the offset would be significant. Between June 2009 and
December 11, 2013, Amy obtained restitution awards from 182
persons, 161 of whom were ordered to pay an amount between $1,000
and $530,000. See Restitution Awards for Amy Through December 11,
2013, Lodging of United States. If these offenders (and new
offenders caught each month) were instead ordered to pay the full
amount of restitution in periodic amounts according to their
financial means, a wealthy defendant’s annual obligation
would terminate long before he would be required to pay anything
close to the full $3.4 million. For once a victim receives the full
amount of restitution, all outstanding obligations expire because
§2259 does not displace the settled joint and several
liability rule forbidding double recovery. See Restatement (Second)
of Torts §885(3) (1979), see also, v. , 364 F. 3d 419,
423 (CA2 2004).
6
 The Court mentions that
Amy received roughly $6,000 from her uncle, the person responsible
for abusing her as a child. at 2. Care must be taken in considering
the amount of the award against Amy’s uncle, however, at 23,
because as Amy’s expert explained, Amy was “back to
normal” by the end of her treatment for the initial offense.
App. 70. It was chiefly after discovering, eight years later, that
images of her sexual abuse had spread on the Internet that Amy
suffered additional losses due to the realization that possessors
like Paroline were viewing them and that “the sexual abuse of
her has never really ended.” , at71.


