::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-056
::decision_cite:: 573 U.S. 41 (2014)
::decision_name::  Scialabba v. de Osorio
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Sotomayor
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–930

															_________________

															LORI SCIALABBA, ACTING DIRECTOR, UNITEDSTATES
CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES, et al., PETITIONERS v.
ROSA-LINA CUELLAR DE OSORIO et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 9, 2014]

															     Justice Sotomayor,
with whom Justice Breyer joins, and with whom Justice Thomas joins
except as to footnote 3, dissenting.

															     Although the workings
of our Nation’s immigration system are often complex, the
narrow question of statutory interpretation at the heart of this
case is straightforward. Which aged-out children are entitled to
retain their prior-ity dates: derivative beneficiaries of visa
petitions in all five family-preference categories, or derivative
beneficiaries of petitions in only one category? The initial clause
of 8 U. S. C. §1153(h)(3) provides a clear answer:
Aged-out children may retain their priority dates so long as they
meet a single condition—they must be “determined
. . . to be 21 years of age or older for purposes
of” derivative beneficiary status. Because all five
categories of aged-out children satisfy this condition, all are
entitled to relief.

															     Notwithstanding this
textual command, the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) ruled that
four of the five categories of aged-out children to whom
§1153(h)(3) unambiguously promises priority date retention,
are, in fact, entitled to no relief at all. See Matter of Wang, 25
I. & N. Dec. 28, 38–39 (2009). The Court defers to that
interpretation today. In doing so, the Court does not identify any
ambiguity in the dispositive initial clause of §1153(h)(3).
Indeed, it candidly admits that the clause mandates relief for
“every aged-out beneficiary of a family-preference
petition” in any of the five categories. Ante, at 21. The
Court nevertheless holds that the BIA was free to ignore this
unambiguous text on the ground that §1153(h)(3) also offers
aged-out derivative beneficiaries a type of relief—automatic
conversion—that it thinks can apply only to one of the five
categories. The Court thus perceives a conflict in the statute
that, in its view, permits the BIA to override
§1153(h)(3)’s initial eligibility clause.

															     In reaching this
conclusion, the Court fails to follow a cardinal rule of statutory
interpretation: When deciding whether Congress has
“specifically addressed the question at issue,” thereby
leaving no room for an agency to fill a statutory gap, courts must
“interpret the statute ‘as a . . . coherent
regulatory scheme’ and ‘fit, if possible, all parts
into [a] harmonious whole.’ ” FDA v. Brown &
Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U. S. 120 –133 (2000)
(citation omitted). Because the Court and the BIA ignore obvious
ways in which §1153(h)(3) can operate as a coherent whole and
instead construe the statute as a self-contradiction that was
broken from the moment Congress wrote it, I respectfully
dissent.

															I

															     Under Chevron, the
first question we ask when reviewing an agency’s construction
of a statute is whether “Congress has directly spoken to the
precise question at issue.” Chevron U. S. A. Inc.
v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 842
(1984) . If it has, then “the court, as well as the agency,
must give effect to th[at] unambiguously expressed intent.”
Id., at 842–843. Congress has spoken directly to the question
in this case.

															     United States citizens
and lawful permanent residents (LPRs) may petition for certain
relatives who reside abroad (known as the “principal
beneficiaries” of such petitions) to receive immigrant visas.
Congress has defined five categories of eligible
relatives—referred to as family-preference
categories—with annual limits on the number of visas that may
be issued within each category.[1] Because the demand for visas outstrips supply, the wait
for a visa can often last many years. While a principal beneficiary
waits, her place in line is determined based on her “priority
date,” the date on which her petition was filed. See
§1153(e)(1); 8 CFR §204.1(b) (2014); 22 CFR
§42.53(a) (2013). Priority dates are therefore
crucial—the earlier one’s priority date, the sooner
one’s place will come up in line and a visa will be
available. Significantly, when the wait ends and a principal
beneficiary finally becomes eligible to apply for a visa, 8
U. S. C. §1153(d) enables the beneficiary’s
spouse and minor children (known as “derivative
beneficiaries”) to do so too.

															     This case arises from a
common problem: Given the lengthy period prospective immigrants
must wait for a visa, a principal beneficiary’s
child—although younger than 21 when her parent’s
petition was initially filed—often will have turned 21 by the
time the parent’s priority date comes up in line. Such a
child is said to have “aged out” of derivative
beneficiary treatment under §1153(d). By way of example,
respondent Norma Uy was the principal beneficiary of an F4
family-preference petition filed by her U. S. citizen sister
in February 1981. That petition listed Norma’s daughter,
Ruth, who was then two years old, as a derivative beneficiary. If
Norma had reached the front of the visa line at any time before
Ruth’s 21st birthday, §1153(d) would have enabled Ruth
to accompany Norma to the United States. Unfortunately, it took
more than two decades for Norma’s priority date to become
current, by which point Ruth was 23 and thus too old for derivative
beneficiary status under §1153(d). Norma therefore immigrated
alone to the United States, where she filed a new F2B petition (for
unmarried children of LPRs) on Ruth’s behalf. Before
§1153(h)(3) was enacted, however, an immigrant in Ruth’s
position would have been unable to retain the February 1981
priority date from her original petition; the law would have
instead required her to receive a new priority date all the way at
the back of the F2B line.

															     Congress responded to
this problem by enacting §1153(h)(3), a provision entitled
“[r]etention of priority date.” It states:

															     “If the age
of an alien is determined under [the formula specified in]
paragraph (1)[[2]] to be 21
years of age or older for the purpos[e] of . . .
[§1153(d)] of this section, the alien’s petition shall
automatically be converted to the appropriate category and the
alien shall retain the original priority date issued upon receipt
of the original petition.”

															     The provision’s
structure is crucial to its meaning. The initial clause (call it
the “eligibility clause”) specifies who is eligible for
relief. The concluding clause (call it the “relief
clause”) describes the two forms of relief to which eligible
persons are entitled. As the title of the provision suggests, the
main form of relief is the right of an aged-out derivative
beneficiary to retain the priority date of her original petition.
In Ruth Uy’s case, such relief would mean the difference
between resuming her wait near the front of the F2B line (which
would allow her to receive a visa in short order) and being sent to
the back of the line (where she would potentially have to wait an
additional 27 years). Brief for Respondents 52.

															     The question in this
case is which aged-out beneficiaries of family-preference petitions
are eligible for priority date retention: the aged-out
beneficiaries of petitions in all five family-preference categories
(which would include respondents’ children, who were
derivative beneficiaries of F3 and F4 petitions for adult children
and adult siblings of U. S. citizens, respectively), or the
aged-out beneficiaries of only F2A petitions for spouses and
children of LPRs (the interpretation offered by the BIA)?

															     Congress answered that
question in §1153(h)(3)’s eligibility clause, which
specifies that relief is to be conferred on any immigrant who has
been “determined under [the formula specified in] paragraph
(1) to be 21 years of age or older” for the purpose of
§1153(d). As the plurality concedes, this clause “states
a condition that every aged-out beneficiary of a preference
petition satisfies”—that is, it makes eligible for
relief aged-out children within each of the F1, F2A, F2B, F3, and
F4 categories. Ante, at 14.

															     Congress made this
clear in two mutually reinforc-ing ways. First, by referring to the
formula set forth in “paragraph (1),” the statute
incorporates that paragraph’s cross-reference to
§1153(h)(2). Section 1153(h)(2) in turn defines the set of
covered petitions to include, “with respect to an alien child
who is a derivative beneficiary under [§1153(d)], a petition
filed . . . for classificationof the alien’s parent
under [§1153(a)].” And §1153(a) encompasses all
five family-preference categories. See
§§1153(a)(1)–(4). Second, §1153(h)(3) promises
relief to those who are found to be 21 “for the purpos[e] of
. . . [§1153](d),” the provision governing
derivative beneficiaries. And that provision also unambiguously
covers all five family-preference categories. See §1153(d) (a
minor child is “entitled to the same status” as a
parent who is the principal beneficiary of a petition filed under
§1153(a)); §1153(a) (setting forth the five
family-preferencecategories).

															     In short,
§1153(h)(3)’s eligibility clause answers the precise
question in this case: Aged-out beneficiaries within all five
categories are entitled to relief. “[T]he intent of Congress
is clear,” so “that is the end of the matter.”
Chevron, 467 U. S., at 842.

															II

															A

															     Because it concedes
that §1153(h)(3)’s eligibility clause unambiguously
“encompasses every aged-out beneficiary of a
family-preference petition,” ante, at 21, the plurality tries
to fit this case into a special pocket of Chevron jurisprudence in
which it says we must defer to an agency’s decision to ignore
a clear statutory command due to a conflict between that command
and another statutory provision. See ante, at 14, 21. Thus, unlike
in the usual Chevron case, where ambiguity derives from the fact
that the text does not speak with sufficient specificity to the
question at issue, the plurality argues that this is a case in
which ambiguity can only arise—if it is to arise at
all—if Congress has spoken clearly on the issue in
diametrically opposing ways.[3]
As the plurality frames it, §1153(h)(3)’s eligibility
and relief clauses are “Janus-faced,” and that conflict
“makes possible alternative reasonable constructions.”
Ante, at 14.

															     In rushing to find a
conflict within the statute, the plurality neglects a fundamental
tenet of statutory interpretation: We do not lightly presume that
Congress has legislated in self-contradicting terms. See A. Scalia
& B. Garner, Reading Law: The Interpretation of Legal Texts 180
(2012) (“The provisions of a text should be interpreted in a
way that renders them compatible, not
contradic-tory. . . . [T]here can be no
justification for needlessly ren-dering provisions in conflict if
they can be interpreted harmoniously”). That is especially
true where, as here, the conflict that Congress supposedly created
is not between two different statutes or even two separate
provisions within a single statute, but between two clauses in the
same sentence. See ibid. (“[I]t is invariably true that
intelligent drafters do not contradict themselves”). Thus,
time and again we have stressed our duty to “fit, if
possible, all parts [of a statute] into [a] harmonious
whole.” FTC v. Mandel Brothers, Inc., 359 U. S. 385, 389
(1959) ; see also Morton v. Mancari, 417 U. S. 535, 551 (1974)
(when two provisions “are capable of co-existence, it is the
duty of the courts . . . to regard each as
effective”). In reviewing an agency’s construction of a
statute, courts “must,” we have emphasized,
“interpret the statute ‘as a . . . coherent
regulatory scheme’ ” rather than an internally
inconsistent muddle, at war with itself and defective from the day
it was written. Brown & Williamson, 529 U. S., at 133. And
in doing so, courts should “[e]mplo[y] traditional tools of
statutory construction.” INS v. Cardoza-Fonseca, 480
U. S. 421, 446 (1987) . Each of these cautions springs from a
common well: As judicious as it can be to defer to administrative
agencies, our foremost duty is, and always has been, to give effect
to the law as drafted by Congress.

															     The plurality contends
that deference is appropriate here because, in its view, 8
U. S. C. §1153(h)(3)’s two clauses are
“self-contradictory.” Ante, at 33. But far from it
being unworkable (or even difficult) for the agency to obey both
clauses, traditional tools of statutory construction reveal that
§1153(h)’s clauses are entirely compatible.

															B

															     The plurality argues
that although §1153(h)(3)’s eligibility clause clearly
encompasses aged-out beneficiaries within all five preference
categories, the relief clause implies a conflicting
“limitation on the eligible class of recipients.” Ante,
at 15. The plurality infers that limitation from two premises.
First, it contends that no aged-out child may retain her priority
date unless her petition is also eligible for automatic conversion.
And second, it asserts that only aged-out F2A beneficiaries may
receive automatic conversion. As a result, the plurality concludes,
it was reasonable for the BIA to exclude aged-out children in the
four other categories from receiving both automatic conversion and
priority date retention, thereby rendering §1153(h)(3)’s
eligibility clause defunct.

															     The plurality’s
conclusion is wrong because its premises are wrong. For one,
§1153(h)(3) is naturally read to confer priority date
retention as an independent form of relief to all aged-out
children, regardless of whether automatic conversion is separately
available. And even if that were wrong, the plurality’s
supposition that only F2A beneficiaries can receive automatic
conversion is incorrect on its own terms. Because either of these
interpretations would treat §1153(h)(3) as a coherent whole,
the BIA’s construction was impermissible.

															1

															     The most obvious flaw
in the plurality’s analysis is its presumption that
§1153(h)(3) permits an aged-out child to retain her original
priority date only if her petition canbe automatically converted.
That is incorrect for many reasons.

															     When an immigrant is
determined to have aged out of derivative beneficiary status,
§1153(h)(3) prescribes two forms of relief: “[T]he
alien’s petition shall automatically be converted to the
appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original
priority date issued upon receipt of the original petition.”
We have held that when a statute provides two forms of relief in
this manner, joined by the conjunction “and,” the two
remedies are “distinct.” United States v. Ron Pair
Enterprises, Inc., 489 U. S. 235 –242 (1989). That
understanding makes particular sense here, where Congress used the
mandatory word “shall” twice, once before each form of
relief. See Lexecon Inc. v. Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes &
Lerach, 523 U. S. 26, 35 (1998) (“[T]he mandatory [term]
‘shall’ . . . normally creates an obligation
impervious to judicial discretion”). Moreover, the two
“shall” commands operate on different subjects, further
reinforcing that they prescribe distinct remedies: An aged-out
“alien’s petition shall automatically be
converted,” but it is “the alien” herself who, in
all events, “shall retain” her original priority date.
§1153(h)(3) (emphasis added).

															     The plurality responds
with a series of examples in which the word “and” is
used to join two commands, one of which is—as the plurality
asserts here—dependent on another. Ante, at 28, and n. 15.
But as the plurality recognizes, ante, at 28, that is hardly the
only way the word can be used. For example: “If today’s
baseball game is rained out, your ticket shall automatically be
converted to a ticket for next Saturday’s game, and you shall
retain your free souvenir from today’s game.” Or:
“If you provide the DMV with proof of your new address, your
voter registration shall automatically be converted to the correct
polling location, and you shall receive in the mail an updated
driver’s license.” It is plain in both of these
examples that the two commands are distinct—the fan in the
first example can keep her free souvenir even if she cannot attend
next Saturday’s game; the new resident will receive an
updated driver’s license even if she is ineligible to vote.
What the plurality does not explain is why we should forgo the same
understanding of §1153(h)(3)’s relief clause when that
would treat the statute as a coherent whole (and when the
plurality’s alternative interpretation would render the
statute a walking self-contradiction within the span of a few
words).

															     With the text
unavailing, the plurality turns to a policy argument. The plurality
worries that if automatic conversion and priority date retention
are independent benefits, aged-out beneficiaries will be able to
“hold on to a priority date for years . . . while
waiting for a relative to file a new petition,” which might
hamper U. S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
operations. Ante, at 29–30. But the plurality’s fears
of administrative inconvenience are belied by the fact that USCIS
has administered prior-ity date retention in exactly this manner
for years, with no apparent problems. Well before §1153(h)(3)
was enacted, a regulation provided aged-out F2A derivative
beneficiaries the ability to retain their priority dates without
also providing automatic conversion. See 8 CFR §204.2(a)(4)
(permitting priority date retention after a “separate
petition” is filed); 57 Fed. Reg. 41053, 41059 (1992)
(adopting this provision). Indeed, the USCIS continues to instruct
field officers that a “separate petition” must be filed
in order for such beneficiaries to “retain” their
“original priority date[s].” Adjudicator’s Field
Manual, ch. 21.2(c)(5), online at
http://www.uscis.gov/iframe/ilink/docView/AFM/HTML/AFM/0-0-0-1.html
(all Internet materials as visited June 5, 2014, and available in
Clerk of Court’s case file). The notion that it is somehow
impossible for an immigrant to retain her priority date contingent
upon the filing of a separate petition is therefore contradicted by
years of agency experience.[4]

															     In the end, the
plurality suggests that we should defer to the BIA’s
all-or-nothing approach because “context compels” it.
Ante, at 28. Yet fatally absent from the plurality’s
discussion of context is any mention of the first clause of the
very same provision, which, as the plurality admits, unambiguously
confers relief upon all five categories of aged-out children. That
clause is dispositive, because—assuming that F2A
beneficiaries alone can receive automatic conversion—a
reading that treats automatic conversion and priority date
retention as independent benefits is the only one that would
“produc[e] a substantive effect that is compatible with the
rest of the law.” United Sav. Assn. of Tex. v. Timbers of
Inwood Forest Associates, Ltd., 484 U. S. 365, 371 (1988) ;
see also Home Builders, 551 U. S., at 666
(“ ‘It is a “fundamental canon of statutory
construction that the words of a statute must be read in their
context and with a view to their place in the overall statutory
scheme” ’ ”).

															2

															     Even if it were
somehow impossible for an aged-out child to retain her priority
date independently of auto-matic conversion, the plurality is wrong
to view automatic conversion as a benefit that F2A beneficiaries
alone may enjoy.

															     Section 1153(h)(3)
provides that if an aged-out child qualifies for relief under the
statute’s eligibility clause, “the alien’s
petition shall automatically be converted to the appropriate
category.” Whether an aged-out beneficiary in a given
preference category may enjoy this relief turns on how one
understands the words “automatically” and
“converted.” Because the statute does not define the
terms, we apply their ordinary meaning. See Burrage v. United
States, 571 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 6).

															     The ordinary meaning of
“automatic” is “ ‘having the
capability of starting, operating, moving, etc.,
independently’ ” based upon some predetermined
predicate event, with no “additional decisions,
contingencies, or delays.” Ante, at 15 (quoting Random House
Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary 140 (2d ed. 2001)). The
ordinary meaning of “convert” is “to change
(something) into a different form.” Id., at 444. Here, the
statute specifies the form into which an aged-out child’s
petition shall be changed: another petition in the
“appropriate category.” §1153(h)(3). Tying the
terms together, then, “automatic conversion” means
changing an old petition into a new petition in an appropriate
category upon the occurrenceof some predicate event, without a
further decision or contingency.

															     All aged-out
beneficiaries can have their petitions automatically converted
under this definition. Perhaps most sensibly, all five categories
of petitions may be converted to an appropriate category, without
any further decision or contingency, upon a logical predicate
event: when USCIS receives confirmation that an appropriate
category exists. To see how this would work, recall the case of
Norma Uy, and her daughter, Ruth. Norma was the principal
beneficiary of an F4 petition filed by her U. S. citizen
sister; Ruth was a derivative beneficiary of the same petition.
Because Ruth had aged out of derivative beneficiary status prior to
Norma’s reaching the front of the visa line, Norma immigrated
to the United States without Ruth. Once Norma became an LPR,
however, she also became eligible to file a new petition on
Ruth’s behalf underthe F2B category (unmarried adult children
of LPRs), §1153(a)(2)(B). Thus, once Norma provides
confirmation of that eligibility to sponsor Ruth (i.e., that she is
an LPR, that Ruth is her daughter, and that she has not committed
disqualifying criminal conduct, see ante, at 4), Ruth’s
original F4 petition can automatically be converted to an F2B
petition, with no additional decision or contingency.[5]

															     Indeed, this is how
USCIS already applies automatic conversion in other contexts. For
example, when an LPR has filed an F2A petition on behalf of a
spouse or child, and the LPR subsequently becomes a U. S.
citizen, a provision entitled “[a]utomatic conversion of
preference classification,” 8 CFR §204.2(i), permits the
F2A petition to be automatically converted to an “immediate
relative” petition, §204.2(i)(3). See ante, at 16.
Significantly, the predicate event that triggers this conversion is
the agency’s receipt of proof that the petition’s
sponsor has become a U. S. citizen—proof, in other
words, that there is an appropriate category into which the
petition can be converted.[6]
Section 1153(h)(3)’s automatic conversion remedy can sensibly
be administered in the same way.

															     The plurality’s
contrary conclusion that automatic conversion is impossible for all
but one category of family-preference petitions hinges on three
basic misunderstandings. First, the plurality contends that
automatic conversion is triggered not by confirmation of the
existence of an appropriate category, but rather by a different
predicate event: the moment when “ ‘an immigrant
visa number bec[omes] available for the alien’s
parent.’ ” Ante, at 19. This is a curious
argument, not least because nothing in §1153(h)(3) suggests
it. That provision simply makes automatic conversion available
“[i]f the age of an alien is determined” to be
“be 21 years of age or older” for pur-poses of
§1153(d). Section 1153(h)(3) thus states the condition that an
immigrant must satisfy to be eligible for automatic conversion, but
it nowhere commands when the conversion should occur. There is no
reason why conversion cannot occur at the logical point just
described: the moment when USCIS receives proof that an appropriate
category exists.

															     The plurality
acknowledges that §1153(h)(3) “does not explicitly
identify th[e] point in time” at which a “petition is
to be ‘converted.’ ” Ante, at 18. It
nevertheless suggests that the date when a conversion occurs
“is best viewed” as the date when a visa became
available for the aged-out child’s parent. Ante, at 19. But
Congress could not have intended conversion to occur at that point
for a glaring reason: The date on which a visa becomes available
for an aged-out child’s parent occurs before the point at
which the child is determined to have aged-out under
§1153(d)—the very requirement §1153(h)(3)
prescribes for the aged-out child to be eligible for automatic
conversion in the first place. As the plurality explains, ante, at
5–6, such age determinations occur when an immigration
official reviews the child’s derivative visa application,
which invariably happens after a visa became available for the
child’s parent as the principal beneficiary. At best, then,
the plurality’s interpretation requires USCIS to convert
petitions at a time when it does not know which petitions are
eligible for conversion; at worst, it requires the automatic
conversion of petitions benefiting immigrants who will never even
qualify for such relief (i.e., aged-out immigrants who, for any
number of reasons, never file a visa application and so are never
determined by officials to be older than 21).

															     Faced with this fact,
the plurality falls back to the position that automatic conversion
must merely be viewed as having occurred “as of th[e]
. . . date” when a parent’s visa becomes
available, although the actual “assess[ment]” of the
conversion will necessarily occur at some future point in time.
Ante, at 24, n. 13. That approach, however, introduces precisely
the kind of “additional decisions, contingencies, and
delays” that the plurality regards as inconsistent with the
ordinary meaning of “automatic,” ante, at 15. For even
under the plurality’s view, automatic conversion cannot
actually be “assesse[d]” until and unless the aged-out
child decides to apply for a visa and officials assessing the
child’s application deem her to have aged out (events which
may themselves be contingent on the child’s parent first
filing her own successful visa application, see ante, at 6). The
far simpler approach is for conversion to occur automatically upon
the most logical moment suggested by the statute: the moment when
USCIS confirms that an “appropriate category” exists,
§1153(h)(3). Indeed, the plurality fails to explain why this
cannot be the proper predicate; it simply dismisses such an
approach as supported “only” by “a single-minded
resolve . . . to grant relief to every possible aged-out
beneficiary.” Ante, at 25, n. 13. But that criticism is
revealing: The “single-minded resolve” the plurality
maligns is Congress’ own, for it is Congress that expressly
provided, in the eligibility clause, for aged-out beneficiaries in
all five categories to be granted relief.

															     The plurality’s
second argument is a corollary of its first. If automatic
conversion must occur when a visa first becomes available for a
parent, the plurality frets, that will mean an aged-out child will
have her petition automatically converted before immigration
officials can ascertain whether her parent is even qualified to
sponsor her. See ante, at 17–18. True enough, but that only
confirms that it makes no sense to force USCIS to convert petitions
so prematurely. The plurality’s fears can all be averted by
having automatic conversion occur, as with petitions sponsored by
LPRs who later become U. S. citizens, supra, at 13–15,
when USCIS receives confirmation that conversion is
appropriate.[7]

															     The plurality’s
final argument is that something about the term
“conversion” precludes relief for all but the aged-out
derivative beneficiaries of F2A petitions. The plurality accepts
that “conversion” will always require changing some
aspects of a petition, including its preference category (e.g.,
from F2A to F2B) and the identity of its principal beneficiary
(e.g., from an aged-out child’s parent to the child). But the
plurality asserts that a related kind of change is entirely off the
table: a change to the identity of the petition’s sponsor.
Ante, at 15. If a converted petition requires a different sponsor
than the original petition, the plurality suggests, then it cannot
be “converted” at all.

															     The plurality points to
nothing in the plain meaning of “conversion” that
supports this distinction. It instead argues that a
“conversion” cannot entail a change to the identity of
a petition’s sponsor because that is “the exclusive way
immigration law used the term when Congress enacted the
CSPA.” Ante, at 16. But immigration law has long allowed
petitions to be converted from one category to another in contexts
where doing so requires changing the sponsor’s identity. In
2006, for example, the Secretary of Homeland Security promulgated a
regulatory provision entitled “automatic conversion of
preference classification,” 8 CFR §204.2(i)(1)(iv),
which allows the automatic conversion of a petition filed by a
U. S. citizen on behalf of her spouse to a widower petition if
the citizen dies before the petition is approved. That conversion
requires changing the sponsor from the citizen to the widower
himself. The fact that the agency used the word
“conversion” to refer to a process in which the
petition’s sponsor was changed, just a few years after 8
U. S. C. §1153(h)(3) was enacted, strongly suggests
that the term did not have the exclusive meaning that the plurality
suggests. Similarly, §1154(a)(1)(D)(i)(III), a provision
enacted two years before §1153(h)(3), see Victims of
Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000, 114Stat. 1522,
provides that a petition filed by a battered spouse on behalf of
her child “shall be considered” a self-petition filed
by the child herself if the child ages out—a conversion that
obviously requires changing the identity of the sponsor from the
battered spouse to the aged-out child. And §1153(h)(4)
confirms that such “self-petitioners” are entitled to
§1153(h)(3)’s automatic conversion remedy. The plurality
never explains how it can be mandatory to “convert” the
identity of the sponsors in these contexts yet impermissible to
“convert” the sponsors of the petitions at issue
here—an understanding that is especially implausible in light
of Congress’ command that such petitions “shall
automatically be converted to the appropriate category.”
§1153(h)(3).[8]

															III

															     The concurrence
reaches the same result as the plural-ity does, but for a different
reason. It begins by recognizing that §1153(h)(3)’s
eligibility clause “states a condition” that is
satisfied by aged-out “beneficiaries from any preference
category.” Ante, at 2 (Roberts, C. J., concurring in
judgment). The concurrence thus acknowledges that the eligibility
clause encompasses aged-out beneficiaries of family-preference
petitions in the F1, F2A, F2B, F3, and F4 categories.

															     The concurrence
nonetheless concludes that the BIA was free to exclude F1, F2B, F3,
and F4 beneficiaries from the clear scope of the eligibility clause
because of a perceived ambiguity as to which beneficiaries can
receive “automatic conversion.” See ante, at 4
(“Congress did not speak clearly to which petitions can
 ‘automatically be converted’ ”). In
other words, the concurrence concludes that it was reasonable for
the agency to ignore the clear text of the eligibility clause
because the phrase “automatic conversion” might be read
in a manner that would benefit F2A beneficiaries alone.

															     This is an unusual way
to interpret a statute. The concurrence identifies no case in which
we have deferred to an agency’s decision to use ambiguity in
one portion of a statute as a license to ignore another statutory
provision that is perfectly clear. To the contrary, “[a]
provision that may seem ambiguous in isolation is often clarified
by the remainder of the statutory scheme . . . because
only one of the permissible meanings produces a substantive effect
that is compatible with the rest of the law.” United Sav.
Assn. of Tex., 484 U. S., at 371.

															     The concurrence
justifies its conclusion only by treating the eligibility clause as
a nullity. The concurrence is quite candid about its approach,
arguing that §1153(h)(3)’s relief clause is its
“only operative provision” and that the eligibility
clause does not “grant anything to anyone.” Ante, at 3.
Yet “[i]t is our duty ‘to give effect, if possible, to
every clause and word of a statute.’ ” United
States v. Menasche, 348 U. S. 528 –539 (1955). And there
is an easy way to give meaning to the eligibility clause: The
clause identifies who is entitled to the benefits specified in the
ensuing relief clause.

															     The concurrence relies
ultimately on an irrelevant hypothetical: “If a student is
determined to be enrolled at an accredited university, the
student’s cost of off-campus housing shall be deductible on
her tax return.” Ante, at 3. In this example, the concurrence
points out, it is “apparent. . . that an enrolled
student who lives on campus is not entitled to the deduction, even
though the student falls within the conditional first
clause.” Ibid. That is correct, but it says nothing about
this case. For in the hypothetical, it is plain that the promised
relief (a tax deduction for off-campus housing) cannot apply to the
persons at issue (students who live on campus). Here, however, the
relief promised in §1153(h)(3) (priority date retention and
automatic conversion) can be given to persons specified inthe
initial eligibility clause (aged-out children in all five
family-preference categories). See supra, at 9–19. And once
one recognizes that aged-out children in each cate-gory
unambiguously covered by the eligibility clause can receive relief,
the BIA’s view that no children in four of those categories
can ever receive any relief cannot be reasonable.[9]

															*  *  *

															     Congress faced a
difficult choice when it enacted §1153(h)(3). Given the
“zero-sum world of allocating a limited number of
visas,” ante, at 33, Congress could have required aged-out
children like Ruth Uy to lose their place in line and wait many
additional years (or even decades) before being reunited with their
parents, or it could have enabled such immigrants to retain their
place in line—albeit at the cost of extending the wait for
other immigrants by some shorter amount. Whatever one might think
of the policy arguments on each side, however, this much is clear:
Congress made a choice. The plurality’s contrary
view—that Congress actually delegated the choice to the BIA
in a statute that unambiguously encompasses aged-out children in
all five preference categories and commands that they “shall
retain the[ir] original priority date[s],”
§1153(h)(3)—is untenable.

															     In the end, then, this
case should have been resolved under a commonsense approach to
statutory interpretation: Using traditional tools of statutory
construction, agencies and courts should try to give effect to a
statute’s clear text before concluding that Congress has
legislated in conflicting and unintelligible terms. Here, there are
straightforward interpretations of §1153(h)(3) that allow it
to function as a coherent whole. Because the BIA and the Court
ignore these interpretations and advance a construction that
contravenes the language Congress wrote, I respectfully
dissent.

Notes
1
 The five categories are
F1 (unmarried adult children of U. S. citizens); F2A (spouses
and unmarried minor children of LPRs); F2B (unmarried adult
children of LPRs); F3 (married children of U. S. citizens);
and F4 (brothers and sisters of U. S. citizens). 8
U. S. C. §§1153(a)(1)–(4).
2
 As the plurality
explains, at 9–10, the formula specified in paragraph (1)
subtracts out bureaucratic delays resulting from the
Government’s review of the relevant immigration paperwork.
That formula is not at issue in this case.
3
 To understand the kind of
conflict that can make deference appropriate to an agency’s
decision to override unambiguous statutory text, consider the
provisions at issue in v. , . One provision, §402(b) of the
Clean Water Act, , commanded, “without qualification, that
the [Environmental Protection Agency] ‘shall approve’ a
transfer application” whenever nine exclusive criteria were
satisfied. 551 U. S., at 661. A second provision,
§7(a)(2) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, , was
“similarly imperative,” ordering “ ‘[e]ach
Federal agency’ ” to ensure that its actions were
“ ‘not likely to jeopardize’ ” an
endangered species. 551 U. S., at 662. “[A]pplying
[§7(a)(2)’s] language literally,” we observed,
would contravene the “mandatory and exclusive list of [nine]
criteria set forth in §402(b),” because it would
“engraf[t] a tenth criterion onto” the statute. ., at
662–663. The agency accordingly could not
“simultaneously obey” both commands: It could consider
9 criteria or 10, but not both. ., at 666. In that circumstance, we
found it appropriate to defer to the agency’s choice as to
“which command must give way.”
4
 The plurality does not
dispute that USCIS has administered priority date retention as a
form of relief independent from automatic conversion for years. at
30, n. 16. It nonetheless argues that the same approach is
impermissible here for the counterintuitive reason that a
pre-existing regulation used express language limiting priority
date retention to derivative beneficiaries of F2A petitions alone.
See at 30, n. 16(noting that 8 CFR §204.2(a)(4) permitted
an aged-out beneficiary to retain her priority date
“ ‘if the subsequent petition is filed by the same
petitioner’ ”). Congress included no such language
to limit the scope of priority date retention in , however, which
just reinforces what the eligibility clause already makes clear:
Priority date retention is independently available for aged-out
de-rivative beneficiaries of all family-preference petitions, not
just F2A petitions.
5
 Of course, just like any
other beneficiary of a family visa petition, one whose petition has
been automatically converted must still satisfy the requirements
for actually obtaining a visa. See at 5. For example, all visa
applicants must attach an “affidavit of support” from
their sponsors. . As is true for any other beneficiary, nothing
stops a sponsor from declining to swear their support for the
beneficiary of an automatically converted petition after a visa has
become available. Converting petitions upon proof of an appropriate
category therefore produces no uncertainties or contingencies that
do not already exist for all family visa applicants to begin
with.
6
 See Dept. of State, If
You Were an LPR and Are Now a U. S. Citizen: Upgrading a Petition,
online at
http://travel.state.gov/visa/immigrants/‌types/types_2991.html#5.
The regulation cited by the plurality, 8 CFR §204.2(i), is not
to the contrary; it merely establishes that when an automatic
conversion occurs, it shall be treated as “[e]ffective upon
the date of naturalization,” §204.2(i)(3). As the State
Department’s instructions make clear, the conversion itself
takes place after the new citizen “send[s] proof of [her]
U. S. citizenship to the National Visa Center.” Dept. of
State, If You Were an LPR and Are Now a U. S. Citizen:
Upgrading a Petition.
7
 The plurality is
unsatisfied with this approach to automatic conversion on the
theory that, in order to eliminate all additional “decisions,
contingencies, or delays” in the process, this solution
postpones the moment of “conversion” until the
necessary contingencies are satisfied. Yet the plurality’s
approach does the same thing, because even on its account, some
“decisions, contingencies, or delays” must occur before
conversion can actually be assessed by immigration officials ( a
parent’s visa must become available, the child must apply for
a visa, and immigration officials must deem her to have aged out,
see , at 16). So the only question is whether the
“conversion” should be considered to occur after all
“decisions, contingencies, or delays” are in the past
such that there is an appropriate category for conversion, or after
only some. The former understanding would allow the unambiguous
language of the eligibility clause to be carried into effect; the
latter would preclude relief for four categories of derivative
beneficiaries. In support of its restrictive interpretation, the
plurality offers only the argument that converting a petition upon
proof of an appropriate category would require the “filing of
a new document. . . that shows the parent’s
eligibility to sponsor her aged-out [child].” , at 26, n. 14.
The fact that a statute may require an agency to process a form is
not a reason to disregard a coherent reading of a statute in favor
of a self-contradictory one.
8
 Moreover, had Congress
actually intended to permit relief only where a new petition has
the same sponsor as the original petition, it had a ready model in
the language of a pre-existing regulation. See 8 CFR
§204.2(a)(4) (conferring priority date retention on a
derivative beneficiary only “if the subsequent petition is
filed by the same petitioner”). If it had wanted to limit
§1153(h)(3) to just the beneficiaries preferred by the BIA,
“Congress could easily have said so.” v. ,
.
9
 More fundamentally, the
concurrence’s hypothetical is irrelevant because it
altogether ignores a critical feature of the statute before us:
§1153(h)(2)’s express enumeration of the covered
petitions to include petitions filed within the F1, F2A, F2B, F3,
and F4 preference categories. See at 5–6. A proper analogy
would therefore be a provision that says the following: “If a
student is determined to be enrolled at an accredited junior
college, community college, or 4-year college, the student’s
room and board shall be tax-deductible and the student shall
receive financial aid.” Is there any permissible reading of
this provision under which, although expressly covered in the
eligibility clause, all junior and community college students are
categorically forbidden to receive the tax deduction and financial
aid? Of course not. And that would be true even if the term
“room and board” were ambiguous and thus open to an
interpretation under which only 4-year students could receive the
tax deduction. Likewise here, where F1, F2B, F3, and F4 derivative
beneficiaries may not be categorically excluded from relief because
they are indisputably covered by §1153(h)(3)’s
eligibility clause and able to receive the relief described in the
relief clause.


