::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-070
::decision_cite:: 573 U.S. 682 (2014)
::decision_name::  Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Stores, Inc.
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Ginsburg
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 13–354 and 13–356

															_________________

															SYLVIA BURWELL, SECRETARY OF HEALTHAND
HUMAN SERVICES, et al., PETITIONERS

															13–354      v.

															HOBBY LOBBY STORES, INC.,
et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
courtof appeals for the tenth circuit

															and

															CONESTOGA WOOD SPECIALTIES
CORPORATIONet al., PETITIONERS

															13–356      v.

															SYLVIA BURWELL, SECRETARY OF HEALTHAND
HUMAN SERVICES, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
courtof appeals for the third circuit

															[June 30, 2014]

															

															     Justice Ginsburg,
with whom Justice Sotomayor joins, and with whom Justice Breyer and
Justice Kagan join as to all but Part III–C–1,
dissenting.

															     In a decision of
startling breadth, the Court holds that commercial enterprises,
including corporations, along with partnerships and sole
proprietorships, can opt out of any law (saving only tax laws) they
judge incompatible with their sincerely held religious beliefs. See
ante, at 16–49. Compelling governmental interests in uniform
compliance with the law, and disadvantages that religion-based
opt-outs impose on others, hold no sway, the Court decides, at
least when there is a “less restrictive alternative.”
And such an alternative, the Court suggests, there always will be
whenever, in lieu of tolling an enterprise claiming a
religion-based exemption, the government, i.e., the general public,
can pick up the tab. See ante, at 41–43.[1]

															     The Court does not
pretend that the First Amendment’s Free Exercise Clause
demands religion-based accommodations so extreme, for our decisions
leave no doubt on that score. See infra, at 6–8. Instead, the
Court holds that Congress, in the Religious Freedom Restoration Act
of 1993 (RFRA), 42 U. S. C. §2000bb et seq.,
dictated the extraordinary religion-based exemptions today’s
decision endorses. In the Court’s view, RFRA demands
accommodation of a for-profit corporation’s religious beliefs
no matter the impact that accommodation may have on third parties
who do not share the corporation owners’ religious
faith—in these cases, thousands of women employed by Hobby
Lobby and Conestoga or dependents of persons those corporations
employ. Persuaded that Congress enacted RFRA to serve a far less
radical purpose, and mindful of the havoc the Court’s
judgment can introduce, I dissent.

															I

															     “The ability of
women to participate equally in the economic and social life of the
Nation has been facilitated by their ability to control their
reproductive lives.” Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa.
v. Casey, 505 U. S. 833, 856 (1992) . Congress acted on that
understanding when, as part of a nationwide insurance program
intended to be comprehensive, it called for coverage of preventive
care responsive to women’s needs. Carrying out
Congress’ direction, the Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS), in consultation with public health experts,
promulgated regulations requiring group health plans to cover all
forms of contraception approved by the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA). The genesis of this coverage should enlighten the
Court’s resolution of these cases.

															A

															     The Affordable Care
Act (ACA), in its initial form, specified three categories of
preventive care that health plans must cover at no added cost to
the plan participant or beneficiary.[2] Particular services were to be recommended by the
U. S. Preventive Services Task Force, an independent panel of
experts. The scheme had a large gap, how-ever; it left out
preventive services that “many women’s health advocates
and medical professionals believe are critically important.”
155 Cong. Rec. 28841 (2009) (statement of Sen. Boxer). To correct
this oversight, Senator Barbara Mikulski introduced the
Women’s Health Amendment, which added to the ACA’s
minimum coverage requirements a new category of preventive services
specific to women’s health.

															     Women paid
significantly more than men for preventive care, the
amendment’s proponents noted; in fact, cost barriers operated
to block many women from obtaining needed care at all. See, e.g.,
id., at 29070 (statement of Sen. Feinstein) (“Women of
childbearing age spend 68 percent more in out-of-pocket health care
costs than men.”); id., at 29302 (statement of Sen. Mikulski)
(“copayments are [often] so high that [women] avoid getting
[preventive and screening services] in the first place”). And
increased access to contraceptive services, the sponsors
comprehended, would yield important public health gains. See, e.g.,
id., at 29768 (statement of Sen. Durbin) (“This bill will
expand health insurance coverage to the vast majority of [the 17
million women of reproductive age in the United States who are
uninsured] . . . . This expanded access will reduce
unintended pregnancies.”).

															     As altered by the
Women’s Health Amendment’s passage, the ACA requires
new insurance plans to include coverage without cost sharing of
“such additional preventive care and screenings
. . . as provided for in comprehensive guidelines
supported by the Health Resources and Services Administration
[(HRSA)],” a unit of HHS. 42 U. S. C.
§300gg–13(a)(4). Thus charged, the HRSA developed
recommendations in consultation with the Institute of Medicine
(IOM). See 77 Fed. Reg. 8725–8726 (2012).[3] The IOM convened a group of independent
experts, including “specialists in disease prevention [and]
women’s health”; those experts prepared a report
evaluating the efficacy of a number of preventive services. IOM,
Clinical Prevention Services for Women: Closing the Gaps 2 (2011)
(hereinafter IOM Report). Consistent with the findings of
“[n]umerous health professional associations” and other
organizations, the IOM experts determined that preventive coverage
should include the “full range” of FDA-approved
contraceptive methods. Id., at 10. See also id., at
102–110.

															     In making that
recommendation, the IOM’s report expressed concerns similar
to those voiced by congres-sional proponents of the Women’s
Health Amendment. The report noted the disproportionate burden
women carried for comprehensive health services and the adverse
health consequences of excluding contraception from preventive care
available to employees without cost sharing. See, e.g., id., at 19
(“[W]omen are consistently more likely than men to report a
wide range of cost-related barriers to receiving . . .
medical tests and treatments and to filling prescriptions for
themselves and their families.”); id., at 103–104, 107
(pregnancy may be contraindicated forwomen with certain medical
conditions, for example, some congenital heart diseases, pulmonary
hypertension, and Marfan syndrome, and contraceptives may be used
to reduce risk of endometrial cancer, among other serious medical
conditions); id., at 103 (women with unintended pregnancies are
more likely to experience depression and anxiety, and their
children face “increased odds of preterm birth and low birth
weight”).

															     In line with the
IOM’s suggestions, the HRSA adopted guidelines recommending
coverage of “[a]ll [FDA-]approved contraceptive methods,
sterilization procedures, and patient education and counseling for
all women with reproductive capacity.”[4] Thereafter, HHS, the Department of Labor, and
the Department of Treasury promulgated regulations requiring group
health plans to include coverage of the contraceptive services
recommended in the HRSA guidelines, subject to certain exceptions,
described infra, at 25–27.[5] This opinion refers to these regulations as the
contraceptive coverage requirement.

															B

															     While the
Women’s Health Amendment succeeded, a countermove proved
unavailing. The Senate voted down the so-called “conscience
amendment,” which would have enabled any employer or
insurance provider to deny coverage based on its asserted
“religious beliefs or moral convictions.” 158 Cong.
Rec. S539 (Feb. 9, 2012); see id., at S1162–S1173 (Mar. 1,
2012) (debate and vote).[6]
That amendment, Senator Mikulski observed, would have “pu[t]
the personal opinion of employers and insurers over the practice of
medicine.” Id., at S1127 (Feb. 29, 2012). Rejecting the
“conscience amendment,” Congress left health care
decisions—including the choice among contraceptive
methods—in the hands of women, with the aid of their health
care providers.

															II

															     Any First Amendment
Free Exercise Clause claim Hobby Lobby or Conestoga[7] might assert is foreclosed by this
Court’s decision in Employment Div., Dept. of Human Resources
of Ore. v. Smith, 494 U. S. 872 (1990) . In Smith, two members
of the Native American Church were dismissed from their jobs and
denied unemployment benefits because they ingested peyote at, and
as an essential element of, a religious ceremony. Oregon law
forbade the consumption of peyote, and this Court, relying on that
prohibition, rejected the employees’ claim that the denial of
unemployment benefits violated their free exercise rights. The
First Amendment is not offended, Smith held, when
“prohibiting the exercise of religion . . . is not
the object of [governmental regulation] but merely the incidental
effect of a generally applicable and otherwise valid
provision.” Id., at 878; see id., at 878–879 (“an
individ-ual’s religious beliefs [do not] excuse him from
compliance with an otherwise valid law prohibiting conduct that the
State is free to regulate”). The ACA’s contraceptive
coverage requirement applies generally, it is “otherwise
valid,” it trains on women’s well being, not on the
exerciseof religion, and any effect it has on such exercise
isincidental.

															     Even if Smith did not
control, the Free Exercise Clause would not require the exemption
Hobby Lobby and Conestoga seek. Accommodations to religious beliefs
or observances, the Court has clarified, must not significantly
impinge on the interests of third parties.[8]

															     The exemption sought by
Hobby Lobby and Conestoga would override significant interests of
the corporations’ employees and covered dependents. It would
deny legions of women who do not hold their employers’
beliefs access to contraceptive coverage that the ACA would
otherwise secure. See Catholic Charities of Sacramento, Inc. v.
Superior Court, 32 Cal. 4th 527, 565, 85 P. 3d 67, 93 (2004)
(“We are unaware of any decision in which . . .
[the U. S. Supreme Court] has exempted a religious objector
from the operation of a neutral, generally applicable law despite
the recognition that the requested exemption would detrimentally
affect the rights of third parties.”). In sum, with respect
to free exercise claims no less than free speech claims,
“ ‘[y]our right to swing your arms ends just where
the other man’s nose begins.’ ” Chafee,
Freedom of Speech in War Time, 32 Harv. L. Rev. 932, 957
(1919).

															III

															A

															     Lacking a tenable
claim under the Free Exercise Clause, Hobby Lobby and Conestoga
rely on RFRA, a statute instructing that “[g]overnment shall
not substantially burden a person’s exercise of religion even
if the burden results from a rule of general applicability”
unless the government shows that application of the burden is
“the least restrictive means” to further a
“compelling governmental interest.” 42
U. S. C. §2000bb–1(a), (b)(2). In RFRA,
Congress “adopt[ed] a statutory rule comparable to the
constitutional rule rejected in Smith.” Gonzales v. O Centro
Espírita Beneficente União do Vegetal, 546 U. S.
418, 424 (2006) .

															     RFRA’s purpose is
specific and written into the statute itself. The Act was crafted
to “restore the compelling interest test as set forth in
Sherbert v. Verner, 374 U. S. 398 (1963) and Wisconsin v.
Yoder, 406 U. S. 205 (1972) and to guarantee its application
in all cases where free exercise of religion is substantially
burdened.” §2000bb(b)(1).[9] See also §2000bb(a)(5) (“[T]he compelling
interest test as set forth in prior Federal court rulings isa
workable test for striking sensible balances between religious
liberty and competing prior governmental in-terests.”); ante,
at 48 (agreeing that the pre-Smith compelling interest test is
“workable” and “strike[s] sensible
balances”).

															     The legislative history
is correspondingly emphatic on RFRA’s aim. See, e.g.,
S. Rep. No. 103–111, p. 12 (1993) (hereinafter
Senate Report) (RFRA’s purpose was “only to overturn
the Supreme Court’s decision in Smith,” not to
“unsettle other areas of the law.”); 139 Cong. Rec.
26178 (1993) (statement of Sen. Kennedy) (RFRA was “designed
to restore the compelling interest test for deciding free exercise
claims.”). In line with this restorative purpose, Congress
expected courts considering RFRA claims to “look to free
exercise cases decided prior to Smith for guidance.” Senate
Report 8. See also H. R. Rep. No. 103–88,
pp. 6–7 (1993) (hereinafter House Report) (same). In
short, the Act reinstates the law as it was prior to Smith, without
“creat[ing] . . . new rights for any religious
practice or for any potential litigant.” 139 Cong. Rec. 26178
(statement of Sen. Kennedy). Given the Act’s moderate
purpose, it is hardly surprising that RFRA’s enactment in
1993 provoked little controversy. See Brief for Senator Murray
et al. as Amici Curiae 8 (hereinafter Senators Brief )
(RFRA was approved by a 97-to-3 vote in the Senate and a voice vote
in the House of Representatives).

															B

															     Despite these
authoritative indications, the Court sees RFRA as a bold initiative
departing from, rather than restoring, pre-Smith jurisprudence. See
ante, at 6, n. 3, 7, 17, 25–27. To support its
conception of RFRA as a measure detached from this Court’s
decisions, one that sets a new course, the Court points first to
the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act of 2000
(RLUIPA), 42 U. S. C. §2000cc et seq., which
altered RFRA’s definition of the term “exercise of
religion.” RFRA, as originally enacted, defined that term to
mean “the exercise of religion under the First Amendment to
the Constitution.” §2000bb–2(4) (1994 ed.). See
ante, at 6–7. As amended by RLUIPA, RFRA’s definition
now includes “any exercise of religion, whether or not
compelled by, or central to, a system of religious belief.”
§2000bb–2(4) (2012 ed.) (cross-referencing
§2000cc–5). That definitional change, according to the
Court, reflects “an obvious effort to effect a complete
separation from First Amendment case law.” Ante, at 7.

															     The Court’s
reading is not plausible. RLUIPA’s alteration clarifies that
courts should not question the centrality of a particular religious
exercise. But the amendment in no way suggests that Congress meant
to expand the class of entities qualified to mount religious
accommodation claims, nor does it relieve courts of the obligation
to inquire whether a government action substantially burdens a
religious exercise. See Rasul v. Myers, 563 F. 3d 527, 535
(CADC 2009) (Brown, J., concurring) (“There is no doubt that
RLUIPA’s drafters, in changing the definition of
‘exercise of religion,’ wanted to broaden the scope of
the kinds of practices protected by RFRA, not increase the universe
of individuals protected by RFRA.”); H. R. Rep. No.
106–219, p. 30 (1999). See also Gilardi v. United States
Dept. of Health and Human Servs., 733 F. 3d 1208, 1211 (CADC
2013) (RFRA, as amended, “provides us with no helpful
definition of ‘exercise of religion.’ ”);
Henderson v. Kennedy, 265 F. 3d 1072, 1073 (CADC 2001)
(“The [RLUIPA] amendments did not alter RFRA’s basic
prohibition that the ‘[g]overnment shall not substantially
burden a person’s exercise of
religion.’ ”).[10]

															     Next, the Court
highlights RFRA’s requirement that the government, if its
action substantially burdens a person’s religious observance,
must demonstrate that it chose the least restrictive means for
furthering a compelling interest. “[B]y imposing a
least-restrictive-means test,” the Court suggests, RFRA
“went beyond what was required by our pre-Smith
decisions.” Ante, at 17, n. 18 (citing City of Boerne v.
Flores, 521 U. S. 507 (1997) ). See also ante, at 6,
n. 3. But as RFRA’s statements of purpose and
legislative history make clear, Congress intended only to restore,
not to scrap or alter, the balancing test as this Court had applied
it pre-Smith. See supra, at 8–9. See also Senate Report 9
(RFRA’s “compelling interest test generally should not
be construed more stringently or more leniently than it was prior
to Smith.”); House Report 7 (same).

															     The Congress that
passed RFRA correctly read this Court’s pre-Smith case law as
including within the “compelling interest test” a
“least restrictive means” requirement. See, e.g.,
Senate Report 5 (“Where [a substantial] burden is placed upon
the free exercise of religion, the Court ruled [in Sherbert], the
Government must demonstrate that it is the least restrictive means
to achieve a compelling governmental interest.”). And the
view that the pre-Smith test included a “least restrictive
means” requirement had been aired in testimony before the
Senate Judiciary Committee by experts on religious freedom. See,
e.g., Hearing on S. 2969 before the Senate Committee on the
Judiciary, 102d Cong., 2d Sess., 78–79 (1993) (statement of
Prof. Douglas Laycock).

															     Our decision in City of
Boerne, it is true, states that the least restrictive means
requirement “was not used in the pre-Smith jurisprudence RFRA
purported to codify.” See ante, at 6, n. 3, 17,
n. 18. As just indicated, however, that statement does not
accurately convey the Court’s pre-Smith jurisprudence. See
Sherbert, 374 U. S., at 407 (“[I]t would plainly be
incumbent upon the [government] to demonstrate that no alternative
forms of regulation would combat [the problem] without infringing
First Amendment rights.”); Thomas v. Review Bd. of Indiana
Employment Security Div., 450 U. S. 707, 718 (1981)
(“The state may justify an inroad on religious liberty by
showing that it is the least restrictive means of achieving some
compelling state interest.”). See also Berg, The New Attacks
on Religious Freedom Legislation and Why They Are Wrong, 21 Cardozo
L. Rev. 415, 424 (1999) (“In Boerne, the Court
erroneously said that the least restrictive means test ‘was
not used in the pre-Smith
jurisprudence.’ ”).[11]

															C

															     With RFRA’s
restorative purpose in mind, I turn to the Act’s application
to the instant lawsuits. That task, in view of the positions taken
by the Court, requires consideration of several questions, each
potentially dispositive of Hobby Lobby’s and
Conestoga’s claims: Do for-profit corporations rank among
“person[s]” who “exercise . . .
religion”? Assuming that they do, does the contraceptive
coverage requirement “substantially burden” their
religious exercise? If so, is the requirement “in furtherance
of a compelling government interest”? And last, does the
requirement represent the least restrictive means for furthering
that interest?

															     Misguided by its errant
premise that RFRA moved beyond the pre-Smith case law, the Court
falters at each step of its analysis.

															1

															     RFRA’s
compelling interest test, as noted, see supra, at 8, applies to
government actions that “substantially burden a
person’s exercise of religion.” 42 U. S. C.
§2000bb–1(a) (emphasis added). This reference, the Court
submits, incorporates the definition of “person” found
in the Dictionary Act, 1 U. S. C. §1, which extends
to “corporations, companies, associations, firms,
partnerships, societies, and joint stock companies, as well as
individuals.” See ante, at 19–20. The Dictionary
Act’s definition, however, controls only where
“context” does not “indicat[e] otherwise.”
§1. Here, context does so indicate. RFRA speaks of “a
person’s exercise of religion.” 42 U. S. C.
§2000bb–1(a) (emphasis added). See also
§§2000bb–2(4), 2000cc–5(7)(a).[12] Whether a corporation qualifies as a
“person” capable of exercis-ing religion is an inquiry
one cannot answer without reference to the “full body”
of pre-Smith “free-exercise caselaw.” Gilardi, 733
F. 3d, at 1212. There is in that case law no support for the
notion that free exercise rights pertain to for-profit
corporations.

															     Until this litigation,
no decision of this Court recognized a for-profit
corporation’s qualification for a religious exemption from a
generally applicable law, whether under the Free Exercise Clause or
RFRA.[13] The absence of
such precedent is just what one would expect, for the exercise of
religion is characteristic of natural persons, not artificial legal
entities. As Chief Justice Marshall observed nearly two centuries
ago, a corporation is “an artificial being, invisible,
intangible, and existing only in contemplation of law.”
Trustees of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 636
(1819). Corporations, Justice Stevens more recently reminded,
“have no consciences, no beliefs, no feelings, no thoughts,
no desires.” Citizens United v. Federal Election
Comm’n, 558 U. S. 310, 466 (2010) (opinion concurring in
part and dissenting in part).

															     The First
Amendment’s free exercise protections, the Court has indeed
recognized, shelter churches and other nonprofit religion-based
organizations.[14]
“For many individuals, religious activity derives meaning in
large measure from participation in a larger religious
community,” and “furtherance of the autonomy of
religious organizations often furthers individual religious freedom
as well.” Corporation of Presiding Bishop of Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints v. Amos, 483 U. S. 327, 342 (1987)
(Brennan, J., concurring in judgment). The Court’s
“special solicitude to the rights of religious
organizations,” Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and
School v. EEOC, 565 U. S. ___, ___ (2012) (slip op., at 14),
how-ever, is just that. No such solicitude is traditional for
com-mercial organizations.[15] Indeed, until today, religious exemptions had never
been extended to any entity operating in “the commercial,
profit-making world.” Amos, 483 U. S., at 337.[16]

															     The reason why is
hardly obscure. Religious organizations exist to foster the
interests of persons subscribing to the same religious faith. Not
so of for-profit corporations. Workers who sustain the operations
of those corporations commonly are not drawn from one religious
community. Indeed, by law, no religion-based criterion can restrict
the work force of for-profit corporations. See 42
U. S. C. §§2000e(b), 2000e–1(a),
2000e–2(a); cf. Trans World Airlines, Inc. v. Hardison, 432
U. S. 63 –81 (1977) (Title VII requires reasonable
accommodation of an employee’s religious exercise, but such
accommodation must not come “at the expense of other[
employees]”). The distinction between a community made up of
believers in the same religion and one embracing persons of diverse
beliefs, clear as it is, constantly escapes the Court’s
attention.[17] One can only
wonder why the Court shuts this key difference from sight.

															     Reading RFRA, as the
Court does, to require extension of religion-based exemptions to
for-profit corporations surely is not grounded in the pre-Smith
precedent Congress sought to preserve. Had Congress intended RFRA
to initiate a change so huge, a clarion statement to that effect
likely would have been made in the legislation. See Whitman v.
American Trucking Assns., Inc., 531 U. S. 457, 468 (2001)
(Congress does not “hide elephants in mouseholes”). The
text of RFRA makes no such statement and the legislative history
does not so much as mention for-profit corporations. See Hobby
Lobby Stores, Inc. v. Sebelius, 723 F. 3d 1114, 1169 (CA10
2013) (Briscoe, C. J., concurring in part and dissenting in
part) (legislative record lacks “any suggestion that Congress
foresaw, let alone intended that, RFRA would cover for-profit
corporations”). See also Senators Brief 10–13 (none of
thecases cited in House or Senate Judiciary Committeereports
accompanying RFRA, or mentioned during floor speeches, recognized
the free exercise rights of for-profit corporations).

															     The Court notes that
for-profit corporations may support charitable causes and use their
funds for religious ends, and therefore questions the distinction
between such corporations and religious nonprofit organizations.
See ante, at 20–25. See also ante, at 3 (Kennedy, J.,
concurring) (criticizing the Government for “distinguishing
between different religious believers—burdening one while
accommodating the other—when it may treat both equally by
offering both of them the same accommodation”).[18] Again, the Court forgets that
religious organizations exist to serve a community of believers.
For-profit corporations do not fit that bill. Moreover, history is
not on the Court’s side. Recognition of the discrete
characters of “ecclesiastical and lay” corporations
dates back to Blackstone, see 1 W. Blackstone, Commentaries on the
Laws of England 458 (1765), and was reiterated by this Court
centuries before the enactment of the Internal Revenue Code. See
Terrett v. Taylor, 9 Cranch 43, 49 (1815) (describing religious
corporations); Trustees of Dartmouth College, 4 Wheat., at 645
(discussing “eleemosynary” corporations, including
those “created for the promotion of religion”). To
reiterate, “for-profit corporations are different from
religious non-profits in that they use labor to make a profit,
rather than to perpetuate [the] religious value[s] [shared by a
community of believers].” Gilardi, 733 F. 3d, at 1242
(Edwards, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (emphasis
deleted).

															     Citing Braunfeld v.
Brown, 366 U. S. 599 (1961) , the Court questions why, if
“a sole proprietorship that seeks to make a profit may assert
a free-exercise claim, [Hobby Lobby and Conestoga] can’t
. . . do the same?” Ante, at 22 (footnote omitted).
See also ante, at 16–17. But even accepting, arguendo, the
premise that unincorporated business enterprises may gain religious
accommodations under the Free Exercise Clause, the Court’s
conclusion is unsound. In a sole proprietorship, the business and
its owner are one and the same. By incorporating a business,
however, an individual separates herself from the entity and
escapes personal responsibility for the entity’s obligations.
One might ask why the separation should hold only when it serves
the interest of those who control the corporation. In any event,
Braunfeld is hardly impressive authority for the entitlement Hobby
Lobby and Conestoga seek. The free exercise claim asserted there
was promptly rejected on the merits.

															     The Court’s
determination that RFRA extends to for-profit corporations is bound
to have untoward effects. Although the Court attempts to cabin its
language to closely held corporations, its logic extends to
corporations of any size, public or private.[19] Little doubt that RFRA claims will
proliferate, for the Court’s expansive notion of corporate
personhood—combined with its other errorsin construing
RFRA—invites for-profit entities to seek religion-based
exemptions from regulations they deem offensive to their faith.

															2

															     Even if Hobby Lobby
and Conestoga were deemed RFRA “person[s],” to gain an
exemption, they must demonstrate that the contraceptive coverage
requirement “substan-tially burden[s] [their] exercise of
religion.” 42 U. S. C. §2000bb–1(a).
Congress no doubt meant the modifier “substantially” to
carry weight. In the original draft of RFRA, the word
“burden” appeared unmodified. The word
“substantially” was inserted pursuant to a clarifying
amendment offered by Senators Kennedy and Hatch. See 139 Cong. Rec.
26180. In proposing the amendment, Senator Kennedy stated that
RFRA, in accord with the Court’s pre-Smith case law,
“does not require the Government to justify every action that
has some effect on religious exercise.” Ibid.

															     The Court barely pauses
to inquire whether any burden imposed by the contraceptive coverage
requirement is substantial. Instead, it rests on the Greens’
and Hahns’ “belie[f ] that providing the coverage
demanded by the HHS regulations is connected to the destruction of
an embryo in a way that is sufficient to make it immoral for them
to provide the coverage.” Ante, at 36.[20] I agree with the Court that the Green and
Hahn families’ religious convictions regarding contraception
are sincerely held. See Thomas, 450 U. S., at 715 (courts are
not to question where an individual “dr[aws] the line”
in defining which practices run afoul of her religious beliefs).
See also 42 U. S. C. §§2000bb–1(a),
2000bb–2(4), 2000cc–5(7)(A).[21] But those beliefs, however deeply held, do not
suffice to sustain a RFRA claim. RFRA, properly understood,
distinguishes between “factual allegations that
[plaintiffs’] beliefs are sincere and of a religious
nature,” which a court must accept as true, and the
“legal conclusion . . . that [plaintiffs’]
religious exercise is substantially burdened,” an inquiry the
court must undertake. Kaemmerling v. Lappin, 553 F. 3d 669,
679 (CADC 2008).

															     That distinction is a
facet of the pre-Smith jurisprudence RFRA incorporates. Bowen v.
Roy, 476 U. S. 693 (1986) , is instructive. There, the Court
rejected a free exercise challenge to the Government’s use of
a Native American child’s Social Security number for purposes
of administering benefit programs. Without questioning the
sincerity of the father’s religious belief that “use of
[his daughter’s Social Security] number may harm [her]
spirit,” the Court concluded that the Government’s
internaluses of that number “place[d] [no] restriction on
what [the father] may believe or what he may do.” Id., at
699. Recognizing that the father’s “religious views may
not accept” the position that the challenged uses concerned
only the Government’s internal affairs, the Court explained
that “for the adjudication of a constitutional claim, the
Constitution, rather than an individual’s religion, must
supply the frame of reference.” Id., at 700–701,
n. 6. See also Hernandez v. Commissioner, 490 U. S. 680,
699 (1989) (distinguishing between, on the one hand,
“question[s] [of] the centrality of particular beliefs or
practices to a faith, or the validity of particular
litigants’ interpretations of those creeds,” and, on
the other, “whether the alleged burden imposed [by the
challenged government action] is a substantial one”).
Inattentive to this guidance, today’s decision elides
entirely the distinction between the sincerity of a
challenger’s religious belief and the substantiality of the
burden placed on the challenger.

															     Undertaking the inquiry
that the Court forgoes, I would conclude that the connection
between the families’ religious objections and the
contraceptive coverage requirement is too attenuated to rank as
substantial. The requirement carries no command that Hobby Lobby or
Conestoga purchase or provide the contraceptives they find
objectionable. Instead, it calls on the companies covered by the
requirement to direct money into undifferentiated funds that
finance a wide variety of benefits under comprehensive health
plans. Those plans, in order to comply with the ACA, see supra, at
3–6, must offer contraceptive coverage without cost sharing,
just as they must cover an array of other preventive services.

															     Importantly, the
decisions whether to claim benefits under the plans are made not by
Hobby Lobby or Cones-toga, but by the covered employees and
dependents, in consultation with their health care providers.
Should an employee of Hobby Lobby or Conestoga share the religious
beliefs of the Greens and Hahns, she is of course under no
compulsion to use the contraceptives in question. But “[n]o
individual decision by an employee and her physician—be it to
use contraception, treat an infection, or have a hip
replaced—is in any meaningful sense [her employer’s]
decision or action.” Grote v. Sebelius, 708 F. 3d 850,
865 (CA7 2013) (Rovner, J., dissenting). It is doubtful that
Congress, when it specified that burdens must be
“substantia[l],” had in mind a linkage thus interrupted
by independent decisionmakers (the woman and her health counselor)
standing between the challenged government action and the religious
exercise claimed to be infringed. Any decision to use
contraceptives made by a woman covered under Hobby Lobby’s or
Conestoga’s plan will not be propelled by the Government, it
will be the wo-man’s autonomous choice, informed by the
physician she consults.

															3

															     Even if one were to
conclude that Hobby Lobby and Conestoga meet the substantial burden
requirement, the Government has shown that the contraceptive
coverage for which the ACA provides furthers compelling interests
in public health and women’s well being. Those interests are
concrete, specific, and demonstrated by a wealth of empirical
evidence. To recapitulate, the mandated contraception coverage
enables women to avoid the health problems unintended pregnancies
may visit on them and their children. See IOM Report 102–107.
The coverage helps safeguard the health of women for whom pregnancy
may be hazardous, even life threatening. See Brief for American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists et al. as Amici
Curiae 14–15. And the mandate secures benefits wholly
unrelated to pregnancy, preventing certain cancers, menstrual
disorders, and pelvic pain. Brief for Ovarian Cancer National
Alliance et al. as Amici Curiae 4, 6–7, 15–16; 78
Fed. Reg. 39872 (2013); IOM Report 107.

															     That Hobby Lobby and
Conestoga resist coverage for only 4 of the 20 FDA-approved
contraceptives does not lessen these compelling interests. Notably,
the corporations exclude intrauterine devices (IUDs), devices
significantly more effective, and significantly more expensive than
other contraceptive methods. See id., at 105.[22] Moreover, the Court’s reasoning
appears to permit commercial enterprises like Hobby Lobby and
Conestoga to exclude from their group health plans all forms of
contraceptives. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 38–39 (counsel for Hobby
Lobby acknowledged that his “argument . . . would
apply just as well if the employer said ‘no
contraceptives’ ” (internal quotation marks
added)).

															     Perhaps the gravity of
the interests at stake has led the Court to assume, for purposes of
its RFRA analysis, that the compelling interest criterion is met in
these cases. See ante, at 40.[23] It bears note in this regard that the cost of an IUD
is nearly equivalent to a month’s full-time pay for workers
earning the minimum wage, Brief for Guttmacher Institute
et al. as Amici Curiae 16; that almost one-third of women
would change their contraceptive method if costs were not a factor,
Frost & Darroch, Factors Associated With Contraceptive Choice
and Inconsistent Method Use, United States, 2004, 40 Perspectives
on Sexual & Reproductive Health 94, 98 (2008); and that only
one-fourth of women who request an IUD actually have one inserted
after finding out how expensive it would be, Gariepy, Simon, Patel,
Creinin, & Schwarz, The Impact of Out-of-Pocket Expense on IUD
Utilization Among Women With Private Insurance, 84 Contraception
e39, e40 (2011). See also Eisenberg, supra, at S60 (recent study
found that women who face out-of-pocket IUD costs in excess of $50
were “11-times less likely to obtain an IUD than women who
had to pay less than $50”); Postlethwaite, Trussell,
Zoolakis, Shabear, & Petitti, A Comparison of Contraceptive
Procurement Pre- and Post-Benefit Change, 76 Contraception 360,
361–362 (2007) (when one health system eliminated patient
cost sharing for IUDs, use of this form of contraception more than
doubled).

															     Stepping back from its
assumption that compelling interests support the contraceptive
coverage requirement, the Court notes that small employers and
grandfathered plans are not subject to the requirement. If there is
a compelling interest in contraceptive coverage, the Court
suggests, Congress would not have created these exclusions. See
ante, at 39–40.

															     Federal statutes often
include exemptions for small employers, and such provisions have
never been held to undermine the interests served by these
statutes. See, e.g., Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, 29 U. S.
C. §2611(4)(A)(i) (applicable to employers with 50 or more
employees); Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, 29 U. S.
C. §630(b) (originally exempting employers with fewer than 50
employees, 81Stat. 605, the statute now governs employers with 20
or more employees); Americans With Disabilities Act, 42
U. S. C. §12111(5)(A) (applicable to employers with
15 or more employees); Title VII, 42 U. S. C.
§2000e(b) (originally exempting employers with fewer than 25
employees, see Arbaugh v. Y & H Corp., 546 U. S.
500 , n. 2 (2006), the statute now governs employers with 15
or more employees).

															     The ACA’s
grandfathering provision, 42 U. S. C. §18011, allows
a phasing-in period for compliance with a number of the Act’s
requirements (not just the contraceptive coverage or other
preventive services provisions). Once specified changes are made,
grandfathered status ceases. See 45 CFR §147.140(g). Hobby
Lobby’s own situation is illustrative. By the time this
litigation commenced, Hobby Lobby did not have grandfathered
status. Asked why by the District Court, Hobby Lobby’s
counsel explained that the “grandfathering requirements mean
that you can’t make a whole menu of changes to your plan that
involve things like the amount of co-pays, the amount of
co-insurance, deductibles, that sort of thing.” App. in No.
13–354, pp. 39–40. Counsel acknowledged that,
“just because of economic realities, our plan has to shift
over time. I mean, insurance plans, as everyone knows, shif[t] over
time.” Id., at 40.[24]
The percentage of employees in grandfathered plans is steadily
declining, having dropped from 56% in 2011 to 48% in 2012 to 36% in
2013. Kaiser Family Foundation & Health Research & Educ.
Trust, Employer Benefits 2013 Annual Survey 7, 196. In short, far
from ranking as a categorical exemption, the grandfathering
provision is “temporary, intended to be a means for gradually
transitioning employers into mandatory coverage.” Gilardi,
733 F. 3d, at 1241 (Edwards, J., concurring in part and
dissenting in part).

															     The Court ultimately
acknowledges a critical point: RFRA’s application “must
take adequate account of the burdens a requested accommodation may
impose on nonbeneficiaries.” Ante, at 42, n. 37 (quoting
Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U. S. 709, 720 (2005) ; emphasis
added). No tradition, and no prior decision under RFRA, allows a
religion-based exemption when the accommodation would be harmful to
others—here, the very persons the contraceptive coverage
requirement was designed to protect. Cf. supra, at 7–8;
Prince v. Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158, 177 (1944) (Jackson,
J., dissenting) (“[The] limitations which of necessity bound
religious freedom . . . begin to operate whenever
activities begin to affect or collide with liberties of others or
of the public.”).

															4

															     After assuming the
existence of compelling government interests, the Court holds that
the contraceptive coverage requirement fails to satisfy
RFRA’s least restrictive means test. But the Government has
shown that there is no less restrictive, equally effective means
that would both (1) satisfy the challengers’ religious
objections to providing insurance coverage for certain
contraceptives (which they believe cause abortions); and (2) carry
out the objective of the ACA’s contraceptive coverage
requirement, to ensure that women employees receive, at no cost to
them, the preventive care needed to safeguard their health and well
being. A “least restrictive means” cannot require
employees to relinquish benefits accorded them by federal law in
order to ensure that their commercial employers can adhere
unreservedly to their religious tenets. See supra, at 7–8,
27.[25]

															     Then let the government
pay (rather than the employees who do not share their
employer’s faith), the Court suggests. “The most
straightforward [alternative],” the Court asserts,
“would be for the Government to assume the cost of providing
. . . contraceptives . . . to any women who are
unable to obtain them under their health-insurance policies due to
their employers’ religious objections.” Ante, at 41.
The ACA, however, requires coverage of preventive services through
the existing employer-based system of health insurance “so
that [employees] face minimal logistical and administrative
obstacles.” 78 Fed. Reg. 39888. Impeding women’s
receipt of benefits “by requiring them to take steps to learn
about, and to sign up for, a new [government funded and
administered] health benefit” was scarcely what Congress
contemplated. Ibid. More-over, Title X of the Public Health Service
Act, 42 U. S. C. §300 et seq., “is the
nation’s only dedicated source of federal funding for safety
net family planning services.” Brieffor National Health Law
Program et al. as Amici Curiae 23. “Safety net programs
like Title X are not designed to absorb the unmet needs of
. . . insured individuals.” Id., at 24. Note, too,
that Congress declined to write into law the preferential treatment
Hobby Lobby and Conestoga describe as a less restrictive
alternative. See supra, at 6.

															     And where is the
stopping point to the “let the government pay”
alternative? Suppose an employer’s sincerely held religious
belief is offended by health coverage of vaccines, or paying the
minimum wage, see Tony and Susan Alamo Foundation v. Secretary of
Labor, 471 U. S. 290, 303 (1985) , or according women equal
pay for substantially similar work, see Dole v. Shenandoah Baptist
Church, 899 F. 2d 1389, 1392 (CA4 1990)? Does it rank as a
less restrictive alternative to require the government to provide
the money or benefit to which the employer hasa religion-based
objection?[26] Because the
Court cannot easily answer that question, it proposes something
else: Extension to commercial enterprises of the accommodation
already afforded to nonprofit religion-based organizations. See
ante, at 3–4, 9–10, 43–45. “At a
minimum,” according to the Court, such an approach would not
“impinge on [Hobby Lobby’s and Conestoga’s]
religious belief.” Ante, at 44. I have already discussed the
“special solicitude” generally accorded nonprofit
religion-based organizations that exist to serve a community of
believers, solicitude never before accorded to commercial
enterprises comprising employees of diverse faiths. See supra, at
14–17.

															     Ultimately, the Court
hedges on its proposal to align for-profit enterprises with
nonprofit religion-based organizations. “We do not decide
today whether [the] approach [the opinion advances] complies with
RFRA for purposes of all religious claims.” Ante, at 44.
Counsel for Hobby Lobby was similarly noncommittal. Asked at oral
argument whether the Court-proposed alternative was
acceptable,[27] counsel
responded: “We haven’t been offered that accommodation,
so we haven’t had to decide what kind of objection, if any,
we would make to that.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 86–87.

															     Conestoga suggests
that, if its employees had to acquire and pay for the
contraceptives (to which the corporation objects) on their own, a
tax credit would qualify as a less restrictive alternative. See
Brief for Petitioners in No. 13–356, p. 64. A tax credit, of
course, is one variety of “let the government pay.” In
addition to departing from the existing employer-based system of
health insurance, Conestoga’s alternative would require a
woman to reach into her own pocket in the first instance, and it
would do nothing for the woman too poor to be aided by a tax
credit.

															     In sum, in view of what
Congress sought to accomplish, i.e., comprehensive preventive care
for women furnished through employer-based health plans, none of
the proffered alternatives would satisfactorily serve the
compelling interests to which Congress responded.

															IV

															     Among the pathmarking
pre-Smith decisions RFRA preserved is United States v. Lee, 455
U. S. 252 (1982) . Lee, a sole proprietor engaged in farming
and carpentry, was a member of the Old Order Amish. He sincerely
believed that withholding Social Security taxes from his employees
or paying the employer’s share of such taxes would violate
the Amish faith. This Court held that, although the obligations
imposed by the Social Security system conflicted with Lee’s
religious beliefs, the burden was not unconstitutional. Id., at
260–261. See also id., at 258 (recognizing the important
governmental interest in providing a “nationwide
. . . comprehensive insurance system with a variety of
benefits available to all participants, with costs shared by
employers and employees”).[28] The Government urges that Lee should control the
challenges brought by Hobby Lobby and Conestoga. See Brief for
Respondents in No. 13–356, p. 18. In contrast,
today’s Court dismisses Lee as a tax case. See ante, at
46–47. Indeed, it was a tax case and the Court in Lee homed
in on “[t]he difficulty in attempting to accommodate
religious beliefs in the area of taxation.” 455 U. S.,
at 259.

															     But the Lee Court made
two key points one cannot confine to tax cases. “When
followers of a particular sect enter into commercial activity as a
matter of choice,” the Court observed, “the limits they
accept on their own conduct as a matter of conscience and faith are
not to be superimposed on statutory schemes which are binding on
others in that activity.” Id., at 261. The statutory scheme
of employer-based comprehensive health coverage involved in these
cases is surely binding on others engaged in the same trade or
business as the corporate challengers here, Hobby Lobby and
Conestoga. Further, the Court recognized in Lee that allowing a
religion-based exemption to a commercial employer would
“operat[e] to impose the employer’s religious faith on
the employees.” Ibid.[29] No doubt the Greens and Hahns and all who share their
beliefs may decline to acquire for themselves the contraceptives in
question. But that choice may not be imposed on employees who hold
other beliefs. Working for Hobby Lobby or Conestoga, in other
words, should not deprive employees of the preventive care
available to workers at the shop next door,[30] at least in the absence of directions from
the Legislature or Administration to do so.

															     Why should decisions of
this order be made by Congress or the regulatory authority, and not
this Court? Hobby Lobby and Conestoga surely do not stand alone as
commercial enterprises seeking exemptions from generally applicable
laws on the basis of their religious beliefs. See, e.g., Newman v.
Piggie Park Enterprises, Inc., 256 F. Supp. 941, 945 (SC 1966)
(owner of restaurant chain refused to serve black patrons based on
his religious beliefs opposing racial integration), aff’d in
relevant part and rev’d in part on other grounds, 377
F. 2d 433 (CA4 1967), aff’d and modified on other
grounds, 390 U. S. 400 (1968) ; In re Minnesota ex rel.
McClure, 370 N. W. 2d 844, 847 (Minn. 1985) (born-again
Christians who owned closely held, for-profit health clubs believed
that the Bible proscribed hiring or retaining an
“individua[l] living with but not married to a person of the
opposite sex,” “a young, single woman working without
her father’s consent or a married woman working without her
husband’s consent,” and any person “antagonistic
to the Bible,” including “fornicators and
homosexuals” (internal quotation marks omitted)), appeal
dismissed, 478 U. S. 1015 (1986) ; Elane Photography, LLC v.
Willock, 2013–NMSC–040, ___ N. M. ___, 309
P. 3d 53 (for-profit photography business owned by a husband
and wife refused to photograph a lesbian couple’s commitment
ceremony based on the religious beliefs of the company’s
owners), cert. denied, 572 U. S. ___ (2014). Would RFRA
require exemptions in cases of this ilk? And if not, how does the
Court divine which religious beliefs are worthy of accommodation,
and which are not? Isn’t the Court disarmed from making such
a judgment given its recognition that “courts must not
presume to determine . . . the plausibility of a
religious claim”? Ante, at 37.

															     Would the exemption the
Court holds RFRA demands for employers with religiously grounded
objections to the use of certain contraceptives extend to employers
with religiously grounded objections to blood transfusions
(Jehovah’s Witnesses); antidepressants (Scientologists);
medications derived from pigs, including anesthesia, intravenous
fluids, and pills coated with gelatin (certain Muslims, Jews, and
Hindus); and vaccinations (Christian Scientists, among
others)?[31] According to
counsel for Hobby Lobby, “each one of these cases
. . . would have to be evaluated on its own
. . . apply[ing] the compelling interest-least
restrictive alternative test.” Tr. of Oral Arg. 6. Not much
help there for the lower courts bound by today’s
decision.

															     The Court, however,
sees nothing to worry about. Today’s cases, the Court
concludes, are “concerned solely with the contraceptive
mandate. Our decision should not be understood to hold that an
insurance-coverage mandate must necessarily fall if it conflicts
with an employer’s religious beliefs. Other coverage
requirements, such as immunizations, may be supported by different
interests (for example, the need to combat the spread of infectious
diseases) and may involve different arguments about the least
restrictive means of providing them.” Ante, at 46. But the
Court has assumed, for RFRA purposes, that the interest in
women’s health and well being is compelling and has come up
with no means adequate to serve that interest, the one motivating
Congress to adopt the Women’s Health Amendment.

															     There is an overriding
interest, I believe, in keeping the courts “out of the
business of evaluating the relative merits of differing religious
claims,” Lee, 455 U. S., at 263, n. 2 (Stevens, J.,
concurring in judgment), or the sincerity with which an asserted
religious belief is held. Indeed, approving some religious claims
while deeming others unworthy of accommodation could be
“perceived as favoring one religion over another,” the
very “risk the Establishment Clause was designed to
preclude.” Ibid. The Court, I fear, has ventured into a
minefield, cf. Spencer v. World Vision, Inc., 633 F. 3d 723,
730 (CA9 2010) (O’Scannlain, J., concurring), by its
immoderate reading of RFRA. I would confine religious exemptions
under that Act to organizations formed “for a religious
purpose,” “engage[d] primarily in carrying out that
religious purpose,” and not “engaged . . .
substantially in the exchange of goods or services for money beyond
nominal amounts.” See id., at 748 (Kleinfeld, J.,
concurring).

															*  *  *

															     For the reasons
stated, I would reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals for
the Tenth Circuit and affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit.

Notes
1
 The Court insists it has
held none of these things, for another less restrictive alternative
is at hand: extending an existing accommodation, currently limited
to religious nonprofit organizations, to encompass commercial
enterprises. See at 3–4. With that accommodation extended,
the Court asserts, “women would still be entitled to all
[Food and Drug Administration]-approved contraceptives without cost
sharing.” at 4. In the end, however, the Court is not so
sure. In stark contrast to the Court’s initial emphasis on
this accommodation, it ultimately declines to decide whether the
highlighted accommodation is even lawful. See at 44 (“We do
not decide today whether an approach of this type complies with
RFRA . . . .”).
2
 See
–13(a)(1)–(3) (group health plans must provide
coverage, without cost sharing, for (1) certain
“evidence-based items or services” recommended by the
U. S. Preventive Services Task Force; (2) immunizations
recommended by an advisory committee of the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention; and (3) “with respect to infants,
children, and adolescents, evidence-informed preventive care and
screenings provided for in the comprehensive guidelines supported
by the Health Resources and Services
Administration”).
3
 The IOM is an arm of the
National Academy of Sciences, an organization Congress established
“for the explicit purpose of furnishing advice to the
Government.” v. , , n. 11 (1989) (internal quotation
marks omitted).
4
 HRSA, HHS, Women’s
Preventive Services Guidelines, available at
http://www.hrsa.gov/womensguidelines/ (all Internet materials as
visited June 27, 2014, and available in Clerk of Court’s case
file), reprinted in App. to Brief for Petitioners in No.
13–354, pp. 43–44a. See also 77 Fed. Reg.
8725–8726 (2012).
5
 45 CFR
§147.130(a)(1)(iv) (2013) (HHS); 29 CFR
§2590.715–2713(a)(1)(iv) (2013) (Labor); 26 CFR
§54.9815–2713(a)(1)(iv) (2013) (Treasury).
6
 Separating moral
convictions from religious beliefs would be of questionable
legitimacy. See v. , –358 (1970) (Harlan, J., concurring in
result).
7
 As the Court explains,
see at 11–16, these cases arise from two separate lawsuits,
one filed by Hobby Lobby, its affiliated business (Mardel), and the
family that operates these businesses (the Greens); the other filed
by Conestoga and the family that owns and controls that business
(the Hahns). Unless otherwise specified, this opinion refers to the
respective groups of plaintiffs as Hobby Lobby and
Conestoga.
8
 See v. , (“This
case, of course, is not one in which any harm to the physical or
mental health of the child or to the public safety, peace, order,
or welfare has been demonstrated or may be properly
inferred.”); v. , (invalidating state statute requiring
employers to accommodate an employee’s Sabbath observance
where that statute failed to take into account the burden such an
accommodation would impose on the employer or other employees).
Notably, in construing the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized
Persons Act of 2000 (RLUIPA), the Court has cautioned that
“adequate account” must be taken of “the burdens
a requested accommodation may impose on nonbeneficiaries.” v.
, ; see at 722 (“an accommodation must be measured so that it
does not override other significant interests”). A balanced
approach is all the more in order when the Free Exercise Clause
itself is at stake, not a statute designed to promote accommodation
to religious beliefs and practices.
9
 Under and , the Court
“requir[ed] the government to justify any substantial burden
on religiously motivated conduct by a compelling state interest and
by means narrowly tailored to achieve that interest.” v. ,
(O’Connor, J., concurring injudgment).
10  RLUIPA, the Court notes, includes a
provision directing that “[t]his chapter [, RLUIPA] shall be
construed in favor of a broad protection of religious exercise, to
the maximum extent permitted by the terms of [the Act] and the
Constitution.” –3(g); see at 6–7, 26. RFRA
incorporates RLUIPA’s definition of “exercise of
religion,” as RLUIPA does, but contains no omnibus rule of
construction governing the statute in its entirety.
11  The
Court points out that I joined the majority opinion in and did not
then question the statement that “least restrictive means
. . . was not used [pre-].” at 17, n. 18.
Concerning that observation, I remind my colleagues of Justice
Jackson’s sage comment: “I see no reason why I should
be consciously wrong today because I was unconsciously wrong
yesterday.” v. , –640 (1948) (dissenting
opinion).
12  As
earlier explained, see at 10–11, RLUIPA’s amendment of
the definition of “exercise of religion” does not bear
the weight the Court places on it. Moreover, it is passing strange
to attribute to RLUIPA any purpose to cover entities other than
“religious assembl[ies] or institution[s].” . But cf.
at 26. That law applies to land-use regulation. §2000cc(a)(1).
To permit commercial enterprises to challenge zoning and other
land-use regulations under RLUIPA would “dramatically expand
the statute’s reach” and deeply intrude on local
prerogatives, contrary to Congress’ intent. Brief for
National League of Cities et al. as 26.
13  The
Court regards v., , as “suggest[ing] . . . that
for-profit corporations possess [free-exercise] rights.” at
26–27. See also at 21, n. 21. The suggestion is barely
there. True, one of the five challengers to the Sunday closing law
assailed in was a corporation owned by four Orthodox Jews. The
other challengers were human individuals, not artificial,
law-created entities, so there was no need to determine whether the
corporation could institute the litigation. Accordingly, the
plurality stated it could pretermit the question “whether
appellees ha[d] standing” because v. , , which upheld a
similar closing law, was fatal to their claim on the merits. 366
U. S., at 631.
14  See,
v. , 565 U. S. ___ (2012); v. , ; v. , ; v. , .
15  Typically, Congress has accorded to
organizations religious in character religion-based exemptions from
statutes of general application. –1(a) (Title VII exemption
from prohibition against employment discrimination based on
religion for “a religious corporation, association,
educational institution, or society with respect to the employment
of individuals of a particular religion to perform work connected
with the carrying on . . . of its activities”);
(parallel exemption in Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990). It
can scarcely be maintained that RFRA enlarges these exemptions to
allow Hobby Lobby and Conestoga to hire only persons who share the
religious beliefs of the Greens or Hahns. Nor does the Court
suggest otherwise. Cf. at 28.
16  That
is not to say that a category of plaintiffs, such as resident
aliens, may bring RFRA claims only if this Court expressly
“addressed their [free-exercise] rights before .” at
27. Continuing with the Court’s example, resident aliens,
unlike corporations, are flesh-and-blood individuals who plainly
count as persons sheltered by the , see v. , (citing v. , ), and ,
RFRA.
17  I
part ways with on the context relevant here. He sees it as the
employers’ “exercise [of] their religious beliefs
within the context of their own closely held, for-profit
corporations.” at 2 (concurring opinion). See also at
45–46 (opinion of the Court) (similarly concentrating on
religious faith of employers without reference to the different
beliefs and liberty interests of employees). I see as the relevant
context the employers’ asserted right to exercise religion
within a nationwide program designed to protect against health
hazards employees who do not subscribe to their employers’
religious beliefs.
18  According to the Court, the
Government “concedes” that “nonprofit
corporation[s]” are protected by RFRA. at 19. See also at 20,
24, 30. That is not an accurate description of the
Government’s position, which encompasses only
“churches,” “ institutions,” and “
non-profits.” Brief for Respondents in No. 13–356,
p. 28 (emphasis added). See also Reply Brief in No.
13–354, p. 8 (“RFRA incorporates the longstanding
and common-sense distinction between religious organizations, which
sometimes have been accorded accommodations under generally
applicable laws in recognition of their accepted religious
character, and for-profit corporations organized to do business in
the commercial world.”).
19  The
Court does not even begin to explain how one might go about
ascertaining the religious scruples of a corporation where shares
are sold to the public. No need to speculate on that, the Court
says, for “it seems unlikely” that large corporations
“will often assert RFRA claims.” at 29. Perhaps so, but
as Hobby Lobby’s case demonstrates, such claims are indeed
pursued by large corporations, employing thousands of persons of
different faiths, whose ownership is not diffuse. “Closely
held” is not synonymous with “small.” Hobby Lobby
is hardly the only enterprise of sizable scale that is family owned
or closely held. For example, the family-owned candy giant Mars,
Inc., takes in $33 billion in revenues and has some 72,000
employees, and closely held Cargill, Inc., takes in more than $136
billion in reve-nues and employs some 140,000 persons. See Forbes,
America’s Largest Private Companies 2013, available at
http://www.forbes.com/largest-private-companies/.
20  The
Court dismisses the argument, advanced by some , that the
$2,000-per-employee tax charged to certain employers that fail to
provide health insurance is less than the average cost of offering
health insurance, noting that the Government has not provided the
statistics that could support such an argument. See at 32–34.
The Court overlooks, however, that it is not the Government’s
obligation to prove that an asserted burden is substantial.
Instead, it is incumbent upon plaintiffs to demonstrate, in support
of a RFRA claim, the substantial-ity of the alleged
burden.
21  The
Court levels a criticism that is as wrongheaded as can be. In no
way does the dissent “tell the plaintiffs that their beliefs
are flawed.” at 37. Right or wrong in this domain is a
judgment no Member of this Court, or any civil court, is authorized
or equipped to make. What the Court must decide is not “the
plausibility of a religious claim,” at 37 (internal quotation
marks omitted), but whether accommodating that claim risks
depriving others of rights accorded them by the laws of the United
States. See at 7–8; , at 27.
22  IUDs,
which are among the most reliable forms of contraception, generally
cost women more than $1,000 when the expenses of the office visit
and insertion procedure are taken into account. See Eisenberg,
McNicholas, & Peipert, Cost as a Barrier to Long-Acting
Reversible Contraceptive (LARC) Use in Adolescents, 52 J.
Adolescent Health S59, S60 (2013). See also Winner et al.,
Effectiveness of Long-Acting Reversible Contraception, 366 New Eng.
J. Medicine 1998, 1999 (2012).
23  Although the Court’s opinion
makes this assumption grudgingly, see at 39–40, one Member of
the majority recognizes, without reservation, that “the
[contraceptive coverage] mandate serves the Government’s
compelling interest in providing insurance coverage that is
necessary to protect the health of female employees.” at 2
(opinion of , J.).
24  Hobby
Lobby’s National Religious Broadcasters similarly states
that, “[g]iven the nature of employers’ needs to meet
changing economic and staffing circumstances, and to adjust
insurance coverage accordingly, the actual benefit of the
‘grandfather’ exclusion is and transitory at
best.” Brief for National Religious Broadcasters as in No.
13–354, p. 28.
25  As
the Court made clear in , the government’s license to grant
religion-based exemptions from generally applicable laws is
constrained by the Establishment Clause. 544 U. S., at
720–722. “[W]e are a cosmopolitan nation made up of
people of almost every conceivable religious preference,” ,
366 U. S., at 606, a “rich mosaic of religious
faiths,” v. , 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (, J.,
dissenting) (slip op., at 15). Consequently, one person’s
right to free exercise must be kept in harmony with the rights of
her fellow citizens, and “some religious practices [must]
yield to the common good.” v. , .
26  Cf.
v. , (in context of Speech Clause challenge to a content-based
speech restriction, courts must determine “whether the
challenged regulation is the least restrictive means among ,
effective alternatives” (emphasis added)).
27  On
brief, Hobby Lobby and Conestoga barely addressed the extension
solution, which would bracket commercial enterprises with nonprofit
religion-based organizations for religious accommodations purposes.
The hesitation is understandable, for challenges to the adequacy of
the accommodation accorded religious nonprofit organizations are
currently . See, v. , ___ F. Supp. 2d ___, 2013 WL
6839900 (Colo., Dec. 27, 2013), injunction pending appeal granted,
571 U. S. ___ (2014). At another point in today’s
decision, the Court refuses to consider an argument neither
“raised below [nor] advanced in this Court by any
party,” giving Hobby Lobby and Conestoga “[no]
opportunity to respond to [that] novel claim.” at 33. Yet the
Court is content to decide this case (and this case only) on the
ground that HHS could make an accommodation never suggested in the
parties’ presentations. RFRA cannot sensibly be read to
“requir[e] the government to . . . refute each and
every conceivable alternative regulation,” v. , 638
F. 3d 1274, 1289 (CA10 2011), especially where the alternative
on which the Court seizes was not pressed by any
challenger.
28  As a
sole proprietor, Lee was subject to personal liability for
violating the law of general application he opposed. His claim to a
religion-based exemption would have been even thinner had he
conducted his business as a corporation, thus avoiding personal
liability.
29  Congress amended the Social Security
Act in response to . The amended statute permits Amish sole
proprietors and partnerships (but not Amish-owned corporations) to
obtain an exemption from the obligation to pay Social Security
taxes only for employees who are co-religionists and who likewise
seek an exemption and agree to give up their Social Security
benefits. See , (b)(1). Thus, employers with sincere religious
beliefs have no right to a religion-based exemption that would
deprive employees of Social Security benefits without the
employee’s consent—an exemption analogous to the one
Hobby Lobby and Conestoga seek here.
30  Cf.
v. , (disallowing religion-based exemption that “would
undoubtedly give [the commercial enterprise seeking the exemption]
and similar organizations an advantage over their
competitors”).
31  Religious objections to immunization
programs are not hypothetical. See v. , ___ F. Supp. 2d
___, 2014 WL 2547584 (EDNY, June 5, 2014) (dismissing free exercise
challenges to New York’s vaccination practices); Liberty
Counsel, Compulsory Vaccinations Threaten Religious Freedom (2007),
available at
http://www.lc.org/media/9980/attachments/memo_vaccination.pdf.


