::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-063
::decision_cite:: 573 U.S. 302 (2014)
::decision_name::  Utility Air Regulatory Group v. EPA
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															Nos. 12–1146, 12–1248,
12–1254, 12–1268, 12–1269, and 12–1272

															_________________

															UTILITY AIR REGULATORY
GROUP,PETITIONER

															12–1146      v.

															ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,
et al.;

															

															AMERICAN CHEMISTRY COUNCIL,
et al.,PETITIONERS

															12–1248      v.

															ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,
et al.;

															

															ENERGY-INTENSIVE MANUFACTURERS
WORKINGGROUP ON GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATION,et al.,
PETITIONERS

															12–1254      v.

															ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,
et al.;

															

															SOUTHEASTERN LEGAL FOUNDATION,
INC.,et al., PETITIONERS

															12–1268      v.

															ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,
et al.;

															

															TEXAS, et al., PETITIONERS

															12–1269      v.

															ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,
et al.; and

															

															CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITEDSTATES,
et al., PETITIONERS

															12–1272      v.

															ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY,
et al.;

															on writs of certiorari to the united states
court ofappeals for the district of columbia circuit

															[June 23, 2014]

															

															     Justice Alito, with
whom Justice Thomas joins, concurring in part and dissenting in
part.

															     In Massachusetts v.
EPA, 549 U. S. 497 (2007) , this Court considered whether
greenhouse gases fall within the Clean Air Act’s general
definition of an air “pollutant.” Id., at
528–529. The Environmental Protection Agency cautioned us
that “key provisions of the [Act] cannot cogently be applied
to [greenhouse gas] emissions,” Brief for Federal Respondent
in Massachusetts v. EPA, O. T. 2006, No. 05–1120, p. 22, but
the Court brushed the warning aside and had “little
trouble” concluding that the Act’s “sweeping
definition” of a pollutant encompasses greenhouse gases. 549
U. S., at 528–529. I believed Massachusetts v. EPA was
wrongly decided at the time, and these cases further expose the
flaws with that decision.

															I

															     As the present cases
now show, trying to fit greenhouse gases into “key
provisions” of the Clean Air Act involves more than a
“little trouble.” These cases concern the provisions of
the Act relating to the “Prevention of Significant
Deterioration” (PSD), 42 U. S. C.
§§7470–7492, as well as Title V of the Act,
§7661. And in order to make those provisions apply to
greenhouse gases in a way that does not produce absurd results, the
EPA effectively amended the Act. The Act contains specific
emissions thresholds that trigger PSD and Title V coverage, but the
EPA crossed out the figures enacted by Congress and substituted
figures of its own.

															     I agree with the Court
that the EPA is neither required nor permitted to take this
extraordinary step, and I therefore join Parts I and II–A of
the Court’s opinion.

															II

															     I do not agree,
however, with the Court’s conclusion that what it terms
“anyway sources,” i.e., sources that are subject to PSD
and Title V permitting as the result of the emission of
conventional pollutants, must install “best available control
technology” (BACT) for greenhouse gases. As is the case with
the PSD and Title V thresholds,trying to fit greenhouse gases into
the BACT analysis badly distorts the scheme that Congress
adopted.

															     The Court gives two
main reasons for concluding that BACT applies to
“anyway” sources, one based on textand one based on
practical considerations. Neither isconvincing.

															A

															     With respect to the
text, it is curious that the Court, having departed from a literal
interpretation of the term “pollutant” in Part
II–A, turns on its heels and adopts a literal interpretation
in Part II–B. The coverage thresholds at issue in Part
II–A apply to any “pollutant.” The Act’s
general definition of this term is broad, and in Massachusetts v.
EPA, supra, the Court held that this definition covers greenhouse
gases. The Court does not disturb that holding, but it nevertheless
concludes that, as used in the provision triggering PSD coverage,
the term “pollutant” actually means “pollutant,
other than a greenhouse gas.”

															     In Part II–B, the
relevant statutory provision saysthat BACT must be installed for
any “pollutant subjectto regulation under [the Act].”
§7475(a)(4). If the term “pollutant” means
“pollutant, other than a greenhouse gas,” as the Court
effectively concludes in Part II–A, the term “pollutant
subject to regulation under [the Act]” in §7475(a)(4)
should mean “pollutant, other than a greenhouse gas, subject
to regulation under [the Act], and that is subject to regulation
under [the Act].” The Court’s literalism is selective,
and it results in a strange and disjointed regulatory scheme.

															     Under the Court’s
interpretation, a source can emit an unlimited quantity of
greenhouse gases without triggering the need for a PSD permit. Why
might Congress have wanted to allow this? The most likely
explanation is that the PSD permitting process is simply not suited
for use in regulating this particular pollutant. And if that is so,
it makes little sense to require the installation of BACT for
greenhouse gases in those instances in which a source happens to be
required to obtain a permit due to the emission of a qualifying
quantity of some other pollutant that is regulated under the
Act.

															B

															     The Court’s
second reason for holding that BACT applies to “anyway”
sources is its belief that this can be done without disastrous
consequences. Only time will tell whether this hope is well
founded, but it seems clear that BACT analysis is fundamentally
incompatible with the regulation of greenhouse-gas emissions for at
least two important reasons.

															1

															     First, BACT looks to
the effects of covered pollutants in the area in which a source is
located. The PSD program is implemented through “emission
limitations and such other measures” as are “necessary
. . . to prevent significant deterioration of air quality
in each region.” §7471 (emphasis added). The Clean Air
Act provides that BACT must be identified “on a case-by-case
basis,” §7479(3), and this necessarily means that local
conditions must be taken into account. For this reason, the Act
instructs the EPA to issue regulations requiring an analysis of
“the ambient air quality . . . at the site of the
proposed major emitting facil-ity and in the area potentially
affected by the emissions from such facility for each pollutant
regulated under [the Act].” §7475(e)(3)(B) (emphasis
added). The Act also requires a public hearing on “the air
quality at the proposed site and in areas which may be affected by
emissions from such facility for each pollutant subject to
regulation under [the Act] which will be emitted from such
facility.” §§7475(a)(2), (e)(1) (emphasis added).
Accordingly, if BACT is required for greenhouse gases, the Act
demands that the impact of these gases in the area surrounding a
site must be monitored, explored at a public hearing, and
considered as part of the permitting process. The effects of
greenhouse gases, however, are global, not local. See PSD and Title
V Permitting Guidance for Greenhouse Gases 41–42 (Mar. 2011)
(hereinafter Guidance). As a result, the EPA has declared that PSD
permit applicants and permitting officials may disregard these
provisions of the Act. 75 Fed. Reg. 31520 (2010).

															2

															     Second, as part of
the case-by-case analysis required by BACT, a permitting authority
must balance the environmental benefit expected to result from the
installation of an available control measure against adverse
consequences that may result, including any negative impact on the
environment, energy conservation, and the economy. And the EPA
itself has admitted that this cannot be done on a case-by-case
basis with respect to greenhouse gases.

															     The Clean Air Act makes
it clear that BACT must be determined on a “case-by-case
basis, taking into account energy, environmental, and economic
impacts and other costs.” §7479(3). To implement this
directive, the EPA adopted a five-step framework for making a BACT
determination. See New Source Review Workshop Manual: Prevention of
Significant Deterioration and Nonattainment Area Permitting (Oct.
1990).[1] Under the fourth step
of this analysis, potentially applicable and feasible control
technologies that are candidates for selection as BACT for a
particular source are eliminated from consideration based on their
“collateral impacts,” such as any adverse environmental
effects or adverse effects on energy consumption or the
economy.

															     More recently, the EPA
provided guidance to permitting authorities regarding the treatment
of greenhouse-gas emissions under this framework, and the
EPA’s guidance demonstrates the insuperable problem that
results when an attempt is made to apply this framework to
greenhouse gas emissions. As noted above, at step 4 of the
framework, a permitting authority must balance the positive effect
likely to result from requiring a particular source to install a
particular technology against a variety of negative effects that
are likely to occur if that step is taken. Butin the case of
greenhouse gases, how can a permit-ting authority make this
individualized, source-specific determination?

															     The EPA instructs
permitting authorities to take into consideration all the adverse
effects that the EPA has found to result from the overall increase
in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. These include an increased
risk of dangerous heat waves, hurricanes, floods, wildfires, and
drought, as well as risks to agriculture, forestry, and water
resources. Guidance 40–41. But the EPA admits that it is
simply not possible for a permitting authority to calculate in any
meaningful way the degree to which any potential reduction in
greenhouse gas emissions from any individual source might reduce
these risks. And without making such a calculation in even a very
rough way, a permitting authority cannot do what the Clean Air Act
and the EPA’s framework demand—compare the benefits of
some specified reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases from a
particular source with any adverse environmental or economic
effects that might result from mandating such a reduction.

															     Suppose, for example,
that a permitting authority must decide whether to mandate a change
that both decreases a source’s emission of greenhouse gases
and increases its emission of a conventional pollutant that has a
negative effect on public health. How should a permitting authority
decide whether to require this change? Here is the EPA’s
advice:

															“[W]hen considering the trade-offs
between the environmental impacts of a particular level of GHG
[greenhouse gas] reduction and a collateral increase in another
regulated NSR pollutant,[[2]]
rather than attempting to determine or characterize specific
environmental impacts from GHGs emitted at particular locations,
EPA recommends that permitting authorities focus on the amount of
GHG emission reductions that may be gained or lost by employing a
particular control strategy and how that compares to the
environmental or other impacts resulting from the collateral
emissions increase of other regulated NSR pollutants.”
Guidance 42.

															     As best I can make out,
what this means is that permitting authorities should not even try
to assess the net impact on public health. Instead of comparing the
positive and negative public health effects of a particular option,
permitting authorities are instructed to compare the adverse public
health effects of increasing the emissions of the conventional
pollutants with the amount of the reduction of the source’s
emissions of greenhouse gases. But without knowing the positive
effects of the latter, this is a meaningless comparison.

															     The EPA tries to
ameliorate this problem by noting that permitting authorities are
entitled to “a great deal of discretion,” Guidance 41,
but without a comprehensible standard, what this will mean is
arbitrary and inconsistent decisionmaking. That is not what the
Clean Air Act contemplates.[3]

															*  *  *

															     BACT analysis, like
the rest of the Clean Air Act, was developed for use in regulating
the emission of conventional pollutants and is simply not suited
for use with respect to greenhouse gases. I therefore respectfully
dissent from Part II–B–2 of the opinion of the
Court.

Notes
1
 The EPA describes these
steps as follows:
2
 “New source review
pollutants” are those pollutants for which a National Ambient
Air Quality standard has been set and a few others, such as sulphur
dioxide. See 40 CFR 51.165(a)(1)(xxxvii) (2013).
3
 While I do not think that
BACT applies at all to “anyway sources,” if it is to
apply, the limitations suggested in Part II–B–1 might
lessen the inconsistencies highlighted in Part II of this opinion,
and on that understanding I join Part
II–B–1.


