::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-056
::decision_cite:: 573 U.S. 41 (2014)
::decision_name::  Scialabba v. de Osorio
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Roberts
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–930

															_________________

															LORI SCIALABBA, ACTING DIRECTOR, UNITEDSTATES
CITIZENSHIP AND IMMIGRATION SERVICES, et al., PETITIONERS v.
ROSA-LINA CUELLAR DE OSORIO et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the ninth circuit

															[June 9, 2014]

															

															     Chief Justice
Roberts, with whom Justice Scalia joins, concurring in the
judgment.

															     I agree with much of
the plurality’s opinion and with its conclusion that the
Board of Immigration Appeals reasonably interpreted 8
U. S. C. §1153(h)(3). I write separately because I
take a different view of what makes this provision
“ambiguous” under Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v.
Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837, 843
(1984) .

															     As the plurality reads
section 1153(h)(3), the statute’s two clauses address the
issue before the Court “in divergent ways” and
“do not easily cohere with each other.” Ante, at 14.
For the plurality, the first clause looks “toward the
sweeping relief the respondents propose, which would reach every
aged-out beneficiary of a family preference petition,” while
the second clause offers narrower relief that can help “only
a subset of those beneficiaries.” Ibid. Such
“ill-fitting clauses,” the plurality says, “left
the Board with a choice—essentially of how to reconcile the
statute’s different commands.” Ante, at 21.

															     To the extent the
plurality’s opinion could be read to suggest that deference
is warranted because of a direct conflict between these clauses,
that is wrong. Courts defer to an agency’s reasonable
construction of an ambiguous statute because we presume that
Congress intended to assign responsibility to resolve the ambiguity
to the agency. Chevron, supra, at 843–844. But when Congress
assigns to an agency the responsibility for deciding whether a
particular group should get relief, it does not do so by
simultaneously saying that the group should and that it should not.
Direct conflict is not ambiguity, and the resolution of such a
conflict is not statutory construction but legislative choice.
Chevron is not a license for an agency to repair a statute that
does not make sense.[1]

															     I see no conflict, or
even “internal tension,” ante, at 14, in section
1153(h)(3). See FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529
U. S. 120, 133 (2000) (we must “interpret the statute
‘as a symmetrical and coherent regulatory scheme,’ and
‘fit, if possible, all parts into a[ ] harmonious
whole’ ” (citation omitted)).

															     The statute reads:

															     “If the age
of an alien is determined under [section 1153(h)(1)] to be 21 years
of age or older for the purposes of subsections (a)(2)(A) and (d)
of this section, the alien’s petition shall automatically be
converted to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain
the original priority date issued upon receipt of the original
petition.” §1153(h)(3).

															     The first clause states
a condition—one that beneficiaries from any preference
category can meet—and thereby defines the persons potentially
affected by this provision. But the clause does not grant anything
to anyone. I disagree with the plurality that the first clause
“points toward broad-based relief,” ante, at 21,
because I do not think the first clause points toward any relief at
all.[2]

															     Imagine a provision of
the Tax Code that read: “If a student is determined to be
enrolled at an accredited university, the student’s cost of
off-campus housing shall be deductible on her tax return.” It
would be immediately apparent from that provision that an enrolled
student who lives on campus is not entitled to the deduction, even
though the student falls within the conditional first clause. And
yet no one would describe the two clauses as being in tension. If
the Internal Revenue Service then interpreted the term “cost
of off-campus housing” to exclude payments by a student who
rents a home from his parents, a court would determine whether that
interpretation was reasonable. The same is true in this
case.[3]

															     The particular benefit
provided by section 1153(h)(3) is found exclusively in the second
clause—the only operative provision. There we are told what
an aged-out beneficiary (from whatever preference category) is
entitled to: His petition “shall automatically be converted
to the appropriate category and the alien shall retain the original
priority date.” §1153(h)(3). But automatic conversion is
not possible for every beneficiary in every preference category, as
the plurality convincingly demonstrates. Ante, at 15–19.
Automatic conversion requires, at minimum, that the beneficiary
have his own sponsor, who demonstrates that he is eligible to act
as a sponsor, and who commits to providing financial support for
the beneficiary. Ante, at 18. Some aged-out children will not meet
those prerequisites, and they cannot benefit from automatic
conversion even under respondents’ interpretation of the
statute.[4]

															     Beyond those
requirements, however, Congress did not speak clearly to which
petitions can “automatically be converted.”
§1153(h)(3). Whatever other interpretations of that provision
might be possible, it was reasonable, for the reasons explained by
the plurality, for the Board to interpret section 1153(h)(3) to
provide relief only to a child who was a principal or derivative
beneficiary of an F2A petition. That interpretation is consistent
with the ordinary meaning of the statutory terms, with the
established meaning of automatic conversion in immigration law, and
with the structure of the family-based immigration system. Ante, at
15–20. It also avoids the problems that would flow from
respondents’ proposed alternative interpretations, including
the suggestion that retention of the original priority date
provides a benefit wholly separate from automatic conversion. Ante,
at 18–19, 22–32.

															     I concur in the
judgment.

Notes
1
  v. , 551U. S. 644
(2007), is not to the contrary. There the Court confrontedtwo
different statutes, enacted to address different problems, that
pre-sented “seemingly categorical—and, at first glance,
irreconcilable—legislative commands.” at 661. We
deferred to an agency’s reasonable interpretation, which
“harmonize[d] the statutes,” in large part because of
our strong presumption that one statute does not impliedly repeal
another. at 662–669. did not address the consequences of a
single statutory provision that appears to give divergent
commands.
2
 For the same reason, I do
not agree with the contention in ’s dissent that the first
clause of section 1153(h)(3) unambiguously “answers the
precise question in this case.” at 6.
3
 ’s dissent accuses
me of “ignor[ing]” the first clause of section
1153(h)(3), “treating [that] clause as a nullity,” and
denying the clause “effect.” at 20–21. But that
point is correct only if the reader adopts ’s own premise,
that the first clause has operative effect on its own. I give the
statute’s first clause precisely the (limited) effect it is
meant to have: it defines who is affected by section 1153(h)(3). s
response to the campus housing example proves my point by
acknowledging that who gets relief under a statute depends entirely
on the meaning of the statute’s operative provision, not on
the reach of the introductory clause. See at 21. The Court would
not reject a reasonable interpretation of the term “cost of
off-campus housing,” as ’s dissent would, simply
because the IRS could have interpreted the term to cover more
students who fall within the prefatory clause.
4
 s dissent is wrong that
“the relief promised in §1153(h)(3) (priority date
retention and automatic conversion) be given” to every
aged-out child in every preference category, at 21, and it
therefore follows that the statute is ambiguous.


