::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-068
::decision_cite:: 573 U.S. 464 (2014)
::decision_name::  McCullen v. Coakley
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Alito
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 12–1168

															_________________

															ELEANOR McCULLEN, et al., PETITIONERS v.
MARTHA COAKLEY, ATTORNEY GEN-ERAL of MASSACHUSETTS, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the first circuit

															[June 26, 2014]

															

															     Justice Alito,
concurring in the judgment.

															     I agree that the
Massachusetts statute at issue in this case, Mass. Gen. Laws, ch.
266, §120E½(b) (West 2012), violates the First
Amendment. As the Court recognizes, if the Massachusetts law
discriminates on the basis of viewpoint, it is unconstitutional,
see ante, at 10, and I believe the law clearly discriminates on
this ground.

															     The Massachusetts
statute generally prohibits any person from entering a buffer zone
around an abortion clinic during the clinic’s business hours,
§120E½(c), but the law contains an exemption for
“employees or agents of such facility acting within the scope
of their employment.” §120E½(b)(2). Thus, during
business hours, individuals who wish to counsel against abortion or
to criticize the particular clinic may not do so within the buffer
zone. If they engage in such conduct, they commit a crime. See
§120E½(d). By contrast, employees and agents of the
clinic may enter the zone and engage in any conduct that falls
within the scope of their employment. A clinic may direct or
authorize an employee or agent, while within the zone, to express
favorable views about abortion or the clinic, and if the employee
exercises that authority, the employee’s conduct is perfectly
lawful. In short, petitioners and other critics of a clinic are
silenced, while the clinic may authorize its employees to express
speech in support of the clinic and its work.

															     Consider this entirely
realistic situation. A woman enters a buffer zone and heads
haltingly toward the entrance. A sidewalk counselor, such as
petitioners, enters the buffer zone, approaches the woman and says,
“If you have doubts about an abortion, let me try to answer
any questions you may have. The clinic will not give you good
information.” At the same time, a clinic employee, as
instructed by the management, approaches the same woman and says,
“Come inside and we will give you honest answers to all your
questions.” The sidewalk counselor and the clinic employee
expressed opposing viewpoints, but only the first violated the
statute.

															     Or suppose that the
issue is not abortion but the safety of a particular facility.
Suppose that there was a recent report of a botched abortion at the
clinic. A nonemployee may not enter the buffer zone to warn about
the clinic’s health record, but an employee may enter and
tell prospective clients that the clinic is safe.

															     It is clear on the face
of the Massachusetts law that it discriminates based on viewpoint.
Speech in favor of the clinic and its work by employees and agents
is permitted; speech criticizing the clinic and its work is a
crime. This is blatant viewpoint discrimination.

															     The Court holds not
only that the Massachusetts law is viewpoint neutral but also that
it does not discriminate based on content. See ante, at
11–15. The Court treats the Massachusetts law like one that
bans all speechwithin the buffer zone. While such a law would be
content neutral on its face, there are circumstances in which a law
forbidding all speech at a particular location would not be content
neutral in fact. Suppose, for example, that a facially
content-neutral law is enacted for the purpose of suppressing
speech on a particular topic. Such a law would not be content
neutral. See, e.g., Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512
U. S. 622 –646 (1994).

															     In this case, I do not
think that it is possible to reach a judgment about the intent of
the Massachusetts Legislature without taking into account the fact
that the law that the legislature enacted blatantly discriminates
based on viewpoint. In light of this feature, as well as the
overbreadth that the Court identifies, see ante, at 23–27, it
cannot be said, based on the present record, that the law would be
content neutral even if the exemption for clinic employees and
agents were excised. However, if the law were truly content
neutral, I would agree with the Court that the law would still be
unconstitutional on the ground that it burdens more speech than is
necessary to serve the Commonwealth’s asserted interests.

													
