::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-064
::decision_cite:: 573 U.S. 351 (2014)
::decision_name::  Loughrin v. United States
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Scalia
::opinion_type:: Concurrence
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 13–316

															_________________

															KEVIN LOUGHRIN, PETITIONER v. UNITED
STATES

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the tenth circuit

															[June 23, 2014]

															

															     Justice Scalia, with
whom Justice Thomas joins, concurring in part and concurring in the
judgment.

															     I join Parts I and II
of the Court’s opinion, Part III–A except the last
paragraph, and the last footnote in Part III–B. I do not join
the remainder of Part III–B.

															     I agree with the Court
that neither intent to defraud a bank nor exposure of a bank to a
risk of loss is an element of the crime codified in 18
U. S. C. §1344(2). But I am dubitante on the point
that one obtains bank property “by means of” a
fraudulent statement only if that statement is “the mechanism
naturally inducing a bank (or custodian of bank property) to part
with money in its control,” ante, at 12. The Government
suggested that test, but only briefly claimed it was to be found in
the “by means of” language, Brief for United States
40–41—so briefly that Loughrin responded that
“[t]he Government does not claim any textual basis for this
[naturally inducing] rule,” Reply Brief 13. We have heard
scant argument (nothing but the Government’s bare-bones
assertion) in favor of the “by means of” textual
limitation, and no adversary presentation whatever opposing it. The
Court’s opinion raises the subject in order to reply to
Loughrin’s argument that, unless we adopt his proposed
nontextual limitations, all frauds effected by receipt of a check
will become federal crimes. It seems to me enough to say that
Loughrin’s solutions to the problem of the statute’s
sweep are, for the reasons well explained by the Court’s
opinion, not correct. What the proper solution may be should in my
view be left for another day. I discuss below my difficulties with
the “by means of” solution.

															     Recall the
Court’s hypothetical garden-variety con. “A fraudster
[makes a statement] pass[ing] off a cheap knock-off as a Louis
Vuitton handbag. The victim pays for the bag with a good check,
which the criminal cashes.” Ante, at 10. The fraudster
unquestionably has obtained bank property. But how? By presenting
the check to a bank teller, yes. But also by duping the buyer. Yet
according to the Court, the fraudster’s deceit was not a
“means” of obtaining the cash, because tricking a buyer
into swapping a check for a counterfeit carryall is not a
“mechanism naturally inducing a bank . . . to part with money
in its control.” Ante, at 12. The bank’s involvement,
it says, is mere happenstance.

															     I do not know where the
Court’s crabbed definition of “means” comes from.
Certainly not the dictionary entries that it quotes. Quite the
contrary, those suggest that the handbag fraudster’s
deceitful statement was a “means”: Undoubtedly, the
trickery was a “ ‘method, or course of action, by
the employment of which [bank property was]
attained.’ ” Ante, at 11. Though the dictionaries
do not appear to add that the connection between
“means” and end must be “something more than
oblique, indirect, and incidental,” ibid., I agree that, in
common usage, not every but-for cause of an act is a cause
“by means of” which the act has occurred. No one would
say, for example, that the handbag fraudster obtained bank property
by means of his ancestors’ emigration to the United States.
But all would say, I think, that he obtained the property by means
of the lie. His deceit is far from merely incidental to, or an
oblique or indirect way of, obtaining the money. That was the
lie’s very purpose.

															     That the fraudster
likely was indifferent to the victim’s method of
payment—making his receipt of bank money instead of straight
cash merely “fortuitous,” ante, at 13—does not
suggest, in ordinary parlance, that the fraud was not a means of
acquiring bank property. Indeed, saying that indifference is
disqualifying comes close to requiring the intent to defraud a bank
that the Court properly rejects. In any case, indifference
certainly does not cause what is a means not to be a means. Suppose
I resolve to purchase (with the two dollars in my billfold) a
coffee at the first convenience store I pass on my way to work. I
am indifferent to what store that might be. I catch sight of a
7-Eleven, pull in, and, with my cash, buy the drink. That it is a
7-Eleven coffee rather than a Sheetz coffee is “wholly
fortuitous,” ibid. Still, no one would say that I had not
obtained 7-Eleven coffee by means of my two dollars. So too with
the handbag swindler: Regardless of whether the cash is the
victim’s or, technically, the bank’s, and regardless of
whether the swindler cared which it was, would we not say that the
fraudster has obtained it by means of the trick?

															     The majority responds
that the measure of “means” is not indifference or the
absence of fortuity but rather directness. And not just
proximate-cause-like directness—the fraudulent statement
literally must “reach the bank,” ante, at 14,
n. 8. Once again, it seems to me the Court’s definition
does not accord with common usage. Suppose little Bobby falsely
tells his mother that he got an A on his weekly spelling test and
so deserves an extra cookie after dinner. Mother will not be home
for dinner, but she leaves a note for Father: “Bobby gets an
extra cookie after dinner tonight.” (Much like the handbag
buyer’s note to the bank: “Pay $2,000 to the order of
Mr. Handbag Fraudster.”) Dinner wraps up, and Bobby gets his
second cookie. Has he obtained it by means of the fib to his
mother? Plainly yes, an ordinary English speaker would say. But
plainly no under the Court’s definition, since the lie did
not make its way to the father.

															     The Court’s chief
illustration of its “by means of” gloss seems to me
contrived. If “Jane traded in her car for money to take a
bike trip cross-country, no one would say she ‘crossed the
Rockies by means of a car.’ ” Ante, at 12. Of
course. By using two vehicles of conveyance, and describing the end
in question as “crossing the Rockies,” the statement
that the car was the “means” of achieving that end
invites one to think that Jill traveled by automobile. But the
proper question—the one parallel to the question whether the
fraudster obtained bank funds by means of fraudulently selling the
counterfeit—is not whether Jill crossed the Rockies by means
of the car, but whether she funded her trip by means of selling the
car. Which she assuredly did. Just as the handbag swindler, in the
Louis Vuitton example, obtained money by means of his false
representation.

															     I certainly agree that
this statute must be interpreted, if possible, in a manner that
will not make every fraud effected by receipt of a check a federal
offense. But deciding this case does not require us to identify
that manner, and I would leave that for another case.

													
