::SCDB_caseID:: 2013-071
::decision_cite:: 573 U.S. 616 (2014)
::decision_name::  Harris v. Quinn
::decision_year:: 2014
::opinion_author:: Kagan
::opinion_type:: Dissent
::opinion:: 

															

															SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

															_________________

															No. 11–681

															_________________

															PAMELA HARRIS, et al, PETITIONERS v. PAT
QUINN, GOVERNOR of ILLINOIS, et al.

															on writ of certiorari to the united states
court of appeals for the seventh circuit

															[June 30, 2014]

															

															     Justice Kagan, with
whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Breyer, and Justice Sotomayor
join,dissenting.

															     Abood v. Detroit Bd. of
Ed., 431 U. S. 209 (1977) , answers the question presented in
this case. Abood held that a government entity may, consistently
with the First Amendment, require public employees to pay a fair
share of the cost that a union incurs negotiating on their behalf
for better terms of employment. That is exactly what Illinois did
in entering into collective bargaining agreements with the Service
Employees International Union Healthcare (SEIU) which included
fair-share provisions. Contrary to the Court’s decision,
those agreements fall squarely within Abood’s holding. Here,
Illinois employs, jointly with individuals suffering from
disabilities, the in-home care providers whom the SEIU represents.
Illinois establishes, following negotiations with the union, the
most important terms of their employment, including wages,
benefits, and basic qualifications. And Illinois’s interests
in imposing fair-share fees apply no less to those caregivers than
to other state workers. The petitioners’ challenge should
therefore fail.

															     And that result would
fully comport with our decisions applying the First Amendment to
public employment. Abood is not, as the majority at one point
describes it, “something of an anomaly,” allowing
uncommon interference with individuals’ expressive
activities. Ante, at 8. Rather, the lines it draws and the balance
it strikes reflect the way courts generally evaluate claims that a
condition of public employment violates the First Amendment. Our
decisions have long afforded government entities broad latitude to
manage their workforces, even when that affects speech they could
not regulate in other contexts. Abood is of a piece with all those
decisions: While protecting an employee’s most significant
expression, that decision also enables the government to advance
its interests in operating effectively—by bargaining, if it
so chooses, with a single employee representative and preventing
free riding on that union’s efforts.

															     For that reason, one
aspect of today’s opinion is cause for satisfaction, though
hardly applause. As this case came to us, the principal question it
presented was whether to overrule Abood: The petitioners devoted
the lion’sshare of their briefing and argument to urging us
to overturn that nearly 40-year-old precedent (and the respondents
and amici countered in the same vein). Today’s majority
cannot resist taking potshots at Abood, see ante, at 17–20,
but it ignores the petitioners’ invitation to depart from
principles of stare decisis. And the essential work in the
majority’s opinion comes from its extended (though mistaken)
distinction of Abood, see ante, at 20–28, not from its
gratuitous dicta critiquing Abood’s foundations. That is to
the good—or at least better than it might be. The Abood rule
is deeply entrenched, and is the foundation for not tens or
hundreds, but thousands of contracts between unions and governments
across the Nation. Our precedent about precedent, fairly understood
and applied, makes it impossible for this Court to reverse that
decision.

															I

															     I begin where this
case should also end—with this Court’s decision in
Abood. There, some public school teachers in Detroit challenged a
clause in their collective bargaining agreement compelling
non-union members to pay the union a service charge equivalent to
regular dues. The Court upheld the requirement so long as the union
was using the money for “collective bargaining, contract
administration, and grievance adjustment,” rather than for
political or ideological activities. 431 U. S., at
225–226. In so doing, the Court acknowledged that such a
fair-share provision “has an impact upon [public
employees’] First Amendment interests”; employees,
after all, might object to policies adopted or “activities
undertaken by the union in its role as exclusive
representative.” Id., at 222. Still, the Court thought, the
government’s own interests “constitutionally
justified” the interference. Ibid. Detroit had decided, the
Court explained, that bargaining with a single employee
representative would promote “labor stability” and
peaceful labor relations—by ensuring, for example, that
different groups of employees did not present “conflicting
demands.” Id., at 221, 229. And because such an exclusive
bargaining agent has a legal duty to represent all employees,
rather than just its own members, a compulsory surcharge fairly
distributes “the cost of [bargaining] among those who
benefit” and “counteracts the incentive that employees
might otherwise have to become ‘free
riders.’ ” Id., at 222.

															     This case thus raises a
straightforward question: Does Abood apply equally to
Illinois’s care providers as to Detroit’s teachers? No
one thinks that the fair-share provisions in the two cases differ
in any relevant respect. Nor do the petitioners allege that the
SEIU is crossing the line Abood drew by using their payments for
political or ideological activities. The only point in dispute is
whether it matters that the personal assistants here are employees
not only of the State but also of the disabled persons for whom
they care. Just as the Court of Appeals held, that fact should make
no difference to the analysis. See 656 F. 3d 692, 698 (CA7
2011).

															     To see how easily Abood
resolves this case, consider how Illinois structured the
petitioners’ employment, and also why it did so. The
petitioners work in Illinois’s Medicaid-funded Rehabilitation
Program, which provides in-home services to persons with
disabilities who otherwise would face institutionalization. Under
the program, each disabled person (the State calls them
“customers”) receives care from a personal assistant;
the total workforce exceeds 20,000. The State could have asserted
comprehensive control over all the caregivers’ activities.
But because of the personalized nature of the services provided,
Illinois instead chose (as other States have as well) to share
authority with the customers themselves. The result is that each
caregiver has joint employers—the State and the
customer—with each controlling significant aspects of the
assistant’s work.[1]

															     For its part, Illinois
sets all the workforce-wide terms of employment. Most notably, the
State determines and pays the employees’ wages and benefits,
including health insurance (while also withholding taxes). See 89
Ill.Admin. Code §§686.10(h)(10), 686.40(a)–(b)
(2007); App. 44–46. By regulation, Illinois establishes the
job’s basic qualifications: for example, the assistant must
provide references or recommendations and have adequate experience
and training for the services given. See §§686.10(c),
(f). So too, the State describes the services any personal
assistant may provide, and prescribes the terms of standard
employment contracts entered into between personal assistants and
customers. See §§686.10(h), 686.20.

															     Illinois as well
structures the individual relationship between the customer and his
assistant (in ways the majority barely acknowledges). Along with
both the customer and his physician, a state-employed counselor
develops a service plan laying out the assistant’s
specificjob responsibilities, hours, and working conditions. See
§§684.10, 684.50. That counselor also assists the
customer in conducting a state-mandated annual performance review,
based on state-established criteria, and mediates any resulting
disagreements. See §686.30.

															     Within the structure
designed by the State, the cus-tomer of course has crucial
responsibilities. He exercises day-to-day supervisory control over
the personal assistant. See §676.30(b). And he gets both to
hire a particular caregiver (from among the pool of applicants
Illinois has deemed qualified) and to impose any needed discipline,
up to and including discharge. See ibid.; §677.40(d). But even
as to those matters, the State plays a role. Before a customer may
hire an assistant, the counselor must sign off on the
employee’s ability to follow the customer’s directions
and communicate with him. See §§686.10(d)–(e)
(requiring that the employee demonstrate these capabilities
“to the satisfaction of” the counselor). And although
only a customer can actually fire an assistant, the State can
effectively do so by refusing to pay one who fails to “meet
[state] standards.” §677.40(d). The majority reads that
language narrowly, see ante, at 3, n. 1, 22, but the State
does not: It has made clear not just in its litigation papers, but
also in its collective bargaining agreements and customer guidance
that it will withhold payment from an assistant (or altogether
disqualify her from the program) based on credible allegations of
customer abuse, neglect, or financial exploitation. See App. 55;
Brief for Respondent Quinn 3, 50; Ill. Dept. of Human Servs.,
Customer Guidance for Managing Providers 8, online at
http:// www. dhs.state.il.us / OneNetLibrary / 27897 / documents /Brochures/4365.pdf
(as visited June 27, 2014, and available in Clerk of Court’s
case file).[2]

															     Given that set of
arrangements, Abood should control. Although a customer can manage
his own relationship with a caregiver, Illinois has sole authority
over every workforce-wide term and condition of the
assistants’ employment—in other words, the issues most
likely to be the subject of collective bargaining. In particular,
if an assistant wants an increase in pay, she must ask the State,
not the individual customer. So too if she wants better benefits.
(Although the majority notes that caregivers do not receive
statutory retirement and health insurance benefits, see ante, at
22, that is irrelevant: Collective bargaining between the State and
SEIU has focused on benefits from the beginning, and has produced
state-funded health insurance for personal assistants.) And because
it is Illinois that would sit down at a bargaining table to address
those subjects—the ones that matter most to employees and so
most affect workforce stability—the State’s stake in a
fair-share provision is the same as in Abood. Here too, the State
has an interest in promoting effective operations by negotiating
with an equitably and ade-quately funded exclusive bargaining agent
over termsand conditions of employment. That Illinois has delegated
to program customers various individualized employment issues makes
no difference to those state interests. If anything, as the State
has contended, the dispersion of employees across numerous
workplaces and the absence of day-to-day state supervision provides
an additional reason for Illinois to want to “address
concerns common to all personal assistants” by negotiating
with a single representative: Only in that way, the State explains,
can the employees effectively convey their concerns about
employment under the Rehabilitation Program. App. to Pet. for Cert.
46a (Exec. Order No. 2003–8).

															     Indeed, the history of
that program forcefully demonstrates Illinois’s interest in
bargaining with an adequately funded exclusive bargaining
agent—that is, the interest Abood recognized and protected.
Workforce shortages and high turnover have long plagued in-home
care programs, principally because of low wages and benefits. That
labor instability lessens the quality of care, which in turn,
forces disabled persons into institutions and (massively)
in-creases costs to the State. See Brief for Paraprofessional
Healthcare Institute as Amicus Curiae 16–26; Brief for State
of California et al. as Amici Curiae 4–5. The individual
customers are powerless to address those systemic issues; rather,
the State—because of its control over workforce-wide terms of
employment—is the single employer that can do so. And here
Illinois determined (as have nine other States, see Brief for
Respondent SEIU 51, n. 14) that negotiations with an exclusive
representative offered the best chance to set the Rehabilitation
Program on firmer footing. Because of that bargaining, as the
majority acknowledges, home-care assistants have nearly doubled
their wages in less than 10 years, obtained state-funded health
insurance, and benefited from better training and workplace safety
measures. See ante, at 32–33; Brief for Respondent Quinn 7;
App. 44–48. The State, in return, has obtained guarantees
against strikes or other work stoppages, see id., at 55—and
most important, believes it has gotten a more stable workforce
providing higher qual-ity care, thereby avoiding the costs
associated with institu-tionalization. Illinois’s experience
thus might serve as a veritable poster child for Abood—not,
as the majority would have it, some strange extension of that
decision.

															     It is not altogether
easy to understand why the majority thinks what it thinks:
Today’s opinion takes the tack of throwing everything against
the wall in the hope that something might stick. A vain hope, as it
turns out. Even once disentangled, the various strands of the
majority’s reasoning do not distinguish this case from
Abood.

															     Parts of the
majority’s analysis appear to rest on the simple presence of
another employer, possessing significant responsibilities, in
addition to the State. See ante, at 20–22, 24. But this
Court’s cases provide no warrant for holding that joint
public employees are not real ones. To the contrary, the Court has
made clear that the government’s wide latitude to manage its
workforce extends to such employees, even as against their First
Amendment claims. The government’s prerogative as employer,
we recently explained, turns not on the “formal status”
of an employee, but on the nature of the public “interests at
stake”; we therefore rejected the view that “the
Government’s broad authority in managing its affairs should
apply with diminished force” to contract employees whose
“direct employment relationship” is with another party.
NASA v. Nelson, 562 U. S. ___, ___ (2011) (slip op., at
14–15). And indeed, we reached the same result (in language
that might have been written for this case) when such employees
“d[id] not work at the government’s workplace[,] d[id]
not interact daily with government officers and employees,”
and were not subject to the government’s “day-to-day
control” over “the details of how work is done.”
Board of Comm’rs, Wabaunsee Cty. v. Umbehr, 518 U. S.
668 –677 (1996).[3] Here,
as I have explained, Illinois’s interests as an employer and
program administrator are substantial, see supra, at 4–6; and
accordingly, the State’s sharing of employment
responsibilities with another party should not matter.[4]

															     Next, the majority
emphasizes that the Illinois Legislature deemed personal assistants
“public employees” solely “for the purposes of
coverage under the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act” and
not for other purposes, like granting statutory benefits and
incurring vicarious liability in tort. Ill. Comp. Stat., ch. 20,
§2405/3(f) (West 2012); see ante, at 6, 22–23; but cf.
Martin v. Illinois, 2005 WL 2267733, *5–*8 (Ill.
Workers’ Compensation Comm’n, July 26, 2005) (treating
caregivers as public employees for purposes of workers’
compensation).[5] But once
again, it is hard to see why that fact is relevant. The majority
must agree (this Court has made the point often enough) that
“state law labels,” adopted for a whole host of
reasons, do not determine whether the State is acting as an
employer for purposes of the First Amendment. E.g., Umbehr, 518
U. S., at 679. The true issue is whether Illinois has a
sufficient stake in, and control over, the petitioners’ terms
and conditions of employment to implicate Abood’s rationales
and trigger its application. And once more, that question has a
clear answer: As I have shown, Illinois negotiates all
workforce-wide terms of the caregivers’ employment as part of
its effort to promote labor stability and effectively administer
its Rehabilitation Program. See supra, at 6–8. As contrasted
to that all-important fact, whether Illinois incurs vicarious
liability for caregivers’ torts, see ante, at 23, or grants
them certain statutory benefits like health insurance, see ante, at
22, is beside the point. And still more so because the State and
SEIU can bargain over most such matters; for example, as I have
noted, the two have reached agreement on providing state-funded
health coverage, see supra, at 7.

															     Further, the majority
claims, “the scope of bargaining” that the SEIU may
conduct for caregivers is “circumscribed” because the
customer has authority over individualized employment matters like
hiring and firing. Ante, at 23–25. But (at the risk of
sounding like a broken record) so what? Most States limit the scope
of permissible bargaining in the public sector—often ruling
out of bounds similar, individualized decisions. See R. Kearney
& P. Mareschal, Labor Relations in the Public Sector
75–77 (5th ed. 2014) (“The great majority of state
statutes” exclude “certain matters from the scope of
negotiations,” including, for example, personnel decisions
respecting “hiring, promotion, and dismissal”); Note,
Developments in the Law—Public Employment, 97 Harv. L. Rev.
1611, 1684 (1984) (Many state statutes “explicitly limit[ ]
the scope of bargaining, typically by excluding decisions on
personnel management”). Here, the scope of collective
bargaining—over wages and benefits, as well as basic duties
and qualifications—more than suffices to implicate the state
interests justifying Abood. Those are the matters, after all, most
likely to concern employees generally and thus most likely to
affect the nature and quality of the State’s workforce. The
idea that Abood applies only if a union can bargain with the State
over every issue comes from nowhere and relates to nothing in that
decision—and would revolutionize public labor law.

															     Finally, the majority
places weight on an idiosyncrasy of Illinois law: that a regulation
requires uniform wages for all personal assistants. See ante, at
25. According to the majority, that means Abood’s free-rider
rationale “has little force in the situation now before
us”: Even absent the duty of fair representation (requiring
the union to work on behalf of all employees, members and
non-members alike, see infra, at 22–23), the union could not
bargain one employee’s wages against another’s. Ante,
at 26.[6] But that idea is
doubly wrong. First, the Illinois regulation applies only to wages.
It does not cover, for example, the significant health benefits
that the SEIU has obtained for in-home caregivers, or any other
benefits for which it may bargain in the future. Nor does the
regulation prevent preferential participation in the grievance
process, which governs all disputes between Illinois and caregivers
arising from the terms of their agreement. See n. 2, supra.
And second, even if the regulation covered everything subject to
collective bargaining, the majority’s reasoning is a
non-sequitur. All the regulation would do then is serve as
suspenders to the duty of fair representation’s belt: That
Illinois has two ways to ensure that the results of collective
bargaining redound to the benefit of all employees serves to
compound, rather than mitigate, the union’s free-rider
problem.

															     As far as I can tell,
that covers the majority’s reasons for distinguishing this
case from Abood. And even when considered in combination, as the
majority does, they do not succeed. What makes matters still worse
is the perverse result of the majority’s decision: It
penalizes the State for giving disabled persons some control over
their own care. If Illinois had structured the program, as it could
have, to centralize every aspect of the employment relationship, no
question could possibly have arisen about Abood’s
application. Nothing should change because the State chose to
respect the dignity and independence of program beneficiaries by
allowing them to select and discharge, as well as supervise
day-to-day, their own caregivers. A joint employer remains an
employer, and here, as I have noted, Illinois kept authority over
all workforce-wide terms of employment—the very issues most
likely to be the subject of collective bargaining. The State thus
should also retain the prerogative—as part of its effort to
“ensure efficient and effective delivery of personal care
services”—to require all employees to contribute fairly
to their bargaining agent. App. to Pet. for Cert. 45a (Exec. Order
No. 2003–8).

															II

															     Perhaps recognizing
the difficulty of plausibly distinguishing this case from Abood,
the petitioners raised a more fundamental question: the continued
viability of Abood as to all public employees, even what the
majority calls “full-fledged” ones. Ante, at 9. That
issue occupied the brunt of the briefing and argument in this
Court. See, e.g., Brief for Petitioners 16–24; Brief for
Respondent SEIU 15–44; Brief for Respondent Quinn
15–29; Brief for United States as Amicus Curiae 14–28;
Tr. of Oral Arg. 5–21, 32–39, 42–47, 50–60.
The majority declines the petitioners’ request to overturn
precedent—and rightly so: This Court does not have anything
close to the special justification necessary to overturn Abood.
Still, the majority cannot restrain itself from providing a
critique of that decision, suggesting that it might have resolved
the case differently in the first instance. That dicta is off-base:
Abood corresponds precisely to this Court’s overall framework
for assessing public employees’ First Amendment claims. To
accept that framework, while holding Abood at arms-length, is to
wish for a sui generis rule, lacking in justification, applying
exclusively to union fees.

															A

															     This Court’s
view of stare decisis makes plain why the majority cannot—and
did not—overturn Abood. That doctrine, we have stated, is a
“foundation stone of the rule of law.” Michigan v. Bay
Mills Indian Community, 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op.,
at 15). It “promotes the evenhanded, predictable, and
consistent development of legal principles [and] fosters reliance
on judicial decisions.” Payne v. Tennessee, 501 U. S.
808, 827 (1991) . As important, it “contributes to the actual
and perceived integrity of the judicial process,” ibid., by
ensuring that decisions are “founded in the law rather than
in the proclivities of individuals,” Vasquez v. Hillery, 474
U. S. 254, 265 (1986) . For all those reasons, this Court has
always held that “any departure” from precedent
“demands special justification.” Arizona v. Rumsey, 467
U. S. 203, 212 (1984) .

															     And Abood is not just
any precedent: It is entrenched in a way not many decisions are.
Over nearly four decades, we have cited Abood favorably numerous
times, and we have repeatedly affirmed and applied its core
distinction between the costs of collective bargaining (which the
government can demand its employees share) and those of political
activities (which it cannot). See, e.g., Locke v. Karass, 555
U. S. 207 –214 (2009); Lehnert v. Ferris Faculty Assn.,
500 U. S. 507, 519 (1991) ; Teachers v. Hudson, 475 U. S.
292 –302 (1986); Ellis v. Railway Clerks, 466 U. S. 435
–457 (1984). Reviewing those decisions, this Court
recently—and unanimously—called the Abood rule “a
general First Amendment principle.” Locke, 555 U. S.,
213–215. And indeed, the Court has relied on that rule in
deciding cases involving compulsory fees outside the labor
context—which today’s majority reaffirms as good law,
see ante, at 37–39. See, e.g., Keller v. State Bar of Cal.,
496 U. S. 1 –17 (1990) (state bar fees); Board of
Regents of Univ. of Wis. System v. Southworth, 529 U. S. 217
–232 (2000) (public university student fees); Glickman v.
Wileman Brothers & Elliott, Inc., 521 U. S. 457 –473
(1997) (commercial advertising assessments). Not until two years
ago, in Knox v. Service Employees, 567 U. S. ___ (2012), did
the Court so much as whisper (there without the benefit of briefing
or argument, see id., at ___ (Sotomayor, J., concurring in
judgment) (slip op., at 1–6)) that it had any misgivings
about Abood.

															     Perhaps still more
important, Abood has created enormous reliance interests. More than
20 States have enacted statutes authorizing fair-share provisions,
and on that basis public entities of all stripes have entered into
multi-year contracts with unions containing such clauses.
“Stare decisis has added force,” we have held, when
overturning a precedent would require “States to reexamine
[and amend] their statutes.” Hilton v. South Carolina Public
Railways Comm’n, 502 U. S. 197 –203 (1991). And on
top of that, “[c]onsiderations in favor of stare decisis are
at their acme in cases involving property and contract
rights.” Payne, 501 U. S., at 828. Here, governments and
unions across the country have entered into thousands of contracts
involving millions of employees in reliance on Abood. Reliance
interests do not come any stronger.

															     The majority’s
criticisms of Abood do not remotely defeat those powerful reasons
for adhering to the decision. The special justifications needed to
reverse an opinion must go beyond demonstrations (much less
assertions) that it was wrong; that is the very point of stare
decisis. And the majority’s critique extends no further. It
is mostly just a catalog of errors Abood supposedly
committed—reproaches that could have been leveled as easily
40 years ago as today. Only the idea that Abood did not
“anticipate” or “foresee” the difficulties
of distinguishing between collective bargaining and political
activities, see ante, at 18–19, might be thought different.
But in fact, Abood predicted precisely those issues. See 431
U. S., at 236 (“There will, of course, be difficult
problems in drawing lines between collective-bargaining
. . . and ideological activities”). It simply
disagreed with today’s majority about whether in this
context, as in many others, lines that are less than pristine are
still worth using. And in any event, the majority much overstates
the difficulties of classifying union expenditures. The
Court’s most recent decision on the subject unanimously
resolved the single issue that had divided lower courts. See Locke,
555 U. S., at 217–221. So it is not surprising that the
majority fails to offer any concrete examples of thorny
classification problems. If the kind of hand-wringing about blurry
lines that the majority offers were enough to justify breaking with
precedent, we might have to discard whole volumes of the U. S.
Reports.

															     And the majority says
nothing to the contrary: It does not pretend to have the requisite
justifications to overrule Abood. Readers of today’s decision
will know that Abood does not rank on the majority’s top-ten
list of favorite precedents—and that the majority could not
restrain itself from saying (and saying and saying) so. Yet they
will also know that the majority could not, even after receiving
full-dress briefing and argument, come up with reasons anywhere
near sufficient to reverse the decision. Much has gone wrong in
today’s ruling, but this has not: Save for an unfortunate
hiving off of ostensibly “partial-public” employees,
ante, at 28, Abood remains the law.

															B

															     And even apart from
stare decisis, that result is as it should be; indeed, it is the
only outcome that makes sense in the context of our caselaw. In
numerous cases decided over many decades, this Court has addressed
the government’s authority to adopt measures limiting
expression in the capacity not of sovereign but of employer. Abood
fits—fits hand-in-glove—with all those cases, in both
reasoning and result. Were that rule not in place, our law
respecting public employees’ speech rights would contain a
serious anomaly—a different legal standard (and not a good
one) applying exclusively to union fees.

															     This Court has long
acknowledged that the government has wider constitutional latitude
when it is acting as employer than as sovereign. See Engquist v.
Oregon Dept. of Agriculture, 553 U. S. 591, 598 (2008)
(“[T]here is a crucial difference, with respect to
constitutional analysis, between the government exercising the
power to regulate . . . and the government acting
. . . to manage [its] internal operation” (internal
quotation marks omitted)). “Time and again our cases have
recognized that the Government has a much freer hand” in
dealing with its employees than with other citizens. NASA, 562
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 12). We have explained that
“[t]he government’s interest in achieving its goals as
effectively and efficiently as possible is elevated” in the
public workplace—that the government must have the ability to
decide how to manage its employees in order to best provide
services to the public. Engquist, 553 U. S., at 598. In
effect, we have tried to place the government-qua-employer in a
similar (though not identical) position to the private employer,
recognizing that both face comparable challenges in maintaining a
productive workforce. The result is that a public employee
“must accept certain limitations on his or her
freedom.” Garcetti v. Ceballos, 547 U. S. 410, 418
(2006) . “[A]lthough government employees do not lose their
constitutional rights when they accept their positions, those
rights must be balanced against the realities of the employment
context.” Engquist, 553 U. S., at 600.

															     Further, this Court has
developed and applied those principles in numerous cases involving
First Amendment claims. “Government employers, like private
employers,” we have explained, “need a significant
degree of control over their employees’ words” in order
to “efficient[ly] provi[de] public services.” Garcetti,
547 U. S., at 418. Accordingly, we have devised methods for
distinguishing between speech restrictions reflecting the kind of
concerns private employers often hold (which are constitutional)
and those exploiting the employment relationship to restrict
employees’ speech as private citizens (which are not). Most
notably, the Court uses a two-step test originating in Pickering v.
Board of Ed. of Township High School Dist. 205, Will Cty., 391
U. S. 563 (1968) . First, if the expression at issue does not
relate to “a matter of public concern,” the employee
“has no First Amendment cause of action.” Garcetti, 547
U. S., at 418. Second, even if the speech addresses a matter
of public concern, a court is to determine whether the government
“had an adequate justification” for its action, ibid.,
by balancing “the interests of the [employee] as a citizen
. . . and the interest of the State, as an employer, in
promoting the efficiency of the public services it performs through
its employees,” Pickering, 391 U. S., at 568.

															     Abood is of a piece
with all those decisions; and indeed, its core analysis mirrors
Pickering’s. The Abood Court recognized that fair-share
provisions function as prerequisites to employment, assessed to
cover the costs of representing employees in collective bargaining.
Private employers, Abood noted, often established such employment
conditions, to ensure adequate funding of an exclusive bargaining
agent, and thus to promote labor stability. Abood acknowledged
(contrary to the majority’s statement, see ante, at 17)
certain “differences in the nature of collective bargaining
in the public and private sectors.” 431 U. S., at 227;
see id., at 227–229. But the Court concluded that the
government, acting as employer, should have the same prerogative as
a private business in deciding how best to negotiate with its
employees over such matters as wages and benefits. See id., at 229
(“[T]here can be no principled basis for”
distinguishing between a public and private employer’s view
that a fair-share clause will promote “labor
stability”). At the same time, the Court recognized the need
for some mechanism to ensure that the government could not leverage
its power as employer to impinge on speech its employees undertook
as citizens on matters of public import. See id., at
234–236.

															     The Court struck the
appropriate balance by drawing a line, corresponding to
Pickering’s, between fees for collective bargaining and those
for political activities. On the one side, Abood decided, speech
within the employment relationship about pay and working conditions
pertains mostly to private concerns and implicates the
government’s interests as employer; thus, the government
could compel fair-share fees for collective bargaining. On the
other side, speech in political campaigns relates to matters of
public concern and has no bearing on the government’s
interest in structuring its workforce; thus, compelled fees for
those activities are forbidden. In that way, the law surrounding
fair-share provisions coheres with the law relating to public
employees’ speech generally. Or, said otherwise, an anomaly
in the government’s regulation of its workforce would arise
in Abood’s absence: Public employers could then pursue all
policies, except this single one, reasonably designed to manage
personnel and enhance the effectiveness of their programs.

															     The majority’s
critique of Abood principally goes astray by deeming all this
irrelevant. This Court, the majority insists, has never “seen
Abood as based on Pickering balancing.” Ante, at 34. But to
rely on Abood’s failure to cite Pickering more often, as the
majority does, see ante, at 34, n. 26, is to miss the essential
point. Although stemming from different historic antecedents, the
two decisions addressed variants of the same issue: the extent of
the government’s power to adopt employment conditions
affecting expression. And as just discussed, the twogave strikingly
parallel answers, providing a coherent framework to adjudicate the
constitutionality of those regulations.

															     To the extent the
majority engages with that framework, its analysis founders at the
first step, in assessing the First Amendment value of the speech at
issue here. A running motif of the majority opinion is that
collective bargaining in the public sector raises significant
questions about the level of government spending. Ante, at
17–18 and n. 7, 36 and nn. 28–29. By
financing the SEIU’s collective bargaining over wages and
benefits, the majority suggests, in-home caregivers—whether
they wish to or not—take one side in a debate about those
issues.

															     But that view of the
First Amendment interests at stake blinks decades’ worth of
this Court’s precedent. Our decisions (tracing from Pickering
as well as Abood) teach that internal workplace speech about public
employees’ wages, benefits, and such—that is, the
prosaic stuff of collective bargaining—does not become speech
of “public concern” just because those employment terms
may have broader consequence. To the contrary, we have made clear
that except in narrow circumstances we will not allow an employee
to make a “federal constitutional issue” out of basic
“employment matters, including working conditions, pay,
discipline, promotions, leave, vacations, and terminations.”
Borough of Duryea v. Guarnieri, 564 U. S. ___, ___ (2011)
(slip op., at 10); see Umbehr, 518 U. S., at 675 (public
employees’ “speech on merely private employment matters
is unprotected”). Indeed, even Abood’s original
detractors conceded that an employee’s interest in expressing
views, within the workplace context, about “narrowly defined
economic issues [like] salaries and pension benefits” is
“relatively insignificant” and “weak.” 431
U. S., at 263, n. 16 (Powell, J., concurring in
judgment). (Those Justices saved their fire for teachers’
speech relating to education policy. See ibid.) And nowhere has the
Court ever suggested, as the majority does today, see ante, at
35–36 and n. 28, that if a certain dollar amount is at stake
(but how much, exactly?), the constitutional treatment of an
employee’s expression becomes any different.

															     Consider an analogy,
not involving union fees: Suppose an employee violates a government
employer’s work rules by demanding, at various inopportune
times and places, higher wages for both himself and his co-workers
(which, of course, will drive up public spending). The government
employer disciplines the employee, and he brings a First Amendment
claim. Would the Court consider his speech a matter of public
concern under Pickering? I cannot believe it would, and indeed the
petitioners’ own counsel joins me in that view. He maintained
at oral argument that such speech would concern merely an
“internal proprietary matter,” thus allowing the
employer to take disciplinary action. Tr. of Oral Arg. 6, 10. If
the majority thinks otherwise, government entities across the
country should prepare themselves for unprecedented limitations on
their ability to regulate their workforces. But again, I doubt they
need to worry, because this Court has never come close to holding
that any matter of public employment affecting public spending
(which is to say most such matters) becomes for that reason alone
an issue of public concern. (And on the off-chance that both the
petitioners and I are wrong on that score, I am doubly confident
that the government would prevail under Pickering’s balancing
test.)

															     I can see no reason to
treat the expressive interests of workers objecting to payment of
union fees, like the petitioners here, as worthy of greater
consideration. The subject matter of the speech is the same: wages
and benefits for public employees. Or to put the point more fully:
In both cases (mine and the real one), the employer is sanctioning
employees for choosing either to say or not to say something
respecting their terms and conditions of employment. Of course, in
my hypothetical, the employer is stopping the employee from
speaking, whereas in this or any other case involving union fees,
the employer is forcing the employee to support such expression.
But I am sure the majority would agree that that difference does
not make a difference—in other words, that the
“difference between compelled speech and compelled
silence” is “without constitutional
significance.” Riley v. National Federation of Blind of N.
C., Inc., 487 U. S. 781, 796 (1988) . Hence, in analyzing the
kind of expression involved in this case, Abood corresponds to
Pickering (and vice versa)—with each permitting a government
to regulate such activity in aid of managing its workforce to
provide public services.

															     Perhaps, though, the
majority’s skepticism about Abood comes from a different
source: its failure to fully grasp the government’s interest
in bargaining with an adequately funded exclusive bargaining
representative. One of the ma-jority’s criticisms of Abood,
stated still more prominently in Knox, 567 U. S., at ___ (slip
op., at 10–11), goes something as follows. Abood (so the
majority says) wrongly saw a government’s interest in
bargaining with an exclusive representative as “inextricably
linked” with a fair-share agreement. Ante, at 31; see ante,
at 20. A State, the majority (a bit grudgingly) acknowledges, may
well have reasons to bargain with a single agent for all employees;
and without a fair-share agreement, that union’s activities
will benefit employees who do not pay dues. Yet “[s]uch
free-rider arguments,” the majority avers, “are
generally insufficient to overcome First Amendment
objections.” Ante, at 8–9 (quoting Knox, 567
U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10–11)). In the
majority’s words: “A host of organizations advocate on
behalf of the interests of persons fallingwithin an occupational
group, and many of these groups are quite successful even though
they are dependent on voluntary contributions.” Ante, at
33–34.

															     But Abood and a host of
our other opinions have explained and relied on an essential
distinction between unions and special-interest organizations
generally. See, e.g., Abood, 431 U. S., at 221–222 and
n. 15; Communications Workers v. Beck, 487 U. S. 735, 750
(1988) ; Machinists v. Street, 367 U. S. 740, 762 (1961) . The
law compels unions to represent—and represent
fairly—every worker in a bargaining unit, regardless whether
they join or contribute to the union. That creates a collective
action problem of far greater magnitude than in the typical
interest group, because the union cannot give any special
advantages to its own backers. In such a circumstance, not just
those who oppose but those who favor a union have an economic
incentive to withhold dues; only altruism or loyalty—as
against financial self-interest—can explain their support.
Hence arises the legal rule countenancing fair-share agreements: It
ensures that a union will receive adequate funding, notwithstanding
its legally imposed disability—and so that a government
wishing to bargain with an exclusive representative will have a
viable counterpart.

															     As is often the case,
Justice Scalia put the point best:

															“Where the state imposes upon the
union a duty to deliver services, it may permit the union to demand
reimbursement for them; or, looked at from the other end, where the
state creates in the nonmembers a legal entitlement from the union,
it may compel them to pay the cost. The ‘compelling state
interest’ that justifies this constitutional rule is not
simply elimination of the inequity arising from the fact that some
union activity redounds to the benefit of ‘free-riding’
nonmembers; private speech often furthers the interests of
nonspeakers, and that does not alone empower the state to compel
the speech to be paid for. What is distinctive, however, about the
‘free riders’ [in unions] . . . is that
. . . the law requires the union to carry
[them]—indeed, requires the union to go out of its way to
benefit [them], even at the expense of its other
interests. . . . [T]he free ridership (if it were
left to be that) would be not incidental but calculated, not
imposed by circumstances but mandated by government decree.”
Lehnert, 500 U. S., at 556 (opinion concurring in judgment in
part and dissenting in part).

															And in other parts of its opinion, the majority
itself mimics the point, thus recognizing the core rationale of
Abood: What justifies the agency fee, the majority notes, is
“the fact that the State compels the union to promote and
protect the interests of nonmembers.” Ante, at 25; see ante,
at 27, n. 18. Exactly right; indeed, that is as clear a
one-sentence account of Abood’s free-rider rationale as
appears in this Court’s decisions.

															     Still, the majority too
quickly says, it has no worries in this case: Given that
Illinois’s caregivers voted to unionize, “it may be
presumed that a high percentage of [them] became union members and
are willingly paying union dues.” Ante, at 33. But in fact
nothing of the sort may be so presumed, given that union supporters
(no less than union detractors) have an economic incentive to free
ride. See supra, at 22–23. The federal workforce, on which
the majority relies, see ante, at 31, provides a case in point.
There many fewer employees pay dues than have voted for a union to
represent them.[7] And why,
after all, should that endemic free-riding be surprising? Does the
majority think that public employees are immune from basic
principles of economics? If not, the majority can have no basis for
thinking that absent a fair-share clause, a union can attract
sufficient dues to adequately support its functions.

															     This case in fact
offers a prime illustration of how a fair-share agreement may serve
important government interests. Recall that Illinois decided that
collective bargaining with an exclusive representative of in-home
caregivers would enable it to provide improved services through its
Rehabilitation Program. See supra, at 7–8. The State thought
such bargaining would enable it to attract a better and more stable
workforce to serve disabled patients, preventing their
institutionalization and thereby decreasing total state
expenditures. The majority does not deny the State’s
legitimate interest in choosing to negotiate with an exclusive
bargaining agent, in service of administering an effective program.
See ante, at 32–33. But the majority does deny Illinois the
means it reasonably deemed appropriate to effectuate that
policy—a fair-share provision ensuring that the union has the
funds necessary to carry out its responsibilities on behalf of
in-home caregivers. The majority does so against the weight of all
precedent, and based on “empirical assumption[s],”
ante, at 20, lacking any foundation. Abood got this matter right;
the majority gets it wrong: Illinois has a more than sufficient
interest, in managing its workforce and administering the
Rehabilitation Program, to require employees to pay a fair share of
a union’s costs of collective bargaining.

															III

															     For many decades,
Americans have debated the pros and cons of right-to-work laws and
fair-share requirements. All across the country and continuing to
the present day, citizens have engaged in passionate argument about
the issue and have made disparate policy choices. The petitioners
in this case asked this Court to end that discussion for the entire
public sector, by overruling Abood and thus imposing a
right-to-work regime for all government employees. The good news
out of this case is clear: The majority declined that radical
request. The Court did not, as the petitioners wanted, deprive
every state and local government, in the management of their
employees and programs, of the tool that many have thought
necessary and appropriate to make collective bargaining work.

															     The bad news is just as
simple: The majority robbed Illinois of that choice in
administering its in-home care program. For some 40 years, Abood
has struck a stable balance—consistent with this
Court’s general framework for assessing public
employees’ First Amendment claims—between those
employees’ rights and government entities’ interests in
managing their workforces. The majority today misapplies Abood,
which properly should control this case. Nothing separates, for
purposes of that decision, Illinois’s personal assistants
from any other public employees. The balance Abood struck thus
should have defeated the petitioners’ demand to invalidate
Illinois’s fair-share agreement. I respectfully dissent.

Notes
1
 The majority describes
the petitioners as “partial” or “quasi”
public employees, a label of its own devising. ,at 28. But
employment law has a real name—joint employees—for
workers subject at once to the authority of two or more employers
(a not uncommon phenomenon). See, ,29 CFR §791.2 (2013); v. ,
. And the Department of Labor recently explained that in-home care
programs, if structured like Illinois’s, establish joint
employment relationships. See 78 Fed. Reg. 60483–60484
(2013).
2
 Indeed, pursuant to the
grievance procedure in the present collective bargaining agreement,
the SEIU obtained an arbitration award reversing the State’s
decision to disqualify an assistant from the program for such
reasons. See Brief for Respondent SEIU 7 (citing Doc. No.
32–5 in Case No. 10–cv–02477 (ND
Ill.)).
3
 The majority claims that
the Court developed this law “for use in other
contexts,” , at 28–29, n. 20but that is true only in
the narrowest sense. The decisions I cite dealt with claims that
joint or contract employees made against the government. The only
difference is that those suits challenged different restrictions on
the employees’ expressive activities.
4
 In a related argument,
the majority frets that if extends to the joint employees here, a
“host of workers who receive payments from a governmental
entity for some sort of service would be candidates for inclusion
within ’s reach.” , at 28. But as I have just shown,
this Court has not allowed such worries about line-drawing to limit
the government’s authority over joint and contract employees
in the past. And rightly so, because whatever close cases may arise
at the margin (there always are some), the essential distinction
between such employees and mere recipients of government funding is
not hard to maintain. Consider again the combination of things
Illinois does here: set wages, provide benefits, administer
payroll, withhold taxes, set minimum qualifications, specify terms
of standard contracts, develop individualized service plans, fund
orientation and training, facilitate annual reviews, and resolve
certain grievances. That combination of functions places the
petitioners so securely on one side of the boundary between public
employees and mere recipients of public funding as to justify
deferral of line-drawing angst to another case.
5
 As the opinion’s
quadruple repetition of the words “appear” and
“apparently” suggests, , at 22–23, the majority
is mostly guessing as to in-home caregivers’ eligibility for
various state programs.
6
 The majority also
suggests in this part of its opinion that even if the union had
latitude to demand higher wages only for its own supporters, it
would not do so. See , at 27, n. 18. But why not? A rational
union, in the absence of any legal obligation to the contrary,
would almost surely take that approach to bargaining.
7
 See, , R. Kearney &
P. Mareschal, Labor Relations in the Public Sector 26 (5th ed.
2014) (“[T]he largest federal union, the American Federation
of Government Employees (AFGE), represented approximately 650,000
bargaining unit members in 2012, but less than half of them were
dues-paying members. All told, out of the approximately 1.9 million
full-time federal wage system (blue-collar) and General Schedule
(white-collar) employees who are represented by a collective
bargaining contract, only one-third actually belong to the union
and pay dues”).


