::SCDB_caseID:: 1809-004
::decision_cite:: 9 U.S. 11 (1809)
::decision_name::  Henderson v. Moore
::decision_year:: 1809
::opinion_author:: 
::opinion_type:: 
::opinion:: 

U.S. Supreme Court
Henderson v. Moore, 9 U.S. 5 Cranch 11
11 (1809)
Henderson v. Moore
9 U.S. (5 Cranch) 11
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT
COURT
OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA
Syllabus

															The refusal of the court below to grant a new trial is not
error.

															Upon the plea of payment to an action of debt upon a bond
conditioned to pay five hundred dollars, evidence may be received
of the payment of a smaller sum with an acknowledgment by the
plaintiff that it was in full of all demands, and from such
evidence, if uncontradicted, the jury may and ought to infer
payment of the whole.

															On the plea of payment to an action of debt upon a bond, for
$500, dated in 1781, the defendant offered evidence to prove that
in the year 1797 the plaintiff acknowledged that he had received of
the money of the defendant to the amount of about $1,000, of one
Willoughby Tibbs, out of the amount of a decree which the defendant
had obtained against him for $3,000, and that the money which he so
received was in full of all his claims against the defendant, the
plaintiff having paid for the defendant several sums of money.
There was no settlement made nor any receipt given.

															"Whereupon the plaintiff prayed the court to instruct the jury
that if from the evidence it should be satisfied that the bond had
not been fully paid off, no declaration of the plaintiff 'that his
claims against the defendant were all satisfied' would be a bar to
his recovery in this action, which instruction

															Page 9 U. S. 12

															the court refused to give as prayed, but directed the jury that
if it should be satisfied by the evidence that the defendant, in
the year 1797, paid the plaintiff a sum of money less than the
amount mentioned in the condition of the bond, which the plaintiff
at that time acknowledged to be in full satisfaction of all his
claims against the defendant, such payment and such acknowledgment
are competent evidence upon the plea of payment, and that the jury
may and ought to presume therefrom that the whole sum mentioned in
the condition of the said bond has been paid to the plaintiff
unless such presumption be repelled by other evidence in the cause,
to which refusal and instruction the plaintiff excepted."

															The verdict being for the defendant, his counsel moved the court
for a new trial, and grounded his motion upon sundry affidavits
tending to prove that the whole amount of the bond remained due to
the plaintiff, and that he was surprised by unexpected testimony at
the trial. But the court refused to grant a new trial.

															Two errors were assigned.

															1. That the court below refused a new trial.

															2. That the court ought to have given the instruction to the
jury as prayed by the plaintiff, and ought not to have given the
direction which they did.

															MR. CHIEF JUSTICE MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the Court
that there was no error in the opinion of the court below. A part
of the money due on the bond

															Page 9 U. S. 13

															might have been paid before, and such an acknowledgment, upon
receipt of a sum smaller than the amount of the condition of the
bond, was good evidence upon the plea of payment.

															Judgment affirmed with costs.

